ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 16th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Franc Kramar, Franc Rosec, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Matej Tašner Vatovec from 16:00 on, Luka Mesec from 14:00 on, Dušan Verbič, Jerca Korče, Aljaž Kovacič, Nada Brinovšek, Eva Irgl, Carmen Furman, Branislav Rajić, Franc Trček from 10 a.m. to 14.30 and Predrag Baković. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Industrial Property Act within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Eva Štravs Podlogar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, good morning! Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for an Act amending and supplementing the Industrial Property Act transposes the provisions of Directive 2015/2436 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2015 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks into the Slovenian legal order. The Directive was adopted in order to harmonise national laws and procedural rules in the field of trade marks with those already applicable to the registration of EU trade marks registered by the European Union Office for Intellectual Property. Since national registration systems will be more similar to the European Union trade mark registration system registered by the European Union Intellectual Property Office, companies will be more accessible and predictable throughout the European Union and will be better placed to register their trademarks. The most important innovations brought by the proposal for a law in order to transpose the provisions of the Directive are: a broader definition of the characters which may make up a mark, because there is no longer a requirement that the mark can be graphically presented, which will allow the registration of new types of brands such as multimedia brands; in particular, there are absolute and relative reasons for rejecting the mark derived from the current ones, which will increase the predictability of the registration procedure for the notifiers. The same as before will be checked by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property in each application of the brand for absolute reasons for refusal of the brand under official duty and the relative reasons for refusal of registration only on the basis of opposition from the holder of the previously acquired brand or certain other rights. The Industrial Property Act already regulates a collective brand which differs from the usual brand by applying it in accordance with the rules laid down by the holder of the collective mark to several persons who are members of the collective mark holder. The provisions of the Industrial Property Act comply with all the mandatory provisions on collective trade mark laid down in the Directive. The draft law regulates new institutes linked to the use of the brand. If the holder of the mark does not use it, this has consequences for him, such as the annulment of the brand for non-use. Compared to the current regulation, it is new that the five-year period of non-use of the mark is taken into account in the procedures for detecting infringements of trademark rights as a defence in the procedures for establishing the invalidity of the mark and as a defence in the proceedings against the registration of the registered mark. The solutions proposed will ensure that trademark rights are enjoyed by those who use their brand. Those who do not use their brands and only have them to interfere with others will no longer be able to successfully refer to such a brand because it does not perform its primary function – the labelling of goods and services. The Slovenian Register of Stamps will therefore be cleaned over time, as it will leave only the brands used by their holders. Some other, less difficult amendments and legislative additions, such as harmonisation with the Law on Offences and the determination of fines in euro, are also proposed. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the solutions proposed are good, so please accept the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Gregor Peric for the presentation of the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, nice greetings to all! As it is said, we are on the Committee on the Economy at its 7th session. 2. 2020 as a parent labour body were considered by the Government's draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Industrial Property Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 53rd session. 12. 2020 has decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property and Legal Services participated in the meeting of the committee that followed. Amendments to the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus’ parliamentary groups were tabled in the course of the course of business to 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 16, 21, 22, 24, 26, 30, 31, 35, 37, 40 and 41. 1. 2020 and amendments to Articles 11 and 31 of the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus. 2. 2020. I will not repeat the debate by the Government or State Secretary Eve Steves Podlogar because, I think, this has summed up very well just now. But I'm going to take a brief look at what is the representative of the Legal and Legal Service of Mags. The Kurent pointed out. That is to say, the fundamental reason for the amendment of the Industrial Property Act is the transposition of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order. In the discussion that followed on from the Committee, colleagues and colleagues from the Levica Group stressed the broader definition of the trade mark that they were detained in this regard, as they consider that the latter could be problematic in terms of allowing for the commercialisation of a wider spectrum of visual or other communication assets which are common property of all. In the SAB Group, it was pointed out that a product or service bearing a trade mark constitutes a competitive advantage on the market over other products or services. However, colleagues from the Desus Group said in particular that it was a relative technical transfer to the Slovenian legal order and that Slovenia was late in doing so. They also stressed that branding is the most important part of the manufacturer’s marketing strategy. Following the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus to the 18 articles, not to mention them because I had already mentioned them, and voted, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them with nine votes in favour and none against. This is about the report, so thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you for your input, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! A trade mark as an economic concept is an important part of the marketing strategy. The seller meets the product-specific product-specific marketing strategy decisions. The development of branded products requires a lot of long-term investment, especially for advertising, market communication and packaging. The ability to design, maintain, protect and highlight a trade mark is probably the most characteristic skill of a professional market. Strong are those companies that have a brand, and this brings loyalty to consumers. The Industrial Property Act contains substantive provisions on the trade mark, registration procedure, brand renewal and maintenance, registration of amendments to the register, judicial protection and enforcement of trademark rights. The purpose of the amendments and additions to the law we are adopting today is to harmonise the provisions of the substantive law of trade marks and the main procedural rules in the field of trade mark registration with the provisions in force in the system of trade marks of the European Union. The trade mark may be the name, expression, shape, symbol or combination of those markings. Its purpose is to identify the product or service and identify the seller or manufacturer. In particular, the brand is the seller's promise to consistently offer customers certain properties, benefits and services. The best brands also provide quality guarantees. According to its message value, the brand is a very complex symbol, since it can communicate up to six meanings: properties, benefits, values, culture, personality and user. The value of the trade mark is thus higher, as far as possible its loyalty, the recognition of the name, the perceived quality, the strong association in relation to the brand itself. The high value of the brand ensures a competitive advantage for the company. The cost of marketing is lower due to the high visibility and loyalty of buyers. The company is more effective in negotiating with distributors and retailers, from which buyers expect to have a brand. Since the brand has a higher perceived quality, the company can charge a higher price than competitors. If the brand has great credibility, it is easier to distribute and more easily expand the company. The main changes and additions to the law that we are adopting today include absolute reasons for refusing or nullifying a trade mark, the relative reasons for rejecting a trade mark, the overall arrangement of the collective mark and the transition to electronic commerce of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property. In the Desus Group, we estimate that in this way the protection of brands will become more attractive at national level, especially from a perspective of a positive impact on the competitiveness and growth of businesses. Amendments and additions to the Industrial Property Act will be supported in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u8	Dearly beloved present, lovely greetings, good day! I believe that many people are gone, but life is still going on. Whenever we adopted draft laws in this mandate, the main purpose of which was to transpose the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly warned that the Government, as a proponent of laws, merely uncritically transposing European directives. This suggests a complete misunderstanding of the content of the law. The users of the law are faced with an expression which the Slovenian legal order does not know. This introduces ambiguities that then inventive lawyers take advantage of in disputed proceedings. The deadline for transposition of the provisions of the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order was 14 January 2019. If I understand correctly, our government can't even rewrite the directive within a period of time, let alone examine the content and adapt it to the existing Slovenian system. This bill is intended to better protect industrial property. Slovenia is famous for not being able to protect its territory, but its history and its culture. Let's just remember how we were protecting the lipices, the terranium, the prosciutto, the Premur movement, and so on. It is good that Croatia does not name Slovenia. I am sure that Slovenia should then change its name to Northern Slovenia. In Slovenia, many would protect their brand, but they do not choose to do so because of the financial burden. The stamps can only be protected by those who have the money. The Office maintains different registers: register of patents, models, brands and geographical indications, register of applications for those rights, register of representatives. Most registers are public. Access to registers is possible only in the library of the office, and only in the morning. Someone who works from 8 to 16 practically has no access to the registers. I wonder when electronic access to registers will be possible. The transfer of decisions from the district court to the office and in the case of an administrative dispute again to the Administrative Court does not facilitate proceedings. On the contrary, you'll be even longer and more expensive. The bill also provides for new jobs, new procedures, new training and education. In short, new appropriations. It is also interesting that the drafter rejected all comments made by the professional public, such as the Administrative Court, the Bar, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Slovenian intellectual property representatives, on the proposal of the law. In short, we Members are once again faced with the fact that we must quickly adopt something because of the European Union directive, even though it is a new law with many open issues. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Igor Peček will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the various Member States of the European Union, intellectual property rights are regulated differently, even though this is the subject of European Union legislation. It is therefore in the interest of all Member States to ensure the uniform protection of intellectual property rights throughout the Union and to establish a centralised regulation of this area at Union level. This will make the registration of trade marks in the European Union cheaper, faster, more reliable and more predictable, while ensuring greater legal certainty for holders. In the Marjan Šarca Group, we welcome these changes in this area and support the EU's unitary patent, a patent system that will cover the entire European Union. We also hope that this will help to make it easier for companies to defend so-called patent trolls, companies that produce nothing and do not seek to protect their product with patents and then purchase patents and then seek potential targets from which they would most easily claim compensation. Their aim is not to prevent competition from using certain technologies, their aim is merely profit and some experts estimate that the current fragmented European system allows them to find more vulnerable targets more easily. It is therefore necessary to seek solutions to safeguard how intellectual property will remain as long as possible and as far as possible protected from such abuses and that businesses will not waste valuable time and money on disputes that are then resolved by lawyers. The main purpose of intellectual property regulation is to promote creativity and find new solutions. Developmental research is always linked to high investment and costs in the company, so the protection of intellectual property and the related construction of the brand is of great importance and gives the creators additional incentive to operate. In addition, the company’s trademark distinguishes it from competition, makes it known to customers and remains faithful to it. Patents, models and brands need to be well protected, otherwise someone else can detect a good idea and take some simple steps to take over the business in which someone invested all his knowledge and property. Rights stem from intellectual activity and their main feature is exclusiveness, which means that the holder of a particular type of monopoly over the economic exploitation of his creative work, which gives him a competitive advantage on the market. If we are to move as a country to the next level of economic development, we will need to become a more autonomous innovator and knowledge generator from the importer of knowledge and technology, both in the economic sectors and in the global market niche. Finally, with intellectual property, we create added value for individuals and businesses, which has a positive impact on the development of the whole economic and social system. We believe that its uniform protection and enforcement contribute to the promotion of innovation and economic growth, so we will support the proposal for a new law in the Marjan Sarca Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor! Effective protection of intellectual property is crucial to the functioning of the modern economy. Industrial patents and trademarks are now the basis for high added value. It is also very important for regulations in this area to be harmonised within the European space, as it is impossible to imagine a single market for goods and services. The proposed amendments and additions to the current law are a result of the completion of the European Directive. It's not about major tectonic changes, it's just about harmonisation. Among them is the most important change in the unification of the trade mark registration procedure, which will then take place throughout the European Union in a coordinated manner. In doing so, these provisions also adapt to the time and progress of modern technologies and thus allow for the possibility of trade mark insurance irrespective of the medium in which it is used. In recent decades, however, a highly expanded field of intellectual property protection is not necessarily in favour of the original author of intellectual property. Modern capitalism has granted most rights to the owner of the patent or brand, not necessarily its original author. Thus, protection of intellectual property is often used primarily to prevent the use of intellectual property. In practice, when the owners obtained a patent or a brand, they did not use it, so the amendments to this law are expected to end. The fundamental condition for the insurance of industrial property or trademarks becomes its use, not its ownership. Amendments to this Act therefore introduce the principle of loss of protection of industrial property if its owner does not apply it. We believe that in the future this can be of great help mainly in reviving the old brands that the owners have acquired with purely speculative purposes. In the Group of Social Democrats we will support the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Industrial Property Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u14	Thanks again. Colleagues and colleagues! The determination of a trade mark is of exceptional strategic importance for each manufacturer, since, at the end of the period, each trade mark also offers a number of advantages, such as protecting the manufacturer from its competitors on the market, protecting the consumer on the other hand from counterfeiting or misleading and allowing the identification of the origin of the product. The value of the brand is higher than the value of the brand, and the loyalty of consumers to this brand and the recognition of its name is higher and the quality of the brand itself is greater. In the SMC Group, we propose the adoption of the proposed amendment to the Industrial Property Act as soon as possible, as it will also enable Slovenian legal entities to become more competitive in the wider economic area. The amendment will introduce into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia the European Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks which lays down the harmonisation of the main procedural rules in the field of trade marks registration in Slovenia and other Member States of the Union with those in the system of trade marks of the European Union. This will ensure that trade mark registration systems across the Union are more accessible and efficient for businesses. During the proposed solutions to the amendment of the law, we particularly welcome the broader definition of the characters that may make up a brand, a more precise set of absolute reasons why the Office of Intellectual Property of the Republic of Slovenia should not register the registered brand, and a new requirement that only those trademarks which are actually used in practice can be registered. While there are some less difficult changes in the bill, the IPR will allow a gradual transition to e-commerce, process optimization and greater efficiency in administrative procedures themselves. We therefore support digitisation and the introduction of this e-commerce in the SMC, thereby speeding up the registration procedures and thus the possibility of a faster launch of the brand, thereby increasing the visibility and exercise of the rights of the goods or services. Furthermore, we are confident that the introduction of electronic commerce will have positive effects in the future from a financial point of view, as a number of material costs will be reduced. The new law also confers a transfer of powers to the Office of Intellectual Property to decide on the annulment and invalidity of trademarks from the court to the Office of Intellectual Property. As a result of this urgent new employment, additional financial resources will need to be provided and administrative disputes will be allowed against the decisions of the Office. It is therefore expected that the Administrative Court will also be more burdensome, which means that additional training and education will also be necessary in the said Court of Justice. This can be seen as something negative and, on the other hand, in the field of trademarks, legal protection is improving. Finally, the amendment will also address the identified shortcomings regarding the fines and fines laid down in the current law, but now they will be set in euros, and this will also lead to compliance with the Law on Offences. Due to the above-mentioned positive effects brought by the novelties, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Industrial Property Act in the SMC Group. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u16	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all, even in front of the receivers! We have before us the amendment to the Industrial Property Act, which transposes into the Slovenian legal order a European directive aimed at uniting the legal order of EU Member States in the field of trade marks. The key function of the trade mark is to identify the product or service with a unique character, whether it is a graphic symbol, logo, sound or multimedia content. Modern capitalist countries, from the United States of America and from the EU to China, have been actively strengthening the legal protection of trademarks and other forms of industrial property in recent decades. The brands today represent an important part of the value of industrial property or also of these potential companies. In this light, we must also understand the trends in the registration of trade marks. Legislators generally see only positive characteristics in the light of these trends in the rigorous protection of trademarks. The trade mark is thus intended to protect the product, its origin, its manufacturer and its quality, but it should be borne in mind that, in particular, international corporations use the legal protection of trademarks to establish a monopoly on the market. Large corporations with huge cash flow and profits with their trademarks raise the level of barriers on the market, making it difficult for smaller and new companies with local brands to access markets. The legal protection of trademarks and other forms of corporate industrial property shall be used to prosecute any unwanted association on their products or services. In addition, the brands allow them to sell products at higher prices, which do not reflect higher production costs or higher user value of the product, but are based only on the symbolic prestige of the brand. International corporations are also asking questions about the basic function of a brand that is supposed to be researching their products with others. This function is divorced when one corporation purchases hundreds of different brands and thus ensures their exclusive use. The novelty changes the definition of a trade mark since it is no longer required that the mark should be graphically presented, but it is sufficient to show the mark in any appropriate form as a specific whole in which the generally accessible technology is used. This opens the possibility that even signs of movement, multimedia brands and holographic brands can be registered in addition to sound labels. We have been detained in Levika until the definition of trademarks has been extended. It should be borne in mind that the registration of a trade mark allows private institutions exclusive property or exclusive rights over the use of common goods for private commercial purposes. It is basically about the privatisation of graphic and new forms that do not have the owner, so any expansion of the brand definition can be problematic as it allows for the commercialisation of a wider range of visual and other communication means, which are in principle the common property of all. Otherwise, we welcome the extension of the absolute grounds for refusing registration of a trade mark, such as the prohibition of the use of traditional terms for wine, the prohibition of the use of traditional specialities guaranteed and the protection of breeders' rights. Thus, it will not be possible to commercialise symbols that mark a common cultural heritage, for example, the expression of penin will not become an exclusive mark of an individual company, but will remain in common use. The new Industrial Property Act also requires that registered trademarks be actually used in respect of goods or services for which they are registered. In the event of non-use within five years of the date of conclusion of the registration procedure, they may be revoked. It is true that the registration of a trade mark is linked to the serious and actual use of a trade mark, not for the manipulative purposes of the registration not for the purpose of the applicant, with which other economic operators prevent its use. We do not oppose the amendment of the law in Levica, but we will not support it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u18	President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Members and Members! The bill is transposed into Slovenian law by a directive which Slovenia, as an EU Member State, should transpose by 14. 1. 2019. Since we are already late, it is therefore high time to bring changes into our legal order. Among the changes are for example: there is no longer a requirement for graphic representation of the character, which makes it possible to register new types of characters that cannot be graphically displayed, such as multimedia or audio characters. In this way we are moving in step with time, modern creativity and new forms of signs. It is an extensive and precise set of absolute reasons for refusing to register a brand, including, for example, traditional expressions for wine and traditional specialities guaranteed. In order to reject for relative reasons, a new objection is necessary, as the Office of Relative Reasons will no longer check on the basis of an official duty. This means that the procedures will be faster. The emphasis is on the actual use of the stamps, a five-year period in which the mark must be applied may be imposed, otherwise it may be repealed. In this way, it is ensured that registered brands are also actually used and not merely impede the entry into the market of similar brands. However, it is also possible to conclude a settlement in the opposition procedure against the registration of the mark, thereby reducing the proceedings of objections. In addition, the proposal provides for amendments allowing the Office of Intellectual Property to move fully to e-commerce. Procedures shall be simplified and reduced burdens on customers and the Office also by extending each time the time limit for a maximum period of three months, instead of, for example, three times the time limit after one month. Much of this is about the transposition of the European Union Directive into Slovenian legislation, which should have been done more than one year ago, and at the same time the proposal contains solutions for the full transition to the e-commerce of the Office of Intellectual Property. It simplifies and reduces administrative procedures for both clients and the Office by this and some other solutions. The inefficient and slow functioning of public administration and public services increases the share of time and effort that people must devote instead of their basic activities to regulating administrative requirements. Instead of dealing with the development of its company, the entrepreneur is waiting to issue the required permits. Such an environment hampers the realization of talents and causes great harm first to an individual and, consequently, to the country. Christian Democrats note that public administration and public services should be directed towards enabling the development of human talents, not to hinder them. In New Slovenia, we want the country to allow every citizen and company to arrange everything it needs from the country electronically, without late visits and waiting outside the official window. Development must aim to ensure that as many contacts between citizens and businesses as possible with the country can be made electronically and in one place – from the submission of applications and objections to electronic service and the electronic tracking of the resolution of applications. The use of information and communication technologies not only facilitates the implementation of procedures but also reduces the required time and costs of citizens and businesses in administrative matters. The website allows administrative matters to be handled directly from the office or from the home seat. This eliminates the cost of transport and saves time that a person would otherwise spend coming to the office and waiting in line. In New Slovenia, we do not agree that citizens would waste their precious time waiting in line and long-term procedures. We believe, however, that they can use it much better and that they prefer to develop their business ideas or invest it in relationships with their loved ones. In Nova Slovenija we estimate that the proposed law is going towards simplifying bureaucracy and allowing for e-business in intellectual property, so we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The final point of view is the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek, to be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u20	Your Honor! The main purpose of the Directive is to harmonise national laws and procedural rules in the field of trade marks with those applicable to the registration of trade marks in the European Union. In the SAB, we believe that the novelty brings advantages to domestic companies, which will register their brands across all countries of the European Union easily and effectively. The harmonisation of legislation will save them the high costs they have in relation to legal advice in foreign countries. The novelty extends the absolute reasons why registration is to be refused on an official basis. For example, the latter will not be allowed to oppose traditional expressions of wine. A great deal of emphasis is placed on the active use of a brand, registered brands which have not been used by the user for five years, will be cancelled for non-use or will be taken into account as a defence argument by the later brand applicant. If the previous notifier objects to the registration procedure, the later notifier shall have the option of requiring evidence from the previous one that he has actually used the registered mark within five years of registration. If he fails to prove it, he will fail by objecting to the registration of the brand. The novelty extends the definition of the characters which may constitute a trade mark. Newly, it will no longer be required that a graphic sign can be presented, but that the competent authorities and the public clearly and precisely determine what is the subject of protection. This means, for example, that protection will also be granted to multimedia signs, certain sound signs and so on. Although the stamps have been set up so far, the brand will be regulated by the Industrial Property Act on the new issue of the flag. The procedures for the annulment and invalidity of the marks are still pending before the court, but the amendment contains a legal basis on which all proceedings from 14 January 2023 will take place before the Office of Intellectual Property in accordance with the rules of administrative procedure. It will make it easier for domestic tenderers to register domestic trade marks throughout the European Union. We are aware of the extent to which investments and promotions are needed in order to make local brands effective, so we support any arrangement that otherwise makes complicated procedures friendly to the user. In the SAB Group, we welcome the transition to the office's electronic operations and process optimization, but we certainly believe that the transition should be carried out at a shorter rate of the ministry, as the transition is only three years from now. In view of the fact that we are one year behind in the transposition of the directive and that we are at risk of being punished, and in view of the fact that nothing tangible has been done in this mandate for the economy, I justifiably claim that the Slovenian economy requires the Minister to roll his own sleeves. We will, of course, support the proposal of the novel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 5 March 2020, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law amending the law on the association of Slovenian railways within the framework of a restricted procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of nine MEPs and Members with the first-signed Miho Kordiš. At its 26th emergency meeting on 12 February 2020, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u22	Good day to you all! The bill was good because it set limits on the ownership of business shares in the company Slovenske žlaznica – Freight Transport. With great regret, we have followed the decision that the law on the Committee has not received the appropriate support for further consideration. In the Slovenian National Party, we oppose any further dismemberment of Slovenian companies. The country is not a bad owner. If so, we can talk about the human factor, that is, the kind of people who manage government property. It is right that the State has a certain share of its assets either in its business shares or in its shares. In the Slovenian National Party, we will always advocate that the ownership of companies be returned to the state property or that the sale or sale ceases. Too many times, we've already experienced a Thai thief's sale of national wealth at all costs. This is where I'm going to touch the current issue. We were all able to monitor the sale of first-class logs abroad a few days ago. Why destroy all that is Slovenian foreign capital with open hands because it is supposed to be better? In the end, we feel sorry for ourselves that we have nothing. This is not how state silver works, whether it's a wood industry or an infrastructure or something else. In our opinion, this silver is the share of the country in the company Slovenske žlaznice – Freight transport, since the company operates well and has always proved to be the most profitable company within the Slovenian Railways. Privatisation of Slovenske železnice – Freight transport is pointless because the company always proves that it is able to repay its financial obligations and is also able to fight for a greater market share even across Slovenian borders. Transport, transport and logistics infrastructure are the most important parts of the economic and sustainable development of each smart country. Therefore, the State must have an interest in the ownership of companies operating in this area. Slovenian railways are certainly one of the most important state-owned enterprises, so it is necessary and reasonable that the state has an interest in them. Following the current law, there are wide open doors to the sale or transfer of the business shares of Slovenske Slovenske železnica in subsidiaries to other persons. This is mainly the reselling of positive subsidiaries that are clearly interested in foreign capital, which we strongly oppose. In the end, we have to ask ourselves what else we have left. Do we really want foreign capital so badly? The State should strive to protect domestic assets and also be able to defend such measures abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor! The only objective of the proposed amendments to the law is to prevent new co-investors from entering the Slovenian Railway Company – Freight Transport. Applicants correctly note that freight transport is the only truly profitable activity in rail transport. While logistics and freight transport can make profits, passenger transport needs annual subsidies worth around €50 million per year in Slovenia. In this case, it is also necessary to purchase and maintain modern trains, arrange tracks, stations, signalling. This year's Slovenian rail tracks are followed by new urgently needed passenger trains, worth more than €100 million, and most of us agree that everything is necessary and that investment should be even higher. Passenger transport is a public service which the country can subsidise, must not, and must, if we are to establish modern public transport in Slovenia. In the case of this law, most of the applicant's arguments are aimed at freight traffic. They represent it as a source of profit and ignore the fact that huge investments in transport assets and support logistics are also needed in this activity. The Slovenian Railway does not have the means for such investments, due to the age of equipment and the still considerable indebtedness of the company, the funds for new investments could only be obtained through recapitalisation. For her there are two ways, either a stake in the state or a new partner's entry. The transport of goods by rail is, unlike passenger transport, a market activity in which private and state-owned companies compete freely within the EU does not take account of national borders. This does not mean that the State must not give limited State aid or simply invest its money in an enterprise where the investment is expected to profit. It shows another important element that wants to be competitive in the market, however, must control currents significantly longer than the distance between Koper and Hodhos. In addition to fresh capital, Slovenian railways also need partners to provide transport at large distances that exceed the territory of Slovenia. In 2015, the State Enterprise Management Strategy identified Slovenian Railways and its subsidiaries as strategic investments in which new partners can enter, with the country retaining a majority share. This provides the company with the possibility of obtaining fresh capital and partners without the State losing its majority ownership, profits and control in it. Thus, the current law allows the State, SDH as manager and Slovenian railways as strategic investments to maintain competitiveness while protecting public ownership in them. It allows them to adapt their equity structure in the long term and to direct limited investment assets to where they are most needed. The adoption of this law would mean, in particular, that the State or SDH should recapitalise freight traffic with money that could and should be earmarked for the modernisation of passenger transport. We are also convinced by the Social Democrats that everyone is not a suitable partner for a society as important as the Slovenian Railways. We must stress, however, that the informed assessment and final decision on possible partnerships within the competence of SDH and the Government as its assembly. It cannot be Parliament that, in any particular case, would defend us from partnership with a potential speculative or inappropriate partner with the proposals of the law. For this task, SDH has been established and empowered, and we expect it to do well.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thanks again. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Railway Company, as a national freight and passenger transport carrier, as well as a public railway infrastructure manager, is certainly the most important state-owned undertaking in the field of transport, transport and logistics. The current legal regime applicable to the Slovenian Railway Company is in line with the country's existing capital investment management system, as defined in the Capital Investment Management Strategy Decision, which constitutes the basic tool for active ownership of the country by which it communicates its objectives to the State's investment manager, shareholders, the wider capital market and the general public in the management of state-owned investments. The basic idea of the current regulation of the Slovenian Railway Company Act is to allow the Slovenian Railway Company to have business shares in an independent company if, in view of the market situation, this would prove to be prudent and rational. It is also important and important to stress that the current legislation allows Slovenian Railways to search for a strategic partner for expansion to foreign markets, which means extending the route and thus gaining a more important role as a regional actor. It's actually some kind of opportunity, some sort of development guarantee. Connecting to a strategic partner alone means the flow of fresh capital, which has also ensured long-term stable business in the final stage. It is also worth mentioning that, according to the strategy, Slovenian railways will only be able to have a share in subsidiaries in such a way as to maintain at least 50% and one share. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance held on 12 February 2020, we have also heard from a representative of the Slovenian Railway Company that the proposed novelties that we are considering today make it impossible to find a strategic partner, which consequently would also make it impossible to increase competitiveness by expanding to foreign markets. The representative also pointed out that it was not at all about selling a subsidiary of Slovenian Railway – Freight Transport, but only about finding a strategic partner. At this point, I would like to remind you that Members of the Slovenian Railway Company have already resolved the Slovenian Railway Company in 2009 by means of a special law by which the National Assembly recognised claims of EUR 134 million in 2000, which is why, according to the Director General of the Slovenian Railways, Mr Mesa, the Slovenian Railway Company – Freight Transport has remained alive in the first place. The State has also recapitalised the system twice since 2015, with an additional €136 million for the first time in 2015 and an additional €110 million for the second time in 2018. This simply means that the amendment of the existing law would constitute a stagnation or even a risk that the Slovenian Railway Company would lose its existing shares in transport due to competition and, consequently, resume its business with a loss that the State would have to recover. Therefore, they do not follow the description of some of the parliamentary groups that we or probably will hear about doing well in the past or with some old models. In the SMC we always and also now welcome this desire of the management to develop society, to increase its competitiveness and expand its business to foreign markets and also to invest in the modernisation of the fleet and the purchase of new means of transport. It is quite clear that without integration in the European area with the aim of increasing business opportunities in foreign markets in the future, we cannot expect good business. All of this has led us to believe that the novels of the Slovenian Railway Company Law have not been supported, since we are aware that the business opportunities are those we cannot limit, and we need to trust the management of the Slovenian Railway Company in finding optimal solutions for the good business results of the company now and in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u28	President, thank you for your word. Slovenian Railways – Freight Transport is the most profitable company in the SZ Group, but the ruling class has decided to sell this good standing state company years ago. In order to prevent another senseless disposal of national property, we have tabled amendments to the Slovenian Railway Company Act in Levica. The sale of Slovenian railways – Freight transport begins with the gradual privatisation of all Slovenian railways. It was enabled by the SMC, Desus and SD coalition and continues with the assistance of LMŠ and Alenka Bratušek. No wonder the first on the privatisation list was the best standing company in the group. Freight traffic operates stable and pays its obligations. Last year, it realised around €10 million in net profit, it is in charge of investments and it is working in a comparable manner with most other companies in Central Europe and the Balkans. Who led him to such a result? State. Now 49% of this healthy company is expected to entrust strategic importance to the Czech oligarch Kretinski. The Government and the management of the Slovenian Railways justify this move with the development of a company that would need a strategic partner to modernise the rolling stock and to penetrate foreign markets. We've already heard that argument. We have mirrored the privatisation propaganda that we have been able to listen to in all the dirty sales in the past when profitable, well-established companies have been richly donated to foreign capital. From NKBM to Gorenje to NLB and Adrié Airways, we have received fines everywhere in exchange for the depletion of the company and the state's failure to take any lever of economic power and job protection. There's no such thing as a strategic owner. It's just a fiction of political propaganda. There is only a capitalist private owner who maximizes his pocket by forgiving, exhausting businesses, sucking public money and channeling profits, of course at the expense of the community and the environment. The same in a specific case. Oligarch Kretinsky is barely engaged in the rail logistics industry, driving only coal after the tracks and recording four times less overloads than the Slovenian Railways – and this is supposed to be a strategic partner? In the coming decade, the ruling policy will throw a billion euro into the construction of the railway infrastructure, on which the profits will be generated by companies, which the same country, once again, will sell to foreign tycoons for change. The law we proposed in Levica was probably the last hope to stop the sale of SŽ – freight transport or the privatisation of Slovenian railways in general. By comparison, our northern neighbour Austria — there the country is not even thinking about selling an analogue subsidiary of Austrian state railways, especially for a few 10 million dollars to a Czech media tycoon who is also knocking on profits by burning coal in power stations. Unfortunately, our compradors, representatives of the interests of foreign capital, gathered in parties to the political environment of LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desusa and SAB, are not capable of such strategic reflection.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u30	In 2016, a new Law on the Slovenian Railway Company was adopted, which provided that a company, in accordance with the State’s capital investment management strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, could have business shares in an independent company. Slovenian railways wanted to find a strategic partner for the company Slovenske železnica – Freight Transport. To this end, a pre-signed letter on the intention of a strategic partnership with Austrian federal railways was signed. The company did not decide to enter the strategic ownership of Slovenske železnica – Freight transport and in January 2019, binding offers for entry into the ownership structure Freight transport were submitted by the French state railways and the Czech logistics corporation EP holding. The proposal for a law before us today, however, makes it impossible for the Slovenian Railway Company, d.o.o., to sell or in any way withdraw a business share in subsidiaries. Slovenian Railway Company – Freight transport according to the 2018 business report shows a net financial debt of EUR 123 million. The proposal by Levice is that the state of Slovenia enter the ownership structure of the Slovenian Railway – Freight transport through recapitalisation. The market economy is a condition for companies to develop innovative value-added products for users. Competition is in favour of buyers and the company's ability to make effective use of production resources, quality assurance and price reduction for users. Companies that constantly develop and improve their products have the best survival and prosperity potential in a competitive environment. In the social market economy, the State has the task of protecting competition. Slovenia is, according to the European Commission, one of the countries with the highest level of state ownership in Europe. Slovenia is mainly characterised by state ownership of majority shares, which is highly above average. Since the start of the crisis, the European Commission notes that the important economic and fiscal consequences of the country's involvement in the economy have contributed to the loss of more than one third of GDP. The European Commission estimates that the total economic cost is EUR 13 billion and EUR 6 000 600 per citizen. While the State must carry out its tasks, it certainly does not fall within the scope of entrepreneurship on the market. We advocate the withdrawal of the country from politics and the economy, and it is reasonable that the country retains its majority ownership in strategic enterprises, in the field of transport, transport and logistics infrastructure and the electricity system. The state of the railway infrastructure is alarming as the entire network is outdated and does not allow for an adequate speed of transport. For too long, the country has neglected the development of railway infrastructure and its involvement in international flows. The Slovenian rail system, together with Luka Koper, represents a major transport potential. In order to urgently modernise existing rail and port infrastructures and build new ones, it is necessary to obtain all available public, in particular cohesion and private resources, including through the granting of long-term concessions or the sale of part of the activity. To this end, it is necessary to cut into the existing administrative and organisational structure and to amend the necessary legislative frameworks. We will not support the bill in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Levica Group has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Company of the Slovenian Railways. Their aim is to prevent Slovenian Railways from having their shareholdings in subsidiaries. Such a solution is justified by the fact that it is the most profitablely dependent company of the Slovenian Railway Company and that its privatisation constitutes damage to state property. We have considered the proposal on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. The Ministry of Infrastructure recalled that the objective of the adoption of the existing 2016 technical regulation was to comply with the applicable capital company management system. Remember, in 2015, the Country Capital Investment Management Strategy was adopted, which envisages adapting to market conditions. In this context, however, the previous text of the law was not in line with that strategy, which provides for the removal of restrictions on ownership and business shares. This is mainly due to a faster response to strategic business decisions resulting from the management strategy. The technical novel of the Slovenian Railway Company Act was therefore merely following the management strategy proposed by the Government of Mir Cerar and endorsed by the then government coalition. In this regard, I must stress that the Ministry of Infrastructure is responsible for the management of only five companies, among which there are no groups of Slovenian Railways, namely SODO, Borzen, DRI, 2TKK and ELES. In the meantime, the entire Slovenian Railway Group belongs to the SDH management portfolio for which the strategy is adopted by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. The proposer would have appealed to the Ministry of Finance for serious purposes to amend the Capital Investment Management Strategy or perhaps even take over the management of a ministry. In addition, it is surprising that in December 2018 all Members of the Left Group who were present at the meeting endorsed the proposal to appoint a member of the SDH Supervisory Board, who did not speak about changing the management strategy. We must also not overlook the fact that the Legislative and Legal Service, in its opinion, has also pointed out that the reasons cited by the applicants do not justify public benefit and thus proportionality in interfering with the free economic initiative provided for in Article 74 of the Constitution. The Slovenian Railway Company emphasises, inter alia, that it is by no means a sale of SŽ – Freight Transport, but rather a search for a strategic partner. In doing so, they claim that they will only choose a potential strategic partner if this has a positive impact on SŽ – Freight Transport and consequently on the Slovenian Railway Group. It is necessary to ensure long-term stability and competitiveness, which can be achieved through the flow of fresh capital. Both the current law and the capital investment management strategy of the country do not allow the country to sell its existing share by more than 50 %. In any case, he is still the majority owner of the Republic of Slovenia. Last but not least, this bill is also a fraud by the proposer. You could say that the bill is contradictory to itself. The financial implications assessment states that the proposal will have no impact on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which it does not hold, given that the applicants advocate the recapitalisation of the Slovenian Railway Company — Freight by the State, if necessary, which would certainly have a negligible impact on the state budget. We oppose such a proposal in the SAB Group for these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We have reached the last position, namely the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, which will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Slovenske železnice Company Act refers to the availability of Slovenske železnice, d.o.o., with a business share, so that Slovenske železnice as founder and sole associate of subsidiaries, which are Slovenian Railways – Infrastructure, Passenger Transport and Freight, cannot share or transfer its business share in another person. This would prevent the parent company from having its property or ownership in subsidiaries established to manage the maintenance, operation and renewal of public rail infrastructure and other tasks of the infrastructure manager, to carry out the transport of passengers in internal, cross-border, regional and international passenger rail transport and to transport goods in internal and international rail transport. The fact is that the legal regime in force is in line with the existing capital company management system and the country's capital investment management strategy has been adopted since 2015, so the regulation of the proposed legal solution would make it impossible to adapt to market conditions and to manage more flexibly, as foreseen by that strategy and the SDH law. The strategy provides for the elimination of restrictions on equity and business shares due to a faster response to strategic business decisions. The competent ministry, namely the Ministry of Infrastructure, assesses that the adoption of the proposed legal solution could have financial implications for the state budget due to the possible recapitalisation of SZ – Freight by the State. As the applicant himself said, the legislative proposal is the result of the conclusion of the SZ and SDH negotiations on the sale of almost half of the shares of SZ — Freight Transport and Fersped, d.o.o., foreign investor. In the Desus Group, we understand the intention of the proposer to prevent the privatisation of a state-owned enterprise, especially when it is a compulsory economic public service carried out by the SZ for the transport of passengers. We could also agree with the proposalers' thinking on the efforts of the Slovenian Railways to take over the bus carrier, for which the Slovenian Railways should count down a total of EUR 30 million. If they have EUR 30 million for the realisation of the business, they can obviously also provide funds to recapitalise one of their more successful daughters. However, we cannot agree with the applicants that the search for a strategic partner is the same as the privatisation process. Slovenian railways are looking for a strategic partner to expand to foreign markets, which is also linked to the extension of transport routes and, consequently, to acquire a more important role for a regional actor, and ultimately to acquire additional capital for the modernisation of the fleet and the purchase of new rolling stock, which will be particularly happy for passengers travelling on trains that are almost all over 20 years old and are still waiting for those long-awaited new trains. At the same time, it is estimated on Slovenian railways that without a strategic partnership it will be difficult to maintain the current level of performance of SZ – Freight Transport in the long term. In the parent society, they promise that a decision on a potential strategic partner will be made only on condition that such integration will have a positive impact on SŽ – Freight Transport and Ferspeed, d. o.o., and the Slovenian Railway Group, and in our parliamentary group we expect them to keep their promise. The Desus Group agrees with the Government's view that there is no need to amend the law, so we did not support the proposal at the meeting of the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for a law supplementing a criminal law within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of seven Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to respond briefly to some of the concerns raised in my position by the Supreme Prosecutor's Office on the proposal of this amendment of the Penal Code. With regard to the concern that the introduction of a special limitation period is not appropriate, since Article 90, paragraph 3, should already provide for a specific limitation period by beginning, for certain offences, a period of limitation, with the age of full age, to clarify that this existing provision of Article 90 provides only for the beginning of a certain limitation period and not for a specific limitation period as such. The period in this case shall remain the same, only the day of the beginning of its course shall be changed. For a new, special limitation period, however, it is a matter of changing the length of the time-limits according to the weight and type of the offence and not merely a change in the way the time-limit is due. Since the special limitation period in the Code has not yet been fixed, there is no reason why a special limitation period should not be re-arranged in the new third paragraph of Article 95. With regard to the question of the length of the extension of the limitation period for a period of three times the time limit, I would like to stress that one of the purposes of the extension is that in cases where, even after a longer period of time, there is sufficient evidence to convict, it would be possible for the procedure to lead to a conviction and to enable the victim to be satisfied. In the case of offences against sexual inviolability, the psychological, clinical and sociological aspects, particularly in minors, must be taken into account in addition to the legal system. Indeed, all experts working in the field of treatment and rehabilitation of persons who have been victims of sexual abuse point out that it is crucial for victims to be able to prosecute the perpetrators accordingly. Clinical psychologists point out that it is crucial for the comprehensive healing process of the victim that the perpetrator is also adequately penalized. The problem of sexual abuse in childhood, youth is often raised only in the face of psychotherapy, which can also occur at a higher chronological age than 38 years. Depressed memories of sexual abuse begin only later in life with possible later intimate relations or experience of motherhood or paternity. Thus, many abuse begins to confront decades after abuse, often when a crime is already criminally outdated. We can see that the outdated deadlines in the existing code from the point of view of abuse of the victim are absolutely short. Therefore, in cases where there is sufficient evidence despite the passage of time, the existing deadlines prevent comprehensive treatment, especially for abused minors, and prevent effective prosecution of perpetrators. It is therefore necessary to extend the limitation period, but of course the principle of proportionality must also be respected. In some cases, a double extension of deadlines would allow for an extension after 20 years. This may, in the light of the above-mentioned arguments of clinical psychology, make it relatively early to prevent the appropriate overall treatment process of the victim, although there would be sufficient evidence to condemn it. However, a double extension in cases of the most cruel crimes against sexual inviolability, such as rape committed in a horrendous manner, would prevent the prosecution of the victim after 60 years, even though in certain cases there might be sufficient evidence for such a serious crime. As a result of this, it is estimated that the threefold extension is appropriate and, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, protects the situation of the victims by allowing the proceedings against the perpetrators to be carried out later in their lives, thus enabling the whole process of their recovery. If only one victim, ladies and gentlemen are allowed to do so, this novel will bring reasonable changes and it is worth supporting today. In this place, thank you sincerely to everyone at the Ministry of Justice, who, with your expert opinions, helped us to improve the solutions in the Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The Justice Committee considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Penal Code at its 13th meeting on 6 February 2020 as the working body of the mother. The representative of the proposer, Mr Mag. In his supplementary explanation for the articles, Matthew Tonin stressed that sexual abuse is one of the most reprehensible crimes that mark victims for life. These crimes are not always committed by force or threat, but are often committed by fraud, especially against children or minors, so the victims are unconsciously suppressed so deeply that they can be seduced and confronted much later, often only when the prosecution of the crime and its perpetrator has already become obsolete. By means of the proposed law, the proposer initially proposed that all crimes against sexual inviolability should be prosecuted and punished, which would give the victims support and time to approach prosecution when they are ready and that the perpetrators should be aware that they will be reached within the time limit of their rights. The testimony of victims and volunteers of non-governmental organisations during the December public presentation of opinions has certainly helped in his view to provide broad support for the proposed solutions. The drafting of the amendment was followed by comments from the Legislative and Legal Service and, together with the Ministry of Justice, prepared a compromise solution setting out specific limitation periods of three times the limitation period according to the gravity of the individual offence. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that in a written legal opinion they had drawn attention to the diversity and gravity of the offences under consideration and raised the question of the proportionality of the solutions proposed. The amendments tabled by the NSI Group shall take due account of their comments. A representative of the Government of Justice Minister Andrej Katič said that the statute of limitations is a general institute of criminal law. The 2002 amendment of the Penal Code established the beginning of this statute of limitations in the case of juvenile victims by their age, but experience in practice shows that this is not enough. The profession also agrees that victims of sexual abuse, especially when it comes to children or minors, must be put at the forefront, as their trust in themselves is often so weak that actions can be seduced and decided to prosecute much later. This will also make the proposed amendment possible. State Councillor Rajko Fajt presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposal of the law. The Committee also took note of the written opinion of the Court of Justice. They also presented their opinion to representatives of the Supreme Court and the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, who felt that the proposal was too systematic and comprehensive. In the debate, MEPs felt that every form of sexual violence was unacceptable and unacceptable, so the State should do everything to protect victims, including potential victims, and to prosecute perpetrators. Following the debate between Members and Members, the Committee unanimously adopted the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Nova Slovenija to Article 1 and voted jointly and unanimously in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to Andrei Katič, Minister of Justice, who conducts ongoing business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you. Your Honor! Every step we take to protect victims of sexual abuse is important and every debate is necessary. In a public presentation of opinions, medical professionals and NGOs have made it clear that the consequences of sexual abuse are permanent. However, if a person has the power to pursue the perpetrator for years, it is important that the law allows for the registration of child sexual abuse. The move forward has already been made by the 2002 KZ amendment, providing that the limitation period in the case of juvenile victims begins to run from their age. Obsolete deadlines were substantially extended by the implementation of the new Code in 2008. This means that the offence of sexual assault against a person under the age of 15 is outdated at the age of 38. However, experience in practice shows that a greater shift is needed to achieve the objective. The amendment adopted by the Justice Committee addressed certain concerns about proportionality and the set of offences for which a longer limitation period is set. The government supports the bill as amended by the amendment. However, I believe that much more needs to be done in this area. We need to put the victims and their needs at the forefront of the regulation. For years we have heard warnings that the definition of a crime of rape in Slovenia is not in line with international human rights law and standards and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. Thus, many European countries have already changed their penal laws. For example, Sweden passed the model of approval in 2018. It was also legalized by Croatia. They think seriously about this in Spain and many other countries. We also have a heated debate on this issue and often separate. As I have said many times, at the Ministry of Justice last year, for the purpose of preparing amendments and supplementing the Penal Code, we formed a working group composed of representatives of the courts, the State Prosecutor's Office, the police, the academic criminal law profession and NGOs. In November, according to our order, the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana completed an empirical study on crimes against sexual inviolability, which confirmed that changes were urgently needed. The prosecutions often dismiss allegations of acts that the alleged perpetrator did not use force. Even more so, the prosecutions and, in part, the courts deal with the intensity of the defence of alleged victims of crime, that is whether resisting the alleged offender is understood at all. In this regard, it is often also stereotyped to determine what the alleged victim’s behaviour was or whether it was in line with expectations. The model of coercion has been present in Slovenian case law at least since 1930, and other than minor changes, the definition is essentially unchanged since the 1977 Penal Code. Sexual autonomy deserves criminal protection even when it is not accompanied by force or threat. That is why we cannot wait any longer for appropriate prosecution or judicial practice to fill the supposed legal voids, and I am therefore pleased that support for the planned changes has been expressed on the Committee. The legislator must do his job here and amend the inadequate legal provision. I hope that the future government will continue with this project. I myself advocate a change in the legal definition of rape into a model of affirmative consent – that is to say, yes. I advocate the implementation of a provision which criminalizes an offence when someone without the consent of another person or of the same sex achieves his or her sexual intercourse or thus has equal treatment. The consent shall be given if, by its free will, a person has consented to sexual intercourse or thus equal sexual conduct and has been able to make and express such a decision. I believe that Slovenia would make an important step towards addressing and preventing rape. Laws have the power to ensure justice, but also to influence relations in society. If the perpetrator wants to take the car, owns someone else, then there is no need to explicitly object to the definition of this crime as a criminal, and consequently there is no need to prosecute it. There is no such thing as rape or sexual violence. Let us therefore conclude from this that the protection of private property in Slovenian criminal law is higher on the scale of values than the protection of individual physical and mental integrity. I think that we all agree, regardless of the political definition, that this should not be the case, so I stress once again, and I hope that whoever leads the Ministry of Justice will continue the work already being done. There can be no doubt about it. Sex without consent is rape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general discussion at its 11th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Andrei Katič, Minister of Justice, who conducts ongoing business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! Before you is the first substantive amendment to the Real Law Code adopted by the National Assembly in 2002. Our code is a good classic civil code, which in practice allows the development of real law, but in the last 17 years of its application has shown certain shortcomings to be addressed. Our approach to change has been delayed, and we don't interfere with the established institutes. Most media attention is given to the definition that animals are not things, but sentient living beings. Our code in the past does not follow, for example, German, Austrian, or French to regulate the specific situation of animals. I believe that the time has come for society to make a provision that animals are not things, but sentient living beings who receive special protection. We cannot and must not treat animals, even when regulating their situation and dealing with them in civilian areas, only as an object controlled by man. Their function is not solely and exclusively to serve and fulfil the personal interests of the owner. The proposal points to the application of specific special rules governing the permissible way of dealing with animals and the obligations that people have towards them, so that they are guaranteed their welfare as sentient beings, and that even in the exercise of their real rights, they refrain from practices that cause unreasonable, unnecessary suffering to animals. We are also guided by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and also by our Constitutional Court. I am sorry that last week the amendments adopted by the Government to the Animal Protection Act were not broader and more comprehensive in order to better protect animal welfare. However, I am pleased and welcome their commitment to prepare comprehensive solutions by autumn and to clearly define animals as sensitive beings, which give rise to the obligation of all of us to treat them with consideration and to take care of their welfare. My successor will also have prepared amendments to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance that pets are not subject to enforcement. The Novela also renews other institutions, such as the regulation of the property of the floor and the property of similar positions. The proposal allows relations to be established so that functionally related real estates in legal traffic are considered as a whole. This eliminates the risk that the new acquirer will only be sold an apartment without all the other properties needed for regular use, such as parking, storage, playgrounds and the like. The new arrangement also provides protection against unfair owners. In some cases, when shares are fragmented and individual co-owners are unknown or inactive, the co-owners whose share is more than half shall be subject to exceptional management when the transaction is approved by the court. The Novela also provides a legal basis for the renewal of the register of non-obsessed flag rights and entrenched movements. The new information solutions and the basis for linking with other registers and records will allow for a more transparent and up-to-date operation of this register, which will continue to be managed by Apes. The registration of a registered contractual non-obsessive flag right will be carried out by an authorised person on the basis of law, such as courts, notaries, executors, administrators, tax authorities and other persons who will be given such authorisation by law. In order to enable creditors to provide collateral, their conditional and future claims will also be sufficient for the creation of a non-obsessive flag right on the movables, and in the case of other claims, the parties will also be able to agree on a direct enforceability which, as now in the execution process, will have the effect of the ruble, i.e. the same as before. It also introduces the possibility of establishing a non-obsessive flag right on a business premium in the same way as already applicable to stocks of goods. With regard to the execution of public service services, time limits shall be lifted. It can also be established for a period longer than 30 years, even for an indefinite period of time. It also allows the transfer of the right to real service to the public benefit of the new operator without, for example, having to recommence contracts with the owners of the property. Also in the case of building rights, the provision concerning its duration shall be deleted. New construction methods and spatial legislation require it to be established for a longer period. The time limit on the building right is also irrelevant in the case of the construction of infrastructure facilities for the purpose of carrying out economic public services, since the period of use of infrastructure, in principle due to continuous renovations, is unlimited. The novelty also allows the contracting party to arrange for its own legal consequences after the termination of the building right. The solutions brought by the novels before you are aimed at better protection of the owner of an individual and legal traffic in real estate and will allow for the further development of real law, according to our assessment, so we propose that they be confirmed and accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Magi. Meiri Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and Members! At its 13th meeting, on 6 February, the Justice Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure and was published on the websites of the National Assembly on 22 November 2019. Within the time limit, the amendments have been tabled by the LMŠ, SD, SAB, Desus and Levica Members to Article 1, the SNS Members' Group to Article 1, and the LMŠ, SAB, SD and SMC to Article 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 17, 21, 22 and 25 of the proposal. Ms Andrej Katič, representative of the Justice Minister for Justice, said in an additional explanation of the articles that, despite the good functioning of the Real Law Code in practice, some possibilities for its improvement had been demonstrated, and then presented individual sets of amendments relating mainly to the management and functioning of the register of non-instant flags and traffic rights, the new definition of animals, the renewal of the regulation of essential property and changes in the field of invalidity of real services and building rights. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stated that they had drawn up a written opinion in the Legislative and Legal Service in which they had raised some concerns of a constitutional and legal nature, particularly of a legislative technical nature. Certain comments from the Legal and Legislative Service are taken into account by amendments from the Member Groups Desus, LMŠ, SAB, SD and SMC, and in relation to the other comments, the extensive written explanations of the Ministry, which form part of the legislative material, have been given. National Councillor Rajko Fajt presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposal of the law, also agrees with the amendments and amendments which define animals as sensitive living beings. However, he expressed certain concerns about the practical effects of the draft law in the work where it relates to the situation of animals and about the issue of seeking consent in respect of essential property. In the debate, the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SAB, Desus and Levica groups to Article 1 proposed an amendment and a new definition of animals as sentient living beings was first presented. The discussion below focused mainly on the definition of animals as sentient living beings. Some Members and Members expressed their views on this issue and some expressed their support for the amendment. The discussion also highlighted the changes in the level of property and the institution of non-possessive flag rights. It was pointed out that the change in the direct enforceability of the non-obsessive flag right agreement could lead to the misappropriation of creditors, as some institutions of real and insolvency law have in the past made possible. Representatives of the Ministry of Justice made further clarifications on the issues raised in the debate. In particular, it was explained that changes in the level of property solve some of the problems that have arisen in practice. In the case of the institution of non-obsessive flag rights, the possibility of its application is expanded and the immediate enforceability of the agreement is not disabled. The Committee then adopted the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SAB, Desus and Levica parliamentary groups to Article 1 as well as amendments to Articles 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 17, 21, 22 and 25 of the draft law. However, the Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SNS MP to Article 1. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Magi shall have the floor. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u46	President, thank you so much for your word. Madam Minister, fellow Members of Parliament! In the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, real relations are governed by the Real Law Code, which entered into force on 1 January 2003. So far, it has only been amended once, in 2013 by the Law on Amendments to the Real Law, which repealed the rules on land debt. The proposed changes in the new CAPB follow the needs of modern business transport. The proposed additions to essential property and the new arrangements for related real estates will allow for the regulation of relations that are already being established in business and life practice, but with the help of others, for this purpose less appropriate institutions of real law. Thus, the proposal for a novel of the Real Law Code brings the following major solutions. The area of property and property of similar positions is being renovated or upgraded. The register of non-sustainable flags and rounded movements shall be renewed. As a result, there will be faster and more up-to-date registration. Once the register is redesigned, the Apes function will be limited to registry operators and will be provided by qualified beneficiaries themselves: notaries, courts, bankruptcy managers, executors. However, the Register of Non-Sustainable Flag Rights will be directly linked to other registers such as the Central Population Register, the Business Register, the Tax Register. In the case of the performance of public service, the proposal removes the time limit applicable to the wrongs of real service. Such service may also be established for a period exceeding 30 years. Such service may therefore be established on the basis of a proposal for an indefinite period of time, as long as the management of the economic public infrastructure lying in or on immovable property under this service is necessary for the provision of public services. It also lays down the basis for transferring the unfairness of real service to the public benefit of the new operator of such an undertaking, without the need for the new manager to manage the economic public infrastructure to the public benefit to re-establish the service contracts with the owners of the property. At the beginning of February of this year, the Coalition Members of the Justice Committee adopted a supplement that makes animals sensitive to living beings. Certainly, Slovenian society has also in recent years been aware that animals are sensitive beings, there is no doubt about that, but it would be appropriate to define this in the Animal Protection Act rather than in the Real Law. Some other laws, such as the Law on Enforcement and Insurance and the Law on Succession, will be amended in the future as a result of this change. The proposed solutions contained in the current amendment to the Real Law Code, we need to find out, are not optimal, which is why we cannot support the proposed novel in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u48	Nicely greeted! Thank you for your word. We have before us the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Law. Among other things, the proposal also removes some of the shortcomings of the current rules, as since the last novelty in life practice some relationships have been formed with the help of other, fewer cases of the institutions of real law. In the case of re-establishment of the floor property and of the property of similar positions, changes shall govern the situation where a particular part of the building or property is intended for the common use of multiple floor owners or the common use of the floor owners and, for example, the owner of the other property. For example, such a space has been played by both the high-level owners and the owners of individual houses in the neighborhood. The proposal also regulates a new real estate relationship – the institute of related properties. The latter regulates frequent problems in neighborhoods of single-family houses with a common functional land, of which all owners are joint owners. Cases of inactive or unknown co-owners are being resolved in relation to the management of the property. The bill gives active co-owners whose co-ownership share represents more than half the possibility of extraordinary co-ownership management when the court approves the transaction. A register of non-constant flags and occupied properties will also be renovated and updated, allowing users to enter data more quickly through qualified electronic signatures and allowing the public better access to the data. The legal basis for the establishment of a non-obsessive flag right on the movables and on the equipment is also changed, and the restoration of real service and building rights is expected. And that's it. Finally, the value of the legal definition of animals is changed. According to the current Law, animals are, believe it or not, still things. However, according to the definition of a valid Real Law Code, the individual body object can control. And how can we establish a universal responsibility to animals if the Real Law Code still defines them and places them in the same category as, for example, a chair, a table or a pencil? What can you do if you do something ugly, irresponsible, if you don't look after it, ignore it, or eventually leave it by the road? What can anyone do to you? They're fighting a little. Although the animals are in fact in the field legislation already receiving special legal protection and cannot really be equated with the situation of movables, yet in the Real Law Code there are animals of things. However, the awareness of a good attitude towards animals is changing in both Slovenia and the wider Europe and the world for the better. It is also right to follow the example of some European countries with comparable legal arrangements by regulating the legal situation of animals. As early as 2007, the Lisbon Treaty recognized them as sensitive beings in the original sentimental beings. Therefore, at the meeting of the working body, Members of the LMŠ, together with SD, SAB, Desus and Levico, tabled an amendment to Article 1 of the bill, amended Article 15a, and added the word sensitive to the definition. Animals also become in the Slovenian legal order finally sensitive living beings. This is a first step, and in the future, there will certainly be a need for further amendments to the sectoral legislation, such as the Animal Act, which will define the status of sentient living beings more precisely. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Madam Secretary! Dear Members and Members! Animals are sensitive creatures. If we ignore them, they suffer. If we hit them, they don't give a shit. If we treat them well, they are grateful. It is high time that in the Real Law, in the basic act of civil law, animals are defined by what they are — sentient living beings. Social Democrats have been fighting for the welfare of animals for many years. At the beginning of this term alone, I drew attention to the inadequate regulation of the definition of animal protection and welfare at the hearings of the Minister for Agriculture and Justice. In order to improve the situation of animals, I have put forward several questions and initiatives: to increase the punishment of animal torturers, to eliminate chains and inappropriate dogs, to prohibit euthanasia of healthy animals, to prohibit pyrotechnics, to ban enforcement on pet animals, and to propose a change in the definition of animal owners. However, I have also put forward a parliamentary initiative to change the legal definition of animals. And I am extremely glad that most of the members of the group recognized the need to take this important step, and supported the amendment that clearly defined animals as not things, but sensitive living beings. I believe that we all agree here today that animals are not things and that such a concept is meant to be in the past tense. The Treaty of Lisbon, a fundamental act of the European Union, provides that animals are sensitive beings. In recent years, Austria, Germany and Switzerland have introduced a specific legal position of animals in their civil codes. Portugal and France wrote in their code that animals are sensitive beings. Slovenian Constitutional Judges also highlighted the constitutional aspect of the need to respect the welfare of animals as sensitive beings. Otherwise, we are aware that this change cannot, must not be and cannot be enough, but is a step and a basis for further necessary and urgent changes to the sectoral legislation. Therefore, we do not believe that this is just a symbolic change, but in our view a change that will in the long run ensure that the animals in our legal order actually have a special social position. For example, so far, or in many cases, it has been interpreted that if an animal is poisoned, it is not necessarily a matter of torturing animals, but rather of harming other animals. Or take specific cases that often happen during summertime, such as when animals are kept locked in hot cars and if someone wants to save them, they are responsible for harming other things because they would damage the vehicle to save the animal. Because strictly the right animal and car are moving things, which is absurd. That's why it's time for change. And I am confident that this will also be followed by a case-law whereby discarding animal treatment will no longer be considered as an injury to a foreign matter, but will be an animal of a sensitive living being who deserves special legal protection. As a result, discards against animals will also be sanctioned by sharps. However, the change in the definition of animals will not have a direct effect on the provisions of specific laws governing the breeding or hunting of animals, the use of pesticides and the like. And it is absolutely nomo-technically appropriate to place this provision in the Real Law Code, because otherwise the sectoral legislation will not be harmonised. It is therefore inappropriate to seek the reasons for these issues for possible non-supporting a new definition and also for efforts to improve animal welfare. Although the Social Democrats in this position on the proposed amendments to the Code point out concern for the welfare of animals, we do not want to overlook the fact that this proposal also brings about other important changes. I am talking about the urgently needed changes in relation to essential property, the register of non-obsessive flags, the right to real service and building rights. In the case of public service, this may also be established for a period of more than 30 years, even for an indefinite period of time. Even in the case of building rights, this mandatory time limit of 99 years, which has been in force so far, may be extended indefinitely. We believe that these changes will significantly facilitate procedures in practice. Social Democrats are aware that not only politics, but society as a whole, is still an extremely long and difficult process ahead of us. That is why we do not pretend that only one, although an important legal provision in the Real Law, will be sufficient for the effective protection of animals. This will have to be followed by comprehensive revisions of the sectoral legislation, as well as better public awareness that animals are our concern and not our own. Of course, the Social Democrats will support the Proposal for Amendments and the Complementation of the Real Law Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u52	In the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, property relations between individuals or real-law relations are governed by the Real Law Code, which entered into force on 1 January 2003, and has been amended only once so far, in 2013. According to the opinion of the Court of Justice and the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia, the law in force is good and in practice allows for the development of real law and does not cause major problems. Therefore, despite the fact that the amendments of the Ministry of Justice have already begun to be prepared in the previous mandate under the SMC-led minister, we are not entirely convinced that some of the proposed changes are necessary at all, and the question is also raised as to what the effects of these changes or what new practice will develop. The Ministry of Justice argues that the approach to change has been delayed and that some innovative solutions from the previous mandate drawn up by a narrow group of legal experts have not been taken into account. In the SMC, we hope that the proposer had a happy hand and that the proposed changes, for example, if we expose the essential property and the arrangements of the related properties and others, will not cause new problems for both owners and creditors, and will not merely represent a new business for specialised law firms. We regret that the entire debate on the proposed solutions to the Code has focused only on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article, which provides that animals are not things but sensitive living beings and that their protection is governed by specific laws. Especially because the last proposal is not new. In the previous term, in the List of Andrej Cuz and Green Slovenia, in cooperation with civil society and with the support of animal rights societies, they tabled the amendment of the Real Law Code with similar content. Although the draft law was not discussed by the National Assembly, the Government has adopted an opinion in which it wrote, I quote: “The Government welcomes the efforts of the proposer to improve the situation and ensure greater protection of animals as sensitive beings, but opposes the proposal for a law because it considers that the proposed solutions are not subject to regulation in the Real Law Code. In doing so, the Real Law does not constitute a barrier to the other (in relation to the Real Law) special law, which also governs the field of animals, by removing them from such a definition. It would also be more appropriate to include only the proposed general definition of animals in the Special Law on the Protection of Animals.” End of quote. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we have only followed the opinion that was supported in the previous government by all the then coalition partners who were proposing the amendment. In the SMC, we have already demonstrated in the past that we are seeking greater legal protection of animals. In the previous mandate, we have allowed, through the participation of the competent ministry under the leadership of the SMC, a new amendment to the Code of Penalties was adopted on the proposal of the Left, stipulating that cruel treatment, torture and the organisation of animal control is absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable and that these cases are punishable as a crime. We have no doubt in the SMC that animals are able to feel, so we are defending their special legal protection, which is also referred to several times in the Protocol (No. 33) on the protection and welfare of animals to the so-called Treaty of Lisbon. With regard to the said Protocol, we would like to point out that it concerns both animal protection and animal welfare and that it is primarily intended for agriculture, fisheries, transport, research and not as much concern for domestic animals as is highlighted. The objective of the Treaty of Lisbon was to establish even higher standards for the protection and welfare of farm animals and animals used for scientific experiments. In the SMC, we will not object to writing down the definition mentioned in the Real Law Code, but note that only definition does not affect the legal situation of animals, as they will continue to be treated equally – it is possible to buy them, sell them, and put them on edge. If we really want to change something about animal treatment, we should cut into other articles of the Code. In the SMC, for example, we advocate a limitation on the possibility of flag and rube – if we recall a recent bizarre case of selling cats in the enforcement process. In the SMC, we still believe that the definition of animals should be laid down in the Animal Protection Act, which lays down as a cover law the responsibility of people to protect animals, protect their lives, health and welfare. To this end, in the previous government, we have demanded coalition coordination of the novel, where we have proposed a new definition and, of course, new measures to protect them. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we expect this government or the competent department to prepare or propose these amendments to the Animal Protection Act. In the SMC Group, the proposal for a code will be supported by the majority of members and members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Despite the fact that the number of articles does not constitute an extensive novelty, this nevertheless interferes with a sensitive relationship. The essential part of the bill refers to changes in the regulation of property and related properties. Among the main solutions are the renovations of the floor property and the essential property of similar positions and the renewal of the register of non-obstantial flags and rounded movements. In the case of public service, the government novelty removes the time limit applicable to the wrongs of real service. Both amendments follow the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. In view of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service in Levica, we are somewhat skeptical of the proposed solutions, for example with regard to the solution relating to administrative operations in multi-housing buildings. We know what the problem is sometimes in practice. For some repairs or other transactions it is almost impossible to obtain the consent of a sufficient number of high-level owners. In addition, there are solutions such as the extension of the use of the Institute of Important Property and, above all, the establishment of the Institute of Associated Property and the termination of the time period of building rights. There are also some open questions here, and we can only hope that these solutions in practice will no longer lead to negative and positive consequences. As an extremely important novelty in Levica, we see a definition of the status of animals that no longer allow their treatment as if they were things. No, animals aren't things, of course. Regrettably, there were problems in the dictatorship itself, as the government, in its first proposal for the amendment of the law, wanted to erase the doctrine that animals are sensitive living beings and insisted on the definition that animals are living beings. Meanwhile, members of the Committee of the Left, LMŠ, SD, SAB and Desus succeeded with a supplement which redefined animals as sensitive living beings. The amendment of these parties is an important step towards a comprehensive regulation of sectoral legislation and sub-legislative acts. Step one. It's a place to start. Prohibition of all industrial practices that cause suffering to animals, strengthening inspection and so on are measures which must necessarily follow the regulation of the relevant status of animals as sentient living beings. Just determining or legalizing the fact that animals are alive and not sensitive beings is nothing. Such a provision would have no effect, no consequences. It is right that in the first step we change the Real Law Code and then the Animal Protection Act, which will be based on the definition of the Real Law, in a way that defines animals as sensitive living beings, which is ultimately defined by the Treaty of Lisbon. In Levica, the law will be very small because of this appearance, but in fact, the great historical redefinition in the definition of animals as sentient living beings as beings who will no longer have the status of things will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Common sense says that animals are sentient living beings, but here is of course the question why this doctrine is placed in the Real Law Code, if we say at the same time that these animals are not things. The animal welfare and protection issue is covered by the Animal Protection Act. Article 341 of the Code of Penalties for the Torture of Animals also provides for up to three years in prison. In addition, the Constitution provides for the protection of animals against torture, which, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, means that the Constitution does not permit animals to cause suffering, disease or death without a legitimate reason. It is certainly the responsibility of the responsible owner of the animals to take proper care of them and not to torment them and that these animals have a decent condition for life. As I have already mentioned, the writing in the Real Law Code seems to us to some extent ineffective because this will not yet be regulated in the field law. In New Slovenia, we are also wondering what legal consequences this will have for the relationship or legal status of animals, what consequences it will have on agriculture, livestock and the like. It seems questionable to us that there is an arrangement that would blur some boundaries between humans and animals. We certainly need to be very careful about this and write it down correctly. In New Slovenia, we support the possible tightening of provisions that exacerbate the penalties for animal torture and their more effective prosecution. We are concerned about the intention of the applicants, as such a record must not go to the detriment of agriculture. What can happen is that in a few years in Slovenia we will deal with the question of whether farmers in the barn can still raise cattle, poultry and poultry. Is this an attack on animal sensitivity? In New Slovenia, we will continue to strive to preserve our countryside in the future, to preserve our traditional way of life. This amendment of the Real Law Code is only one of the many amendments that the amendment of the Code brings. The key question that we are asked about these changes is whether changes to the Real Law are indeed in favour of the owners of apartments, the owners of flats and properties along with the ownership of these buildings. We are also asked whether the adoption of amendments to the Code can also lead to the playing of creditors. In its legal opinion, the Law-Legal Service also stated its concerns about the proposed solutions to the Code: "The bill of the Code regulates, inter alia, the recast of the floor property and the new real-law relationship, which is similar to the real-estate property ratio. This is a new system institute, which is closely linked to the Land Book Act and the Housing Act, and therefore all related laws, relations between them and the necessary amendments to these laws should be considered simultaneously.” We cannot support the proposed Real Law Code because of all of the above-mentioned Members of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear President! A real law code governs the fundamental principles of real law and the relationship between things that people use among themselves. It is a fairly stable code in the sense that it rarely changes and that it is considered a quality law in the public and in the profession. This time, however, the Ministry of Justice has decided to move towards change, as some shortcomings or inconsistencies have been demonstrated in practice that could be considered to be improved or remedied. In particular, the consequences of the change in legislation in the area of space, and in practice there are also social relations or situations that need to be re-organized at the legal level. As has been said many times before, the substance of the Government's proposal for changes to the Real Law Code is mainly in upgrading the property and similar positions, in changing the registry system, non-constant flags, changing the wrongs of real services to public benefit and building rights. It also provides for the possibility that the performance of public service may also be established for a period longer than the currently prescribed 30 years and repeals provisions restricting the building right to 99 years. Major changes include, in particular, the modernisation of the regulation of the floor property, particularly in situations where a particular part of the building or land is intended for the common use of the floor owners. According to the proposal, such cases are treated as a common part that is in the hands of all the high-level owners and buildings, or in the delight of all the high-level owners and owners of the property. Some problems in managing co-ownership items are also being addressed. In particular, there are cases of inactive or unknown co-owners. Under the proposed arrangement, the active owners will be subject to exceptional co-administration at the time of approval of the transaction by the court. That must be a welcome change. Most of the controversy in this law was about the definition of animals as a sentient being. The Ministry included the diction of animals as sentient living beings in the original proposal, and later, because of disagreements in the Government, this was deleted from the original proposal. However, there was a greater consensus here in the National Assembly, and the Justice Committee has adopted an amendment that brings this proposal back to the provisions of the Code. We have also gladly supported this amendment in the SAB Group, because we believe that it represents a step in the right direction and also represents a distinction between ordinary things – chairs, tables and others – and animals in this code. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union also lays down that animals are sensitive beings in Article 13. In 2018, the Constitutional Court also stressed the importance of animal welfare. The inclusion of this provision in the Real Law Code means that there is some inclusion in the programming standards, but it is also an important message to society that animals are not things and that their welfare needs to be cared for differently than we care about the welfare of physical, other things. It will also guide the legislator in amending other legislation in this area, which is still necessary. First of all, it will be necessary to change the definition of roof law, which is in the Animal Protection Act. The inclusion of this provision in the Real Law Code is therefore the first step towards improving the situation of animals in society, and because we believe that all steps towards greater humanisation of society – this means the development of a modern society in the right direction – we have listened to this proposal in the SAB Group. If I finish, in the SAB Group we will support the changes to the Real Law Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with staff, colleagues and colleagues! The real law will become more modern by adopting this novel. More extensive updates are aimed at improving or modernising business traffic with real estate and also mobile goods. One major change is dedicated to the upgrading of the institution of the floor property, namely the Institute of Associated Property. The new regulation of related properties is complementary to the regulation already provided for by the Law on the regulation of premises. This law has already provided for the establishment of such real-law relations, which ensure that ownership in all land plots representing the building plot is carried over in its entirety. Supplementary properties include, for example, playgrounds, common import routes, parking lots, similar land in multi-housing neighbourhoods serving other, main property. Therefore, these properties are inseparably linked, and it makes sense for them to be connected in legal traffic or, if you want, a mutually dependent whole. In the area of co-ownership, the novelty proposal focuses on solving a number of common real estate management problems when we have inactive owners on one side or even unknown to them. On the basis of the proposal before us, active co-owners, whose total share exceeds half, will also be able to manage the matter in a broader sense, i.e. they will also have it if the court approves such a deal. The proposal further lays down a specific legal rule on the cessation of illegal real service where it is established for the benefit of a person who operates an economic public infrastructure for public benefit and is established a service for the purposes of managing that infrastructure. This news takes due account of the comments made by the Court of Auditors. It is suggested that the service may be established for a period of more than 30 years or even for an indefinite period of time. However, the shortcomings of the current regulation shall also be addressed when the economic service provider is replaced. The new operator will not have to re-establish the service rights with the owners of the property. It is also a welcome change to understand the re-examination of the register of non-observable flags and entanglements. Users will be able to make entries faster and more efficient through the application and will allow the public to better see all the data. Another important revision of the Real Law Code is not so extensive, but due to its content, it required much more general public attention as well. In view of the fact that the animals in our legal order are still lawfully dealt with, the definition of animal status offered by the amended proposal of the law can be understood as an upgrade to the existing constitutional and legal norms through the prism of modern social perceptions corresponding to the civilizational characteristics of the 21st century. The record of this valuable provision that an animal is not a thing, but a sensitive living being has undoubtedly followed established jurisprudence. The majority of Desus Members consider this symbolic record to be a reflection of the awareness that animals cannot be equated with things because they are living beings and as such capable of feeling, feeling warm or cold, hungry or satisfied, pain or relief, fear or satisfaction, in short, I can say that they are probably very similar to the feelings that people experience with the same positive or negative irritations or influences. What will be the future legal dimensions of the impact on the newly defined status of certain species of animals, but of course it is up to us. The Penal Code and the Animal Protection Act have already laid down clear rules on how an animal should not be treated. It may be appropriate here to ask whether, under existing legislation, the competent authorities have sufficient tools to control and punish offenders more effectively than they are at this time. In the Desus Group, we are aware that the recognition of legal status in the real field will, of course, require further broad social and professional debate in other areas where the legal situation of animals, their care and legal relations with them would be meaningful and necessary. Among the more exposed areas, agriculture, particularly livestock, is likely to be one of the areas. Although the extreme movements of various activists who try to impose their beliefs on animal rights in one way or another are, according to the majority of Desus's Members, irrelevant to the way we feed ourselves, are irrelevant. The Desus Group of the novels of the Real Law provides majority support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u62	Good day to you all! Today we have a real law in front of us. The contents of this law would be divided into professional and political parts. To the criticism of the section, I would say that the Legislative and Legal Service has issued an opinion expressing reasonable concerns about the proposed amendments. We fully accept these concerns. While the law regulates certain new system institutes, it does not adapt the other laws to these changes. We believe that this is not the right way because it causes gaps in the legal order system. Why did the drafter fail to take due account of the experts’ comments? As part of the public’s adoption phase, prominent professors who deal exclusively with this legal area were involved, but their professional criticism was practically carried out by the proposer. In this context, we are primarily referring to the definition of the separate and inclusive property rights that are necessary for the proper definition of the existing institution and its upgrading. As for the political part of this law, however, this criticism refers to the fact that animals are not things. The fact is, we have a real law in front of us. We have a real code ahead of us. Each name already says that real law provides authority in relation to other individuals, and the subject matter of that authority is as part of the material world. This kind of placement in the Real Law Code is wrong. The current dictatorship was introduced with an amendment and is different from the motioner's. The fact is that this dictatorship has practically been imposed by a feminist political lobby dealing with everything but the serious problems we have in the country. Not with that. We add that animals cannot be subject or approach the fact that they have neither the understanding nor the free will nor the ability to create cultures. We can't treat them the same way we treat our fellow man. The legal status of animals should be regulated in other laws such as the Animal Protection Act, the Veterinary Act. We note that this new system definition can lead to problems in agriculture and livestock. Since we are against such changes, we have, of course, responded appropriately with a concrete amendment. The expected amendment was not accepted. As far as I know, the vast majority of the current Assembly's reference to this feminist amendment agrees. On the other hand, I'm looking forward to it. I'll tell you why. So animals aren't things, they're sentient living things. I repeat, sentient living beings. We are waiting for information on how many animal torture complaints the candidates of this amendment will file against the halal ritual. Now it's not a hindrance. And there's a supplement. We all remember the Bulmastif affair. We know exactly who defended the case and tried to silence it. At this point, I wonder whether Bulmastif has suffered or perhaps enjoyed the act as a sensitive living creature and which expert will assess it. In our view, qualified amendment candidates are qualified for such a task, and I also ask them what they will do in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, 5 March 2020, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law supplementing the Constitutional Court Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Jožet Tank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all, especially the ministers and coworkers! We have tabled this amendment to the Constitutional Court Act in the parliamentary group, namely that we have proposed an amendment or only one amendment, namely Article 23rd of the law, which specifies who the applicants may be, and we then supplement this proposal in that regard. Under this Article, 11 potential candidates are required to assess the legality or constitutionality of the Constitutional Court, of which 10 are institutions, including: the National Assembly, the State Council, the Government, the Ombudsman, the Information Officer, the Bank of Slovenia, including representative trade unions and representative associations of self-government local communities, of course, may also be brought by the Attorney General and perhaps by some other institutions. In particular, this Article also lists a group of 30 Members who can make such a request, but there is a significant difference. As a rule, institutions do not run out of time, while a third of Members of Parliament, applicants, may change, as a rule, mainly due to elections. In fact, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly considered the constitutionality requirement, when the Members with 30 signatures have submitted them, that the hearing has not been concluded within the current term, but that the decision of the Constitutional Court has also been carried over to the next term of office. In doing so, the court has established the practice that the moment when the number of signatories falls below 30 — and this happens quickly in each election, since it usually changes from a third to two thirds of the Member State’s body — that is also the case. In doing so, I can only recall that it is difficult to collect 30 signatures of the opposition, as a rule by members of the opposition, because it is difficult to get more Members of the parliamentary groups, who generally have a very different view of the individual provisions of the laws or of the laws themselves. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we were of the view that this provision should be regulated in some way, improved, it is said that a condition sufficient to deal with the request in the Constitutional Court has already been met when the request is made, that is to say that these 30 signatures would have been made at the time the request is made and then the procedure would have been completed and would not have been terminated, regardless of whether the mandates have been terminated and the number of signatories below 30 would have fallen. Some amendments have also come to consider this bill, which have further improved our proposed text. I think that this regulation, which is now provided for in the amended proposal for a law, is better because it prevents the Constitutional Court from merely deciding whether or not the proceedings will continue or determine whether the conditions are met after the specified requirement has already been made. When we are Members or when Members are unable to deal with this, important social issues are not resolved. For the purpose of submitting a request for constitutional review is to decide with a neutral arbitrator whether or not the matter is consistent with the Constitution. In these cases, when the interruption took place, the constitutional issues which were the subject of the request remained unresolved. This bill is supported by both the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service. We are aware that these solutions are better, and I thank all those who have participated in the process, in support of the hearing, and also with proposals to supplement the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thanks again for saying that. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Constitutional Court was considered by the Committee on Justice as a working body at its 13th meeting on 6 February 2020. Mr Tanko stressed in the supplementary explanation that the aim of the bill is to provide procedural assumptions for the continuation of the procedure by requiring an assessment of constitutionality and legality in the event that a Member ceases his mandate. This would not affect the Member's right to withdraw his signature for a request as part of his decision in the course of the exercise of his mandate and cannot do so after the end of his term of office, since he is no longer a Member. In its supplementary explanation, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the proposal for a Constitutional Court Act complemented the provisions of procedural assumptions necessary in the constitutional dispute for the substantive examination of the requirement for an abstract assessment of a provision submitted by a third of Members. Since a group of 30 Members comes from opposition parliamentary groups as a rule, the Constitutional Court's substantive decision in these constitutional disputes constitutes one of the mechanisms of the system of brakes and balances, which is important for the implementation of the rule of law and the principle of the division of power. The review of constitutional disputes following mandates shows an increase in the percentage of discards of these requirements. Thus, in the last term, no substantive decision has been taken at all. The Legislative and Legal Service also considers that substantive decisions in these cases could also be made through the meaningful use of existing procedural institutions, which are used meaningfully in the constitutional dispute. However, given the principle of clarity and the certainty of the rules, it is more appropriate to regulate the specific situation of a group of Members directly in the Special Law on the Constitutional Court. In explanation of the Government's opinion, the proposal was supported by Justice Minister Andrej Katič, and the proposed law was also supported by the Commission of the State Council for State Procedure. In the debate of Members and Members, it was pointed out that the proposed amendment was a solution to the situation in which a group of Members and Members could be found, requesting an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of an act. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the draft law as amendments to the Committee and thus the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 1 and 2 of the Act became irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Andrei Katič, Minister of Justice, who conducts ongoing business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u68	Your Honor! Today you are considering the proposal for a law supplementing the Constitutional Court Act. This is the third substantive amendment of this law following the 2007 amendment and the 2012 amendment. Today's proposal focuses on the situation with regard to the treatment of requirements for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of laws and other regulations submitted by a third of Members or Members of the National Assembly. In the opinion of the Government, it is also inappropriate to rule on the requirements of a third of Members, since the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia may subsequently, after a considerable period of time, check the conditions for their submission and assess whether any signatory to the request is no longer a Member and, if there is no longer a third of the Members associated with the request submitted, reject such a request. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia also rejects the requirement of constitutionality at the time of the decision of the Constitutional Court when a third of the members of the old Assembly have made a request. We believe that the bill is necessary in terms of respect for the values of both constitutional democracy and parliamentary democracy. The requirements for the assessment of constitutionality and legality are, according to the Government, the legal instrument of the parliamentary minority, which can potentially strengthen constitutionality in Slovenia. This means that a parliamentary minority, i.e. a third of the Members, can, by means of a constitutional assessment, achieve in particular the repeal of certain non-constitutional legal provisions in the constitutional review procedure before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and thereby strengthen constitutionality in Slovenia. The Constitution in Slovenia can specifically strengthen constitutional assessment requirements in the following ways: in terms of strengthening the enjoyment and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rights of vulnerable groups, the rights of workers and workers, legal security or the division of power. The Government considers that, in the absence of the signatures of a third of its Members, a request for a constitutional assessment by one of the signatories should continue to be taken into account during the term of its term of office or at the same time and should continue with the Constitutional Court's substantive constitutional assessment, which means that, in respect of the number of signatories, conditions or conditions should be notified as at the time of the submission of the request for an assessment of constitutionality or legality. The same should apply when the Constitutional Court decides on the request of a third of the Members of the old Assembly at the time of the convening of the new National Assembly. The text of the bill was supplemented by amendments at the meeting of the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly, including an amendment to take account of legal changes to the requirements already tabled, thus allowing legal certainty. The adoption of the amendment also eliminated the ambiguities in the draft law to which the Government had pointed. The Government supports and believes that it will strengthen constitutional and parliamentary democracy in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u70	Good-bye! Thank you, Vice President, for your word. The initiative to assess the constitutionality of an individual regulation is one of the most important mechanisms in the system of brakes and balances. With this institution, the Constitutional Court is actually watching over the constitutionality and legality of the rules adopted by the legislative body, i.e. the National Assembly. In order for such an institution, which is urgently needed for an effective rule of law, to justify its role – namely, all three branches of government are also supervised within their respective competences – it must be effective. The effectiveness of such control should therefore not be undermined, not because of any changed formal or substantive situation, but because of a formal situation which does not affect the existence of a legal interest which we know must exist that the Constitutional Court takes any initiative into substantive consideration. The procedural assumptions for the merits of the substantive examination of this initiative are interpreted very restrictively by the Constitutional Court and, therefore, there have already been anomalies in the decision-making process in the past. Today, while we are in a position to find a group of Members and Members who make a request for an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of a regulation, in the course of the Constitutional Court's decision, they lose their position as Members as a result of a new call by the National Assembly. It is enough that a Member's position loses one of them. As a result, the practice of the Constitutional Court so far has been such that this group of Members and Members has lost their legal interest in this new amended fact and their assessment initiative has therefore been rejected. As it is said, we are saving this anomaly today, but we would like to point out in this place in the LMŠ Group, for example, that the initiatives of individuals who have dealt with important rights of citizens and citizens have been rejected for exactly the same reason as I mentioned, because the individual has changed his status during the Constitutional Court’s decision-making process — where we know that the decision-making procedures are not short. For example, the student was no longer a student because in the meantime, he completed his studies at the time of the Constitutional Court’s decision. His role was also rejected by the Constitutional Court on the ground that he no longer had a legal interest. So an important legal or constitutional issue was left without a substantive judgement because either the Constitutional Court ruled too slowly or this student studied too quickly. Here, too, in our view, there is a similar anomaly to that which we are eliminating today, so we will also have to make an appropriate change in this area if we are to maintain fully the effectiveness of this institution, i.e. initiatives to assess the constitutionality and legality of the regulation that natural persons can also make. Of course, we welcome today's solution to the LMŠ Group and we will also unanimously support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let me just say in the introduction that the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the Constitutional Court Act. And let me continue. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states in Article 162 that proceedings before the Constitutional Court are governed by law, which is the Constitutional Court Act, which provides for who may initiate an administrative dispute or who may request an assessment of the constitutionality or legality of a regulation or general act. In addition to the Government, the National Assembly, the Council of State, the Bank of Slovenia and other applicants, a third of Members may apply. As already stated by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion, it is primarily an institution served by members of the opposition, a legal instrument of the parliamentary minority, which ensures the protection and security of the individual's personal freedom, the prevention of concentration and monopoly of authority, and the establishment of control over authority, thereby preventing the use of will, abuse of power and injustice, the meaningful allocation of State tasks and powers, and the establishment of mutual control of the authorities and the maintenance of balance and uniformly distributed power between the branches of government and their institutions. In accordance with the practice of the Constitutional Court, the submission of a request by 30 Members is linked to their mandate in the National Assembly. This is not the case with the other applicants, since the right to submit a request is granted to the Authority or the institution as one with a permanent mandate. The review of the requirements submitted thus shows an increase in the proportion of the requests rejected by the Constitutional Court in view of the termination of the mandate of individual Members or the termination of the term of office of the General Assembly. It is therefore, of course, entirely justified to require the applicant to align the situation of Members as a candidate of the constitutionality requirement with other applicants. In the coalition, we have drawn up amendments to the Committee, which clearly stated that the Constitutional Court is continuing the procedure even when the number of Members in the procedure is reduced to a third of all Members due to the termination of the mandate of individual Members, and the period of time of the national assembly ends during the hearing procedure. It is also now clearly stated in the amendment of the law that the Constitutional Court is continuing all procedures in which it has not yet been decided, in accordance with the amendment of this law, which today is also announced by support. We believe that the proposed amendment will have a significant impact on the strengthening of the rule of law and the principle of the division of power, and we will therefore unanimously support the proposed amendment of the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u74	The Group of Members and Members proposes otherwise to regulate the right of a third of Members and Members of the National Assembly to apply for the assessment of the constitutionality or legality of a regulation or general act issued for the exercise of public powers. Applicants shall draw attention to the practice of the Constitutional Court in cases where the number of signatories to a constitutional or legal requirement no longer includes a third of Members and Members, in cases of individual termination of the term of office of a Member or a Member, or the termination of the term of office of the Assembly, the requirements for the assessment of constitutionality or legality shall be rejected without the court deciding on them in substance. Members and Members believe that the intention of the Constitutional Law Institute to require the assessment of constitutionality or legality is that the right of Members and Members to submit requests cannot be eliminated by the duration of the proceedings before the Court, so they propose to supplement the arrangements for procedural assumptions necessary in the constitutional dispute for the substantive examination of the requirement for the assessment of a regulation submitted by a third of Members and Members. In the SMC Group, we support the bill because the proposed solutions were supported by both the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which pointed out that the Constitutional Court's substantive decision on constitutional disputes – for which the Court in recent years, due to those rejections for procedural reasons, almost no longer decides on the requirements of Members – constitutes one of the mechanisms of the system of brakes and balances which is important for the implementation of the rule of law and the principle of the division of power, and is therefore applicable to enforce it through the amendment of the law. In the SMC Group, we point out that this fact, the rejection of the demands of the Group of Members and Members, is not a result of the law, but merely an interpretation of the Constitutional Court Act by the Constitutional Court itself, which decided in 2008 and 2009 that Members will be treated as qualified but informally formed by the temporary existence of their mandate, and when this mandate is concluded, their existence as candidates also ends. It follows from that interpretation that the course of the Authority's mandate or the change in its personal composition affect the ability to be a party. However, this applies only to the group of Members, but not to the body as such. In spite of the above, the Constitutional Court nevertheless permits the examination of the requests made by the National Assembly, although its mandate has expired or its composition has changed completely. This interpretation of the law is unusual if I use a very mild term, since the National Assembly almost never appears as a proposal for a regulation assessment. Otherwise, it is only when the referendums are assessed on the basis of Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. In fact, the Law on the Constitutional Court states that the National Assembly of Laws cannot contest them at all because it itself has accepted them. Moreover, only those Members who opposed or did not vote on the draft law may request a constitutional review. So a minority and not a majority of Members. From here also the solution in the law in force that a group of 30 Members may make a request. In the SMC Group, we point out that – taking into account the length of procedures that last more than three years and almost as long as the mandate of the National Assembly – the Constitutional Court, with such interpretation to a group of 30 Members, actually takes away the possibility of initiating a procedure to assess constitutionality and legality, since such a requirement can only be made in a disproportionately short period of time after the election to the National Assembly, and any later application is already burdened by uncertainty as to the fulfilment of procedural assumptions. Such a restriction on the number of eligible applicants to submit a request for an assessment of constitutionality and legality cannot serve the fundamental purpose to be pursued by the initiation of these procedures, namely to ensure that the rules adopted by the National Assembly are consistent with constitutional principles and that they protect fundamental human rights and freedoms or are consistent with the Constitution. Since the limited unusual interpretation of the Constitutional Court Act has been enforced and does not show that the Constitutional Court will simply change it, the National Assembly therefore has no other option than to provide that the termination of the term of office of a member co-proposing the request does not affect the continuation of proceedings before the Constitutional Court before the end of the term of office of the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u76	Your Honor! Today's Proposal for a Law supplementing the Constitutional Court Act refers to the situation where a group of Members and Members to the Constitutional Court submits an application for a constitutional review and the Constitutional Court does not then resolve the requirements during the term of office and then rejects the matter within the next term because of the so-called manoeuvring of qualified candidates. This is especially the case when it comes to important and sensitive social issues. The material points out that 33 % of the constitutional review requirements submitted to the Constitutional Court in the mandate of 2004-2008 have been rejected for the period 2008-2011 already 50 % of such requirements, in the mandate of 2011-2014 80 %, while in the previous mandate they have simply rejected all the requirements. In Levica, we have already pointed out these problems at the constitutional requirement for a review of the law on fertilisation with biomedical aid, specifically with regard to the constitutionality of a solution which denies fertilisation with biomedical assistance to single women. After the Constitutional Court had waited twice for the mandate of the Members who so requested to be terminated and then rejected the request, at the end of the decision, it was found that, under the request of the Members who had been signed, they could have amended the law governing the issue. Such a practice of the Constitutional Court constitutes a major flaw in the existing regime, which certainly requires the changes we are talking about today. The constitutionality requirement, this institution, is, after all, an important institution of the opposition, which is used in rare cases when it comes to the serious issues of the current governments, and it is not something that would be used at all. This is clear from the fact that it is necessary to collect the signatures of 30 Members, while only 20 Members are required to amend the Constitution. It is also clear from practice that we are talking here about exceptions and not the rule. In the wake of this, Members of the Left will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. A group of 30 members of the National Assembly may apply to the Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality of the regulation. In the case of the Constitutional Court, the view was drawn that, in the event of the termination of the term of office of Members in such a way that the number of signatories to the application falls below 30, the court no longer examines and rejects the application. This can only happen because the Constitutional Court has not decided until the end of the term of office of the National Assembly, as it may take several years to decide. The Novela proposes that, following the completion of the procedural conditions for the submission of a constitutional assessment request by a third of Members, the termination of a Member's term of office alone cannot affect the existence of procedural assumptions. The evaluation procedure shall continue irrespective of the termination of the mandate of any of the signatories. The solution shall be without prejudice to the Member's right to withdraw his signature during the duration of the mandate under the request. In such a case, the request could be rejected if there were no more than 30 signatures. For reasons of clarity and predictability, it is good that the law regulates such a situation. Now the question is whether the Constitutional Court will decide whether or not to make a request, depending on when the elections will be held, who will be elected, and how long the trial will run before the court. Citizens who expect a decision and whose decision it affects are always insecure whether or not the court will decide. In this context, the novelty brings a more stable and reliable regulation of the functioning of the Constitutional Court. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Constitutional Court Act, which we are amending today, governs the situation, organisation and function of one of the most important national authorities in this country. We have before us a proposal amending Article 23a of the Constitutional Court Act on the SDS proposal. This Article lays down entities entitled to apply for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of individual acts. Among other things, this Article also sets out the right of at least a third of Members and Members to initiate a procedure to assess constitutionality or legality. As a rule, it is Members and Members of the opposition. It is one of the mechanisms in the system of brakes and balances that actually has legal and not just political effects. This also implements the rule of law and the principle of the division of power. This was also stressed by the Law-Legal Service. The main purpose of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Constitutional Court is to regulate the rights of a third of Members and Members differently, and it is essential to regulate the situation in cases where a member of the National Assembly ceases the mandate of one of the signatories to this requirement. The applicant refers to the practice of the Constitutional Court, which shows that the Constitutional Court, when the number of signatories to the request falls below one third or below 30 Members, rejects the request. According to the Constitutional Court’s assessment, the eligible applicant must exist throughout the proceedings, otherwise the procedural assumptions for the continuation of this procedure have not been met. The Constitutional Court takes care of the existence of procedural assumptions throughout the proceedings, on an official basis. As a result, many requests were rejected solely because the Constitutional Court did not decide on the request until the end of the term of office of the national assembly. This means that the fate of each such requirement is in fact entirely dependent on the time spent by the Constitutional Court to decide. The proposed amendments would allow the procedures for the assessment of constitutionality and legality to be completed even if the number of signatories changes occur during the course of the procedure. It will therefore be considered that, following the proposed regulation, there are fulfilled procedural assumptions to deal with the request of this third of Members. Nevertheless, in the SAB, we ask ourselves whether the solution is well thought out and whether it has given sufficient thought to the problem that is being exposed. The Constitutional Court is extremely burdened and has another problem. The problem is not that there is such a procedural assumption, which may be entirely meaningful in the view that at some point a question is politically and socially relevant, but the problem is in the great delays that the Constitutional Court has. With such an arrangement, of course, this same Constitutional Court will be even more burdensome. But since we're all trapped in a vicious circle here, obviously we all don't have another solution together. In the situation that we have today, when the Constitutional Court decides on these requirements only two, three, four or five years later, after they have been filed, when most or perhaps all investors do not even exist anymore, the only solution is to change the law in this way. In fact, in the SAB party, we are convinced that the procedural assumptions are set for a reason and that they have a purpose, but in a particular case it is probably the political will and justification of this arrangement, which also cares about the principle of the division of power, provides checks and balances and everything else that we need in the modern democratic system, the right solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye again, colleagues and colleagues! The Constitutional Court is the highest body of the judiciary for the protection of constitutionality and legality and human rights and fundamental freedoms. As an independent and independent body, it is outside the classical division of power, since it has special powers vis-à-vis other courts. The key competences of the Constitutional Court include the assessment of the constitutionality of the laws of the legislative branch and the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the rules of the executive branch. 23.a Article 23a of the Constitutional Court Act provides for legal persons and associations who have the right to apply for a constitutional review or an assessment of the constitutionality of an act at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The main part is institutions with a permanent mandate, such as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly, the Bank of Slovenia, the Ombudsman and so on. The only qualified candidate in this set that can be modified and not as an institution, but as a natural person, is a third of the members of the National Assembly. As a rule, the Group of Members comes from opposition parliamentary groups. In this context, the substantive decision of the Constitutional Court means one of the mechanisms of the system of brakes and balances. The latter is important for the implementation of the constitutional principles of the rule of law and the division of power. Since 30 Members do not need to show legal interest as beneficiaries, they can expect their request not to be rejected, but will be fully decided by the Constitutional Court, except in exceptional situations, for example when the number of signatories falls below 30 before deciding. That is when the request is rejected. The Constitutional Court has established such a practice and every time the number of rules already tabled falls below 30, either the withdrawal of the regulation, the termination of the term of office of an individual Member, or the termination of the term of office of a national assembly, the Court shall simply terminate the decision-making and judgment procedure. The additional problem in all this is that the Constitutional Court has ruled disproportionately for many years, even for several years, and therefore is so much more likely to dismiss cases before the Constitutional Court. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, which is proposing to supplement the law, is convinced that it is a very obvious lack of regulation in force, that the current regime and the caselaw derived from it are disproportionate. They believe that it would be appropriate to upgrade the procedure. As can be seen from the proposed amendment to the current Article, it will allow consistency in the exercise of the right of Members to require the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the individual legislative act, with procedures being carried out to the end irrespective of the change in the number of signatories during the course of the proceedings and also in the event of the end of the term of office of the national assembly. The Desus Group agrees that the anomaly must be eliminated, and we unanimously support the solution proposed by the Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u84	Have a nice hello to you all again! Complementation of the Constitutional Court Act is good. We will support the law because this supplement is one of the stones to strengthen the democraticity of the current regime. A third of Members may also require a request for a substantive examination of the assessment of constitutionality or legality. The law provides procedural assumptions for the continuation of the procedure by requiring the assessment of constitutionality or legality in the event that a Member ceases his mandate. Following the current regulation in the event that the number of Members during the constitutional or legal procedure is reduced to a third due to the termination of the term of office of individual Members, for example due to the expiry of the term of office of the national assembly, the Court shall reject the constitutionality assessment requirement. The review of constitutional disputes has shown that, following the mandates of the National Assembly, there has been an increase in the proportion of these requests rejected. We do not claim, but there is a suspicion that proceedings in the Constitutional Court are being delayed for a reason. Somehow they do work: we wait a while, the term of office of the National Assembly is over, so we will not have to decide, because the Member has ceased to be a party and will not have to complete the procedure. These are concerns. The termination of a Member's term of office should not affect the existence of procedural assumptions. On the contrary, if the term of office of the entire national assembly were to expire, the court should have only the necessary or priority to decide on the requirement, as this strengthens democracy. Various changes in the direction of wrongdoing are unacceptable. The more we have a decision from the Constitutional Court, the better. It is also very welcome to draw up separate opinions from constitutional judges, since it is from the latter that it is possible to understand the thinking of a particular legal problem in view of the current situation in society. Last but not least, this is an informal legal source, which is a case law. Today's amendment to the law removes this anomaly. It must be said that most of the constitutional requirements come from opposition parliamentary groups. The decision of the Constitutional Court means one of the mechanisms of the system of brakes and balances whose operation is important for the realization of the rule of law and the principle of the division of power. It is right to allow a new procedure for a constitutional judgment, even if any of the Members or Members no longer have a parliamentary mandate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u86	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, hello again! Fellow Members and fellow Members, good afternoon! The Constitutional Court Act provides in Article 23a that a third of Members may initiate a procedure to assess the constitutionality or legality of a regulation or general act issued for the exercise of public powers. A third of the Members are therefore eligible candidates, which is a procedural assumption that the request will begin at all, since the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia cannot initiate or continue the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality on an official basis. In the case of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the position has emerged that, when the term of office of Members is terminated, so that the number of signatories falls to a third of the Members – for example, we have already heard today, an example of the individual termination of the mandate or, at the end of the term of office of the national assembly – the requirement is no longer addressed and rejected, as the conditions for the procedural assumption of the request are no longer met. As a result of this view, a number of requests submitted by at least a third of the members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia were rejected only because the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia did not decide until the end of the term of office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, as the decision lasted for several years. The purpose of the proposal for a law supplementing the Constitutional Court Act is therefore to provide procedural assumptions for the continuation of the procedure by requiring the assessment of constitutionality and legality in the event that a Member ceases his mandate. This would not affect the Member's right to withdraw his signature for a request in the framework of his decision during the exercise of his mandate, and he cannot do so after the end of his term of office, because of course he is no longer a Member. Following the proposal of these amendments to the amended amendment in question, the procedure for the request for an assessment of constitutionality and legality shall continue irrespective of the termination of the mandate of any Member. If the term of office of first-signed Member ceases, the following signed Member shall be considered as the first-signed Member. Only if of at least a third of the Members ceases the mandate of all the signatories may the assessment request be rejected. Until then, procedural assumptions are considered to be met to address the requirement for an assessment of constitutionality and legality. Both the Legislative and Legal Service and the Ministry of Justice and the Council of State have pointed out in their opinions that the proposal of the Constitutional Court Act complements the regulation of procedural assumptions which are necessary in the constitutional dispute for the substantive examination of the requirement for an abstract assessment of a provision submitted by a third of Members and that the current provision of the Constitutional Court Act does not provide adequate legal certainty as to the assessment of the fulfilment of the conditions for the submission of a request, since this question depends on the time of the decision on the case. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, of course, unanimously support the proposal for a law supplementing the Constitutional Court Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, 5 March 2020, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on military duty within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, the group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Jean Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! When the Republic of Slovenia decided to proceed on the basis of the outcome of the referendum to the strongest military alliance in the history of humanity, this is in NATO, it has adapted its army in a way of abandoning recruitment and introducing a professional army. At that time, based on analyses, also on needs according to, say, a geostrategic role of the Republic of Slovenia, it was considered appropriate for Slovenia to have 8,000 permanent members, 2,000 contractual reserve members and that it will always have 15,000 voluntary reserve members. Later, the document of the Doctrine Military Strategic Reserve was adopted, during the second Janša government, where it came, unfortunately only on paper, until the introduction of the strategic reserve, which was supposed to number up to 25,000 boys and girls. Where are we today? Of these 25 thousand, we have exactly — nothing. Of the 2,000 contractual reserves we have about 800, and of the 8 thousand permanent members we are today at about 6 thousand 300. The largest number we reached was about 7,000 600. It only took ten years for us to have practically one brigade of fewer members and members of the Slovenian Army than we should have. Given that the trend continues to decline, given that we do not have sufficient numbers of members and members of the non-permanent composition and contractual reserve and voluntary reserve, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is necessary to reintroduce compulsory military service or so-called recruitment for at least a medium term. This recruitment would take six months and we suggest that the matter be introduced in a way that re-enacts the Military Duty Act. At that time, certain articles that have been added to this law have frozen the implementation of the recruitment process and have also made it clear in the law that at any time it can be reactivated. Currently we have four military barracks in Slovenia that are suitable for citizens and citizens to serve military service, in Bohinjska Bela, in Vipava, Postojna and New Town. The current capacity, as far as Bohinjska Bela is concerned, is about 140 members, in Vipava as well as 140 members, in Postojna about 280 members and in Novi Grad 130 members. So, right now, we have a capacity of 600 subscribers, and with the possibility of further investment, we could get to the number of one thousand 280. As far as the cost is concerned. I don't know where I found this to be worth 300 million euros. I think he's selling this to one of the opposition parties. Total costs, and these are the documents of the Ministry of Defence: costs of logistics provision of 10 million 300, costs in the personnel area of 23 million 200, total costing 33 million euros to re-initiate recruitment. If we reintroduce recruitment, we get a lot of people who could also serve in the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army. Six months for military service and 12 months for civilian service. Why twice as many? Those who serve in civilian service know that they would serve eight hours a day, and those who would serve in military service are days and weeks in military barracks and do not go home like those who serve in civilian service. We make a mandatory proposal for boys. They can go out there and serve girls on their own. According to the study process, this should be done once by the age of 30. I invite you to support this law. This law, or the reintroduction of military duty, is also included in the coalition contract. However, this is a matter that has been set up – although this law has been tabled before the government of Marjan Šarca has resigned – so that things can be corrected, that things can be reconciled and then we come up with an improved proposal, improved in terms of the opinion of the other coalition partners, and I believe that there is also a need to seek agreement in the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much. For the opening presentation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mag. Natasha Dolenc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u90	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! In opening, let me stress that this is the opinion of the current government and that it will primarily be at the new government and coalition to assess whether the solutions in the proposed law are organisational, financial and time-consuming and what their consequences will be. The fact is that tensions in the international environment have recently been increasing and new forms of security threats are emerging, as the proponents have pointed out. It is true that the current system of staffing of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is based on a professional army, complemented by a contractual reserve and voluntary service of military service, currently shows certain weaknesses in providing the necessary personnel to carry out the statutory tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces and should also be upgraded according to the Government's assessment. Nevertheless, we estimate that there are no reasons at present to reintroduce individual or all elements of military duty and that this will not solve the personnel problems of the Slovenian Army or contribute significantly to the country's higher defence readiness. The Government that carries out ongoing operations as fully legitimate accepts proposals that, when all elements of military duty are reintroduced in peace, they should be based on a detailed analysis of the current state of affairs and also on a detailed analysis of the consequences of the proposed solutions. All of this, however, does not contain the proposed law, but is based on a flat-rate assessment that only the reintroduction of all elements of military duty in peace can prevent negative trends in the defence capacity of the country, which is not necessarily true. The reinforcement of the army is a dynamic category in every country, including Slovenia, which varies depending on the needs, possibilities and ambitions of the country or its policies. From the point of view of the military organisation, changing the way in which it is completed makes sense when it makes it easier or enables it to fulfil its mission and tasks, or when such an improvement cannot be achieved by other simpler, cheaper and less risky measures. Changing the way the army is complemented by its multifaceted social process with a lot of risks, not only because it has important consequences for the economy, education, education, but also for everyday life, family and the like. Changing the way in which it is completed requires a comprehensive, accurate and coordinated planning and operation of all national and social actors. Change always requires a sufficient time frame. However, changes in the way the army is complemented make sense to act cautiously, in time and not in unexpected circumstances. In addition to gradually increasing the defence budget, the Government's mandate, which closes its work, has focused in particular on improving the legal position of professional members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, establishing better solutions to the system of acquisition and retention of personnel in the Slovenian Army, increasing the possibility of voluntary service of military service and contractually carrying out military service in the contractual reserve, including its transformation, scholarship policy and other motivational measures. These are also the key points of the White Paper prepared by the Ministry of Defence. These measures, if they give the desired effect, will allow Slovenia to strengthen the country's ability to defend itself against military threats without the possibility of re-imposing compulsory military service when it is addressed to Euro-Atlantic links. Only if those measures did not produce the desired results would, as foreseen in the White Paper, consider possible changes to the current Slovenian Army staffing system. The combined system of the professional and bonded armies could be one of the options or solutions to the problem, which, of course, would require a broader political and social consensus. The fact is that the possible reintroduction of all elements of military duty, as provided for in the bill, would have an important impact on the implementation of our commitments to build capacity within the EU and NATO, as a significant part of the human resources and financial capacity should be redirected to the implementation of military service. If, at this point, I do not specifically point out the organisational and human resources aspect with which the Slovenian Armed Forces would face the re-introduction of the service and which is detailed in the Government's opinion, then let me draw attention to the financial aspect of the proposed solutions here. The proposed law did not realistically assess the financial implications that the reintroduction of all elements of military duty in peace for the state budget would have. We estimate that, given the number of recruits of around 90,000 in the years between 17 and 27, these would amount to €200 million for the construction of four modern learning centres, €40 million would be needed for the modernisation of the four existing military barracks and €39 million for the purchase of the minimum necessary weapons equipment. The joint initial contribution would therefore be significantly higher than those cited by the applicant to reintroduce compulsory military service. However, this does not take into account the costs necessary to reintroduce the duty of reserve service, i.e. the costs necessary to carry out military exercises and other forms of military training of the reserve.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u91	Madam Secretary, your time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u92	In short, the current government does not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u93	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, only Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the legislative process, the proposed amendment to the Law on Military Duty has sparked quite a debate in the public on what our young boys need to become real men. Opinions are broken mainly on the basis of a laziness assessment. Many debates are related to the memories of military activity in the former country, much more positive opinions than negative, more anecdotes. However, just at the beginning of today's debate it is necessary to say that the introduction of recruitment in the form of serving a six-month military term is much more than the resurgence of memories of those times. Following the abandonment of the recruitment system in 2003 and the years of the construction of the professional defence system, we ask the Social Democrats - and we think that it is justified - whether the concept of recruitment with political coercion can even be revived, especially in the fact that the people have the feeling that they will be defended by someone else. Let's look back 20 years. The billing system was shut down nine months earlier than anticipated. Dr. Grizold, then Minister of Defence, said that maintenance of the recruitment system by marriage was reckless. This was also confirmed by the numbers. Let's see. The largest number of callers was in 1994, about 12,000. The last full call was made in 2001 with about 5,000 engravings. The number of recruits fell from year to year. If, as of January 2003, 861 subscribers had been sent to serve on the military deadline, the number of April of the same year had been halved. Medical, other examinations and psychological examinations of recruiters have also been discontinued this year. Following the abandonment of recruitment in December 2010, compulsory service in the Slovenian Army reserve was also discontinued. Unlike the proposers of this amendment of the law, we believe that this is a serious issue that we should first, for the first time, conduct an in-depth debate, secondly, assess whether the defence system is capable of carrying out quality recruitment education, thirdly, ensure the appropriate accommodation and equipment that the recruits would need for training and weapons management, fourthly, to provide resources, and most importantly, as the fifth point we point out, to achieve social consensus. The billboard system, which will not produce an appropriate result, is certainly not the right way or rational. For we believe that the financial assessment of the proposed amendment to the Military Duty Act is presented in a lower way than would be necessary to enforce the law. We also heard this a little earlier from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence. What, though, will we do if young people first decide to enforce their conscientious objection to military duty? Then we'll label them as non-lethal and all that? Social Democrats note that the process of abolishing recruitment has been under way for years, so we do not understand the claim and intention of the motioners of this novel so that the first deployments to serve the military term could begin on September 1st of this year. Social Democrats are aware of the importance of the defence base, but it is unacceptable that young people will once again become highly moral and ethical citizens with the introduction of compulsory military service. Military training is not intended for the upbringing of young people. For this there are educational institutions whose primary task is to raise young people. And remember, child rearing is also the primary task of the family. Finally, let me remind you of the White Paper on the Defence of the Republic of Slovenia 2020, which sets out measures to strengthen the personnel gap in the Slovenian Army. In addition to the need to renovate the system of acquisition of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, it will also be necessary to improve the legal status and financial remuneration. And if we do not achieve the expected results with these measures, other ways of staffing the Slovenian Armed Forces will also need to be explored, including the possible introduction of all elements of the military obligation. We believe that there is a need for consensus between a wider society, expertise and politics in such important changes. Last but not least, it is necessary to stop the constant change in the concepts of the Slovenian Army. Social Democrats believe that the proposal for a new Law on Military Duty is not suitable for further consideration, so we will vote against the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u96	Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The proposed amendment to the Military Duty Act proposed by the SDS is not acceptable and will not be supported at this stage. We must be aware that relaunching recruitment is a complex social process and has significant consequences not only for military organisation but also for the economy, education, not least for everyday life and family. We therefore believe that a broader political and social consensus will certainly be needed to introduce recruitment. The proposal to reintroduce recruitment, as was done during the transition to professional completion of the Slovenian Armed Forces, should be based on a detailed analysis or study of the current situation and also on a detailed analysis of the consequences of the introduction of recruitment, including an accurate calculation of the financial implications of the project. Unfortunately, such an analysis has not yet been prepared. We agree that changing the way the army is complemented requires the precise and coordinated planning and functioning of all state and social actors. However, this challenge needs to be addressed with caution, in due time and in non-exhaustible circumstances, and with a reasonably long test and transitional period. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we are detained in connection with the emergency by re-establishing compulsory military service. The SDS proposes that the recruitment be initiated by 1. 9. 2020, which, in our view, is unrealistic and unrealistic, as we currently do not have the conditions. We believe that at least basic human resources, material, infrastructure, logistics, financial and other resources should be provided for the project of this magnitude. In addition, the scope and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces are determined by the highest development guidance documents in the field of defence, such as the White Paper on the Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, the Medium-term Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2016-2020, the Resolution on the General Long-term Programme for the Development and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025. None of these documents, however, contains the idea of reintroducing the recruitment system, so we would point out that any intervention into the existing structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces would also require a change of all the defence documents on board and other documents. In order to implement recruitment, it would also be necessary to provide more than ten or some hundreds of millions of euros for human resources, logistics, infrastructure and other purposes. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we believe that the resources from the defence budget would be more meaningful to give primary priority to modernising military equipment and improving the status of soldiers. This would improve the position of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, making the profession of soldiers significantly more interesting and competitive in the labour market. However, our objective should be to ensure an adequate range of well-motivated and trained personnel in the Slovenian Army, which would be achieved by appropriate measures and additional benefits for our soldiers, such as an accessibility allowance, a favourable rental of housing, a financial compensation for out-of-time tasks, a reduction in the required level of education, an offer of additional education, greater care for soldiers after 45 years of age, and so on. However, if we fail to complete the permanent and spare composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the new government in particular, and these measures will not give us the desired results, the idea of reintroducing the recruitment system will also be taken into account. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, in this regard, we are primarily committed to consolidating the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces and to increasing the strategic reserve. Otherwise, we are more inclined to stimulate young people to introduce some form of voluntary recruitment, rather than the strict compulsory service of military service, for a period of three months and not six months. For these reasons, we will not support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Military Duty in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Gradually, Jean-Mahnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you, Vice President. I would just like to draw attention to the continuation of the debate, as it has now been said in two positions: only the law enters into force with September 1st, there is no recruitment with September 1st. It is said that only the law comes into force after this proposal, and then the Minister of Defence himself and the government decide how and what. So much so that the debate will be more proper and that we know what is on the table. So the law goes into effect, not the recruitment in September.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, chairman. In Levika, we strongly oppose any attempt to force human suffering into repressive state apparatus. These are institutions to protect the social order of a handful of capitalists and their lenders, who are rich at the expense of workers and workers. The proposal at the table does exactly that – the forced service of the military service is reintroduced. Forced because the people in this army do not want to stay even against the payment and are mass abandonment. From December to January last year alone, 73 people left her, or almost one group. People don't want to join this army. This was very clear at the time when compulsory military service was still in force. From 1993 to 2002, the number of persons serving military service decreased by 41%, with almost the same population. Civil service decisions have increased sevenfold. All of this is well - known by the law’s proponents and should therefore take twice as long as military service, of course, to turn people away from it. They write this very clearly in the bill, and they don't hide it. I quote, “the practice of implementing the law by 2003 has shown that the time-consuming equal length of alternative military service is primarily a means of avoiding”, the end of the quote. Last but not least, what an interest it is to serve in the service of the military is the number of persons who choose to serve on a voluntary basis. In 2018, only 70 people completed this voluntary service. That's the number of people who really want to join the army. And because people do not want to join this and such an army voluntarily, they want to be forced into the military by the proponents and supporters of today’s marriage. This force is frankly excused by two arguments: firstly, that the defence capabilities of the state must be raised because we are supposedly somehow magically under military threat, and secondly, that the Slovenian Army is fully humane. Both arguments are flawed and misconceived by the real reason, the real motivation behind this law – young people want to join the army to wash their brains with nationalistic ideology and turn them into obedient followers of authority or at least try to do so. But let's go from the top. As far as military threat is concerned, the first argument is why this law should be adopted. Slovenia is not militarily threatened – pika! This is a fact, and with this fact, although through teeth, the entire political establishment in this country agrees. In a very unlikely case that Slovenia is the target of a military attack, this would be due to its role in the NATO Pact. In this case, however, an attack would take place from afar and only on infrastructure that ensures the mobility of NATO's troops, which, by the way, shows how the NATO Pact does not guarantee peace for us, but a risk factor. The reintroduction of forced military service due to the alleged increased military threat to Slovenia is therefore very clearly attracted to hair. We're surrounded by friendly countries themselves. With most of these countries, Slovenia has a solved border issue with more than half a year old international treaties. The only one of these countries with some desire to revise these treaties is Hungary. Hungary, under the leadership of the Fascist Orban regime, the regime by which — absurdly, however — is most favoured by the party who wants to impose compulsory military service on today’s law and who also receives money from this same fascist regime for its operation. The only country with which Slovenia does not have a solved border issue is Croatia. But Croatia, unlike all of our neighbours in the past, has never shown appetite in Slovenian territory and has never tried to subjugate the inhabitants and inhabitants of Slovenia. The only things we had were incidents at the border, and even in these incidents at the border, we could see how they were staged by a party behind today's proposal for forced service in cooperation with the HDZ Brotherhood in Croatia. So once again, Slovenia is not militarily threatened. The imposition of compulsory military service by this argument does not go through, no more. The second argument is intended to substantiate the first, namely, the second argument for recruitment is the military's understaffing in relation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's human resources plans. Well, that's the argument he's got on the first ball. As soon as we know that these plans are not prepared on the basis of the defence needs of Slovenia as such, they are based on the promises of the NATO Pact. Again, these are not promises made by Slovenia or by the inhabitants and residents of this country. These are some of the promises made by the political representatives and guardians of the interests of the ruling class in that country, without any consultation or public debate of the Pact bureaucrats. Citizens and residents should eat this will and pay for purchases of weapons and other war techniques, the sole purpose of which is to forge the profits of imperialist military complexes and equip the Slovenian Army to participate in the occupations of the countries of the world periphery. On this subject, when we are talking about the reactivation of compulsory military service, we must be aware that the Slovenian Army is not an army for the defence of the state, it is not intended to defend the state. It is intended to maintain a faction of bureaucracy and employees, of whom they have managerial staff, as well as some other staff, considerable material and other privileges, and the ruling class is trying to ensure a higher level of social peace through this. This army is intended to maintain an unfair social order, either in the context of NATO's occupation operations abroad or in the context of its military operations, such as by residing in Latvia or, for example, by supporting the police in intercepting unarmed refugees at the border and returning them to hell in the global south, created by the NATO Pact or imperialists, who are leading this pact in accordance with their particular interests. Now someone will jump: “For the Slovenian Army is also carrying out the tasks of protection and rescue.” Indeed, the Slovenian Army also carries out protection and rescue tasks and certain social benefits. But these tasks are in the minority, not the core of the existence and functioning of the Slovenian Army as we have it today. As is the case with imaginary military threats, there is no need to impose compulsory military service in order to meet certain administrative objectives. Due to the very nature of the Slovenian Army and the way in which the ruling policy uses it to serve the Pact, and the inhumane persecution and rejection of refugees at the southern border, the imposition of forced military service is at stake. Here are some other arguments, arguments that in a different world, at a different time may partly justify forcing people into the military. These are arguments for the upbringing of Slovenian youth. The most disdainful of them was defended by a marginal right-hander on commercial television a month ago, when he named Slovenian youth as, quote, “moaning” and, for, quote, “I kiss and there” and the army as “educational institution”. It is a narrative that completely ignores social reality and young people as insurmountable and fearsome mollusks, never really well socialised, and the army is made into a kindergarten. These arguments, absurd, are drawn to the hair, as they are, and in fact most revealing the true purpose of imposing compulsory military service — brainwashing. This is the socialisation function of creating the identity and acceptance of the culture of society through nationalist ideology, which the ruling class calls patriotism. The military as a repressive apparatus of the state does not only work with repression, it also works with ideology. It works at the same time with ideology to ensure its own cohesion and reproduction on the inside, as well as to promote certain value systems on the outside. And these are the objectives of rituals, such as the morning greeting of the flag, the cry “For Slovenia!”, the ranks of the national celebrations and so on. And if the outside public no longer accepts these values, then this public must be put into the army and, with this patriotic disposition, wash her brain in the barracks. With the patriotism that the English letter Samuel Johnson described as the last refuge of the underlings. Just such proposals as this on the forced introduction of a military deadline testify to how low these low-rises are willing to let go. Let us not forget that the reintroduction of forced military service today or in the near future is proposed and supported by those political forces that have resold the former social property to foreign capital richly, those that have sold the country's sovereignty in the bohemian decade to the NATO Pact and the Brussels Eurobircracy for the sake of their own prestige. These are the ones we find again and again in the front lines against the rise of minimum wages, the rise of social assistance, the rise of pensions and so on, all on behalf of the competitiveness of the labour force, the pressure of the population to poverty. Well, now that they've destroyed this country's economic base, they want to force human suffering into the military, and they've been brainwashing them with love for their country, where, again, these same actors have systematically destroyed them for three decades. For the record, it's not just the proponents of this law and the rest of the right hand that's sticking with them in the same horn. Until recently, the White Book on Defence, which they have recently issued, is also intended to do so, only until 2025 or perhaps by 2030. The Minister of Defence of Desus, State Secretary of LMŠ and SD, was on guard over the preparation of this White Paper, which opens the door to recruitment. These people also defended the White Paper on the Parliamentary Defence Committee when it was addressed. All these guardians and representatives of the interests of foreign capital and the NATO Pact, from self-proclaimed social democracy to the far right, obviously intend to make people suffer in the military sooner or later, in order to satisfy a human resources plan that they have prepared themselves in line with the promises they have made to their masters in Berlin and Washington. In Levi, we will oppose any attempt to impose forced military service on NATO’s army — today and in the future. If this law is adopted in the National Assembly, we will ensure that citizens and citizens decide on it directly at the legislative referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Constitution states that the power of the people or demos, with the Greek word, and this same demos, the same people decided at the referendum on 23 March 2003 that the Republic of Slovenia would become a member of NATO. As many as 974 thousand 988 voters then cast their vote, their voice and the result for Slovenia's entry into the union, then 66%, good 66%, which means that two-thirds of the people decided to join Slovenia in NATO. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are democrats and respect people's will. And yes, before you is also a participant in the war for Slovenia, which is written in the military booklet for 17 days. But that does not mean that militarism is my life philosophy and my first option – not at all. But the fact is that citizens need security for a quality life. Security is not on its own and security is therefore one of the central tasks of the State. This is the function of the State – ensuring security. Not the establishment and management of businesses and so on. The defence system is one of the key to ensuring this security. In Slovenia, the defence system consists of two important subsystems, the defence and the defence and rescue subsystem. The management of the defence system is responsible and difficult, it does not allow improvisation and half solutions. Therefore, in New Slovenia, we are very sad that the defence system has been in crisis for several years. For several years now, the defence system has been facing a crisis. The President of the Republic of Slovenia also informs us of this every year. In particular, this crisis is known in the Slovenian Army, which is a carrier of defence security. Since the financial crisis, the Slovenian Army has virtually not recovered and is in a state that clearly leads to the collapse of the organisation. Let me remind you here of a statement made a while ago, which I am sure all Slovenian politicians already know, this is a statement by former Chief General Major General Alan Geder, my cousin, who said a while ago that in the event of such a decline in the number of permanent compositions of the Slovenian Armed Forces in 2021 – this is next year – the Slovenian Army will not be or will be inoperable. Well, if she's inoperable, she's the same as she isn't, it's just a cost. It is therefore necessary to find appropriate measures in order to complete the Slovenian Army of Human Resources. One of the reasons, or one of the measures, is certainly re-enlisting — one of them. We've been working on this for a while and we've recognized it as a possible measure. Now, perhaps if we look at a little timeline, this law has been introduced, I think, around 20 January, 27 January, the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, resigned, yesterday we received a new Prime Minister of the Government and signed a coalition treaty that says the following in the field of defence and security, very high on the scale is the priority recorded: consolidation of the professional composition of the Slovenian Army, as well as the gradual introduction of the recruitment system and the six-month military deadline. Gradually. This is enshrined in the Coalition Treaty and we, as signatories to this coalition treaty, will, of course, do what is written here in the Coalition Treaty – because the Treaty is not just a legal agreement, the Treaty – we have respected, within the coalition, sought the best possible solutions. The situation in the Slovenian Army, as it is said, is catastrophic in the human resources field. We are talking about the critical human resources malnutrition of the Slovenian Army. The strategic documents, if I may recall, suggest that the Slovenian Army should have 7 000 600 members of the regular composition. Let's see what the data is today, right now. February 2020, permanent composition: total 6 000 359. If I put this in the ratio of 7 000 600, as the strategic documents say, we are only 83%. However, the structure itself is very important. I'll give you a quick quote. We have a thousand, 55 or 16.6% of the officers in the permanent composition, there are more than a thousand, 934, that is 30.4%, and the soldiers are only 2 thousand, 357 or 37%. Then there are even higher military personnel, 251 and 4%, lower military personnel, 331 or 5.2%, and civilians, 431 or 6.7%. In addition, the sex structure, male 5 000 311 or good 83% or 83.5% and female thousands 48 or 16.5%. So much for numbers. As far as our support is concerned, because tomorrow we will vote not on the law, but on whether the law is suitable for further consideration, our votes of support will not be exactly for the above reasons – the coalition, the coalition commitments and so on. But I believe that, and I can say that, after many years, this coalition will take this human resources issue seriously. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u104	Dear Vice President! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Military Duty is insufficiently drawn up at several points. The proposed change significantly affects the position of an individual and is therefore a necessary in-depth assessment of both the current circumstances and the future, which would require the reintroduction of a mandatory military deadline. The individual or, better said, every citizen must be adequately protected and ensured that State intervention in the freedom of action of an individual is not too profound and has no worse consequences for him. In doing so, it is therefore impossible to adequately define the proposed amendment of the law, which cheaply defines the objectives and principles, the main solutions, the assessment of the financial implications that are practically non-existent and, lastly, the presentation of the regulation in other legal systems, which is clearly carried out and presented selectively and misleadingly. How important the freedom of an individual and his will in a modern democratic society is to everyone who has been elected or appointed under the mandate of this national assembly. It is the individual in constitutional democracy who needs to be protected from a large majority. The compulsory service of military service interferes not only with the individual’s conscience but also in his free choice of spending time in his privacy, which is a constitutionally protected category. Therefore, the issue of compulsory military service in the SAB Group is not only a question of 90 Members, but of all citizens and citizens. It is important to respect the will of people, for they are those who are supposed to serve and postpone or even give up their careers and other activities that provide them with survival. Members proposing amending the law cited the lack of personnel in the military and the changed security situation in the region and the world as the central objective of amending the law. The fact is that the figures on the number of soldiers in the Slovenian Army are not encouraging. Even vice versa, the data is worrying and the adoption of measures to increase the number of soldiers is necessary. There is also no doubt that it is necessary to treat women and men equally when it comes to serving military or civil service. At the same time, we are aware of the need to increase the technical and physical capabilities of the Slovenian Armed Forces in addition to human beings, as this is required of us by technology, the world situation and, last but not least, the obligations of international organisations themselves. It is clear that financial problems are sustainable and, above all, more risky to have a paid voluntary reserve than a mandatory reserve, but the SAB Group cannot support changes to the law on the basis of the proposed proposal, mainly for the following three reasons. One. An assessment of the financial implications of the proposal is given: an increase in expenditure of 10% of the existing defence budget per year over the next three years. This would mean that an additional €43 million should be provided each year. Nowhere in the proposal is it indicated where those funds would be obtained, what this means for other items in the budget, what is the cost of giving possible cancellations of voluntary paid reserves, and what are the possible legal costs of searching for the rights of the said and the like. It is also not specified whether the management, education and supply of Slovenian Armed Forces personnel and 070203 The infrastructure and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the 2020 budget is actually sufficient for a potential new number of soldiers. In the SAB Group, we would like to understand the basis for the calculation of the required additional resources, the calculation methodology and now the defined ones. Is it possible that the Slovenian Army's existing infrastructure, which is not currently in use, could be reused, sufficient? The bill does not specify the number of potential individuals who should serve a military term if the law were adopted and entered into force in September 2020, which would make it easier to understand the assessments given. In particular, the proposal does not determine whether or not it will be necessary to build new facilities, whether the existing Slovenian Armed Forces fleet is sufficient to serve a military term, or whether the current Slovenian Armed Forces staffing structure is sufficient to train potential new soldiers, and if not, why not and how much reinforcement is needed. And on which functions, as the latter depends on the amount of the salary, the increase in salary, which is also provided under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The other one. A display of regulation in other countries. True countries such as Austria, Switzerland, Denmark and Finland know or have recently accepted compulsory service and introduced compulsory military service, but on the other hand there are a number of countries which do not provide for it in their law. These are: Belgium, compulsory military deadline abandoned in 1994, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, compulsory service abandoned 2008, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Montenegro, Poland, Serbia, Slovakia and could still be listed. Third. Security situation in the region and the world. In view of all that is stated in the SAB Group, we believe that the implementation of the initiative to reintroduce military service in the current situation would not solve the problems of the Slovenian Armed Forces, but would rather present additional challenges in the functioning and development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, so we will vote against the SAB Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u106	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the secretary of state, and also to all colleagues and others who are in the hall! Slovenia is still a safe country. With a calm conscience, Slovenia is now one of the few countries in the world in which we maintain security as a fundamental human right at a high level. However, the country is as strong and secure as its citizens and every time it is responsible for the adoption and resolution of key measures for its normal functioning and the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Ensuring national security is thus based on the functioning of three important systems: the defence system, the internal security system and the protection system against natural and other disasters. Since we have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Military Duty, I will focus on the Slovenian Army. The Slovenian army has a permanent, peaceful and war composition. The permanent composition consists of professional members of the Slovenian Army, a peace-keeping composition in addition to professional members consists of members of the voluntary service of the military and members of the contractual reserve. The military composition, however, consists of members of a permanent peace-keeping and reserve structure. The draft law on amendments and additions to the Military Duty Act seeks to reintroduce military service, namely that the military obligation would last for six months and the civil service of the military period for 12 months, meaning that the provisions adopted in 2002 would be deleted and amended with regard to the suspension of the implementation of certain elements of military duty in peace and their reintroduction. If we look into the past. The history of recruitment is well known in Slovenia. However, since 1995, we have witnessed the rash of recruits, the changed demographic trends, and, last but not least, the reformation on the approximation of NATO. It is therefore not surprising that a number of studies and discussions were carried out in 2000 and 2001, and last but not least a proposal for amendments to the Slovenian Army's replenishment system. In 2002, the then government decided to implement the transition to a professional army with a voluntary reserve by 2010 and to leave the implementation of individual elements of the military deadline in peace. This phased out all necessary professional and health checks on suitability, then referrals and enrollment and end 2010 mandatory service in the reserve. The applicants then found reasons for such a solution in the requirements for greater professional professionalization of the military, a reduced number of military compulsory service obligations and a great interest in performing a civilian replacement service by enforcing conscientious objection, as the number of applications increased by almost 100 %. An important factor during that period was certainly also a stable international security situation and a negative natural increase, resulting in a lack of personnel for the compulsory military completion of the Slovenian Army. The security situation on the international floor has changed significantly in recent years. New forms of security threats have emerged, and regardless of our country's current security, we must be prepared for them. The annual assessments of the readiness of the Slovenian Army, despite the knowledge of the expertise and reputation of our members on international missions and at home, and their great contribution in key moments such as natural and other disasters, are not the best. Why do we face the situation of the Slovenian Army as we have it? Is this due to lack of adequate personnel, poor investment in the Slovenian Army? Surely the answer is not uniform. The regulation of the professional structure of the military is of paramount importance, as we must not neglect data on the number of permanent and contractual compositions of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which in February 2020 amounted to only 7 000 28 members, which is less than the expected number. In Desus we highlighted the idea of reintroducing the service of a three-month military term in 2017. We also wrote the 2018 pageant into our programme because we thought that young people would gain the necessary knowledge to help them with natural and other accidents and other knowledge that would help them in their lives. At the same time, the Slovenian Army would again approach people of the type of recruits, and they could also obtain an appropriate quality cadre. In the Desus Group we will confirm the proposal at first reading. However, given the importance of this topic, it would be appropriate to hold a broader debate in the framework of the legislative process in the form of a public presentation of opinions with the aim of obtaining as much information and views as possible, both in terms of financial implications, time components and indeed justified reasons for the appropriateness of investing in the arrangements, and then to put the conclusions into the legislative text accordingly in the following cases. Certainly, when making such important historical decisions as the re-introduction of the recruitment system, we must not forget the status of the current professional members of the Slovenian Army and their future. The structure of our army needs to be properly and professionally regulated so that future potential recruits will, if possible, recognize the honor of defending the independence, independence, freedom and territorial integrity of our country of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u108	Have a good day again, all of you! We hear and read that abolishing a mandatory military deadline is a civilizational achievement. Really? What's that? Civilisation will be achieved when the Slovenian nation is no more, but it will be a civilizational achievement for the Muslim brotherhood, not for the Slovenians. Erdogan has reopened borders, which means there will soon be a new migratory wave at our borders. I want to know who will defend the country in case of major security risks. The answer is quite clear — no one. Or people will have to help themselves. The key question is, who is Slovenia even a country, how many Slovenians live in Slovenia? Nobody has that information today. Does the military have data on how many people Slovenia could activate in the event of security threats? How many men are capable of fighting? Women are increasingly appalled by the fact that men are increasingly soft, uninventive, sensitive, not suitable for both husband and master and father. If you have to join the army, it's best you leave as soon as possible. I don't understand why we should delay the service of the military. You talk about your doctorate after college – no, we should all serve our military service after high school and high school. Tell me how you FDV graduates, other than the defense attorneys, will be sent to serve a military service. In college, they're getting more and more involved in hate speech, and for them, every order in the military will be a hostile speech. In college, the men and women's bathrooms are shut down, and in military rooms, the bathrooms are still separate. And these FDV students won't even know which bathrooms they can go to — will they be in their pants? I don't know. Let's not forget that we don't just need compulsory military service, we also need professional soldiers. If young people experience this profession even before higher education, they are more likely to be employed in the military. After college, financial appetites grow to young people, and it is less likely that they will be employed as soldiers with a minimum wage. Slovenian students are relatively young people, and sometimes you need a life experience for a quality study, so they could also benefit from a year’s break between high school and college. We would improve our fitness, get acquainted with basic security and living issues, gain independence from their parents, become mature individuals, become accustomed to order and discipline. Serving a military service would also be a time when young people would be able to cultivate a love for their homeland. The first problem of the Slovenian Army is the staffing structure, which represents 47% of military personnel from officers and officers and only 37% from soldiers. These two stakes should be reversed. With us, the soldiers have more rank than the U.S. generals or officers, and most of our officers are still not close to seeing the war. Even when we could see a military operation, our president or defense minister called them home. It's like taking a computer away from a computer. It's like taking a toy from a child. Given the number of officers and subordinates, there is no need for additional financial resources in the event of compulsory introduction of a military deadline. We have enough personnel, the question is whether these officers have eight hours of effective work a day — aye, seven and a half, because they have paid 30 minutes of lunch break. If the military needs additional money, there will always be a vote in the Slovenian National Party to raise the budget for the Slovenian Army. With all the problems of the Slovenian Army, we are still fortunate that the new government consists of a diplomat of general human defence and social self-protection. The proponents stated in the explanatory memorandum that the articles with which the fines for different offences were fixed were amended only because of the currency. I'd like to draw all those articles with which the fines are prescribed. Do you know why? If you ask me, we don't need fines, there has to be order in the army in a different way. The Slovenian army must be respected. First mistake or violation — warning, second offense — expulsion from the country. Anyone who violates a military obligation should not be employed in the public sector, nor should he be entitled to any social transfers. Then we'd see what kind of order it would be. For us who were in the army, it was sort of a mature test. That was when you became a man from a boy. Each of us has such or different experience in the army. Not everything was ideal, but in general not everything was beded with flowers. One thing is certain: the army would not harm anyone, nor would it benefit anyone. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kepa will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the secretary, colleagues and colleagues! With the proposed amendments to the Military Duty Act, we want to re-establish compulsory military service and re-complete the military with the recruitment system. The proposal is a six-month service of military service or 12-month service in civilian structures due to conscientious objection. In 2001, the most important developmental and doctrinal documents were adopted, which regulated the further development of the defence system and, in particular, the further transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The documents were prepared in the light of changes in the security environment and fundamental activities in the implementation of the strategic objectives of the Republic of Slovenia for integration into the European Union and NATO. On the basis of the basic guidelines set out in those documents, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia assessed the situation as well as the possibilities for amending or supplementing the system of the Slovenian Armed Forces. It has taken into account trends in comparable countries where, in particular due to the changed security situation, they have already implemented or have taken appropriate decisions to abandon the military recruitment system and have moved into the professional army. On this basis, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall hold its regular session 25. 4. 2002 took the appropriate decisions to suspend the implementation of individual elements of the military deadline during the period until 2010. In this way, the pool is expected to stop running until 31st time. 12. 2003. The deployment and service of military service is expected to be carried out up to 30 years. 6. 2004 However, the compulsory service in the reserve is expected to be discontinued 31. 12. 2010 Amendments to the Defence Act then regulated the status of the voluntary reserve. The basic objective of the 2002 amendment was to establish a modern, rational and effective military organisation that would be comparable to military organisations, mainly members of North Atlantic integration. At that time, about 26 thousand were counted for war, and about 18 thousand were included in NATO. The plan was to provide 19 000 candidates for voluntary service in reserve by 2010. Where are we today? The sharp decline in the number of professional members of the Slovenian Army as well as the contractual members of its reserve. The actual number of soldiers is decreasing from year to year and already fell below 7,000 in 2016. The structure of the permanent composition of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces has not reached the human resources plans approved by the Government and the National Assembly since 2012. According to the strategic documents, at least 7 000 600 members should have a permanent composition. Today, after – as already mentioned – February 2020 is a permanent composition of 6 000 359 and a contractual reserve of 669 members. The question is rightly raised as to whether the military is capable of ensuring the safety of citizens and of carrying out its basic tasks. We certainly do not achieve what was set up when the law was amended in 2002 — the establishment of a strong professional army with a voluntary reserve. As the most common reason for such a strong decline in the regular composition and under-completement, members state too low personal income. Our client’s proposal to provide the military — as well as other structures, the police, professional firefighters, the health branch — from the public service system has not received sufficient support. The President of the State, the commander of the armed forces, has also warned for several years that the current composition and armaments of the military forces are not enough to protect our country, that they are sufficient only to operate in a peaceful state. Multi-annual cuts in defence funds, for defence structure, have brought the system into an unenviable position. The system must be raised to a higher level, thus preventing the collapse of itself. We cannot help but overlook the fact that the security situation in the world and in Europe is getting worse and new forms of security threats are emerging. The fundamental objective of the proposed legislative changes is to comply with the long-term guidelines for the development of the defence system, and in particular the Slovenian Armed Forces, to fulfil the system of military duty and at the same time to ensure the re-implementation of individual elements of military duty in peace. We will, of course, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you very much. As the last position of the LMŠ Group, Mr Robert Pavšič will be presented. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u112	Hello again! The Slovenian army is a key part of Slovenian statehood. Or today, this army enjoys the reputation of the public and what its professional reviews are, but another question is. There is no doubt about the Marjan Šarca Group – the Slovenian Army is professional, highly qualified and internationally respected. However, the long years of financial neglect, of course, have a number of consequences today. Among other things, the fact that the profession of a soldier is being decided by fewer and fewer people. The introduction of compulsory military service would, according to the applicant's statements and estimates, have a direct financial impact of EUR 33 million, as it would be necessary to re-establish and update the barracks in Bohinjska Bela, Vipava, Postojna and New Town. 10 million should be invested in logistics and 23 million in personnel. While the applicant cites high public support for the relaunch of recruitment, the section of the proposal is more or less opposed. Dr. Maja Garb, head of the Department of Defence, says the introduction of recruitment makes no sense. Among the young people, safety cultures are lacking, and military service is no longer in their minds. Against this is also retired Rear Admiral Renato Petrič, who says that it is really about throwing sand into our eyes and dissuading the problems we have in the military – failed arms purchases, poor wages, lack of infrastructure, lack of equipment and so on. Moreover, we cannot expect young people to be raised by the state, which is a multiple argument by the advocates. This must be ensured in the first place by the family. As an extreme measure to increase the composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the compulsory service measure also provides for the White Paper, which we considered on the Defence Committee at the beginning of the previous month, but only if other measures to promote the profession prove to be ineffective. The government is opposed to the proposal. It notes that the current Military Duty Act already provides for the introduction of a recruitment system in the event of a direct military threat to the State, the proposal for activation is submitted by the Government and confirmed by the National Assembly. Notwithstanding the increase in tensions and security threats in the international environment, the Government considers that there are no sufficient reasons to reintroduce compulsory military service. After 17 years, the proposer again proposes a recruitment system, which has proven to be ineffective at the time, since he could not respond to the changed social circumstances and the modern security challenges. Contrary to the proposal that civil service lasts once more than a six-month military term, more positive approaches and not negative incentives are needed to establish a recruitment system today. Such an extensive project cannot be implemented within the time frame proposed, as it cannot be met with all infrastructure, human resources and logistical needs in such a short time. We estimate that it is reasonable to discuss the establishment of individual forms of recruitment system, but such interventions into the social system cannot be done overnight. Its reintroduction is, in our opinion, necessary for an in-depth public debate with the broad involvement of both the civil and the professional public. In addition, the length of service of the military and civil service is too rigorous and does not respond to the current social circumstances and the situation of the new generations. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc against the bill, we will be aware that more effort and resources must be invested in the security system. In this mandate, we have already ensured an increase in budgetary resources for the purpose of defence, and the Government is pursuing the objectives set out in the strategic defence documents, implementing measures to promote employment and voluntary military service. Above all, we must increase the level of confidence in the profession and provide support to all those who carry out this profession. For when we return to the profession of respect and validity, the situation of our army will also be substantially improved. A well-known musician, Greg Anderson, said that peace will be experienced when we stop dealing with problems we cannot solve. I propose that we let the professions go and focus more on the issues that we can resolve, even if the path to answers is more difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Jan Mahnic, first of all, receives the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you, Vice President. I would say once again that this law was tabled before Prime Minister Marjan Sarec resigned, and we have prepared this law ourselves in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I therefore also understand the views of potential coalition partners that they cannot support the law at this stage. However, I believe that in the next two years ahead of us, we will also enter into a coalition agreement, where we have written down that we will reintroduce recruitment. By the way, those who are already waving with the referendum – we are not worried about the referendum. A few public opinion polls have already been done, support for re-launching recruitment is more than 60%, so I believe that this referendum can be obtained if you force it. As far as what the secretary of state said. She said, "Performing an army is a dynamic category, if I wrote it down correctly." I'm dynamically imagining going up once, once down once, once down once, once down, and it's certainly not dynamic for you to just go down in the bottom. This is not a dynamic improvement. And we're going from top to bottom, from 7000 600 members and members now we're at 6000 300 and we're going to go even lower. Last but not least, you have written this in the White Paper – that you are expecting 6 000 by the end of this year, and that the White Paper does not finally allow the reintroduction of military duty unless otherwise addressed the situation. Just because you wrote this in the White Paper proves that you know that, in the course of such measures that you have taken so far, the military cannot properly and properly complete it to the number that has been proposed, we call it 8,000 permanent compositions. Since you wrote yourself the number will fall by the end of this year, it is said that it will go from 6,000 300 to 6,000. I would expect you to have all these analyses done yourself, but if you wrote in the White Paper that there is a possibility of re-introduction of recruitment. As for the costs, Madam Secretary of State, I would ask you not to deceive. Here I have 17 slides, Ministry of Defence, Slovenian Army: Source data of personnel and logistics requirements for the possible introduction of recruitment with a projection of training costs. I believe you know that. The cost of training of a member: The assessment of the training costs of a member is based on the costs of training members on TVSU, the amount of costs, the regular generation, is approximately EUR 366 per individual. Estimate of training costs for thousands of members – a million 300. Staff cost of re-introduction of the recruitment system, examinations, cardiologist, chest X-rays, totalling EUR 322. 2 million 271 thousand in the case of 9 thousand subscribers per year. As far as other personnel costs are concerned. Cash prizes 15 million 500, travel costs 3 million 600, supplementary health insurance 900 000, total 20 million euros. The additional costs of the permanent establishment for training purposes shall be stated by all officers, logistic officers, officers, then all as far as storage is concerned, unit commander, three troops, number of persons 3, company logistics 3, company commander 3, master of learning water 12, master of apprenticeship 36, total 57. A total salary review, for 61 people, costs 72 thousand, annually 866 thousand. Then the remaining personnel costs. Total staff costs, medical examination costs for 9 thousand subscribers, variant A costs, if only in Vipava, 2 million 200, if at multiple locations, are the same. The cost of three months of training in the field of human resources for 9,000 recruits was estimated here for three months, 20 million euros. Total costs for staff trained, €800 and €900 000 respectively. In short, costs, if only in Vipava, 23 million 200, if there were multiple locations, 23 million 271 thousand. Then there's the cost of health care. Infrastructural costs: »We appreciate that there would be no cost of new construction in the locations at the moment.« We're talking about the Divine White. We're talking about the Vipava, the Permanent and the New City. “In the event that a decision on the location of Postojna is taken, which is also intended for the installation of units for training at Počk and accommodation for the purposes of HNS, it would be appropriate to renovate the facility 14 which would allow the installation of up to 600 members.” The estimated cost of such a renovation or construction would be EUR 3 million. Costs of additional logistics provision – 30 thousand, fuel consumption 40 000, purchase 4x4 vehicles 100 000, equipment with combat uniforms 3 million 600, additional protective equipment 24 000. Finally, total costs – costs of logistical provision of 10 million 341 000, costs in the staffing area of 23 million 271 000. Costs of recruitment total – 33 million 612 thousand 767. Madam Secretary of State, I received this information when I wrote to the Ministry for my graduation assignment, how it was with the cost of relaunching the recruitment, and they sent it to me. Official document of the Ministry of Defence, where the relaunching of the 9 thousand callers is estimated at EUR 33 million annually. Now you tell me where you got ten times your height. Where do you get ten times your height? I would ask him to answer that question first, because this is the most important thing right now — as far as the numbers are concerned. Then I'll keep asking questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you very much. If the Secretary of State wants to answer now, he can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Of course, we have different parameters. The legislative proposal covers all the obligations that qualify for recruitment, that is 90,000 people between the ages of 17 and 27. It is said that the category of calculations was made on the basis of professional services at this number, it is not 9 thousand, but 90,000, because the legislative proposal speaks of reactivation of the kit and does not define a certain year when this would start, it is said to be how many old recruits, but it is actually 17 to 27, meaning 90,000 people.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Speaker, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u118	Look, what you're saying isn't true. We have clearly written that the law would enter into force on September 1st, and we have also clearly written down how it goes, when you are a recruit, when you are a bond, in short, when you start your job. It's fascinating to me that you're explaining your marriage as if we're going to put everyone in the military in one year from 18 to 30. Of course it doesn't. It holds what the Ministry of Defence has just found out – about 9,000 a year. Approximately 9,000, which is the cost of EUR 33 million, not EUR 300 million, as you wanted to manipulate the matter. As far as the costs are concerned, we have made the matter very clear. The most amazing thing is what the secretary of state said, it's going to cost 300 million -- now we see that it's going to be ten times less. If you have so inflated the budget in the coalition – what Prime Minister Janez Janša said yesterday to be a few hundred million holes – if you have been making up the budget like you are making up numbers here, then I really care about this budget. Apparently, my colleague Bandelli confirmed this in his debate yesterday, and something will be missing. But what did you say? “We will have to give these 300 million euros here instead of giving for the equipment, for the personnel – what about our commitments to NATO?” And that's what the secretary of state says, who wrote in the White Paper on Slovenian Defence that the first medium battalion fighting group we promised Nate ten years ago would have — when? In 2027. But we promised her 2023. So you wouldn't be here about who's making commitments about NATO, because unfortunately you're not. We'll make sure we do. It will be difficult, but at least we will send a signal that we are taking matters seriously, and not that the Slovenian Army will be 100% complete only in 2035, when we are probably here in this Parliament, those we are today will no longer be. My colleague Kordish said, "Must suffer people into the repressive organs of the state." Where does it say that? Is UKC Ljubljana a repressive body of the state? Is anyone who chooses voluntarily not to go military service to the military but to go civilian service in one of the health institutions forcibly placed in the country’s repressive organs? Let me know what a repressive body of the state is the Ljubljana University Clinical Center. What is the repressive body of protection and rescue in the Republic of Slovenia? There's some brainwashing, there's no point in commenting on the ruling class. I also agree with what SMC colleagues have said, some other aspects, the time dimension, the organisation itself. I believe that this government should be taking defence in two directions or two main points. One is that we are preparing to reintroduce the recruitment system and the other is that we are investing all our efforts in consolidating the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army. It is said that we are following the goals that we have set ourselves to pursue the goals that we have long promised our allies. And this is also what one of the Members said that the citizens have in their heads, that someone will defend us – no, if we don't defend ourselves, no one will defend us, no one will defend us, no connection then no one else. Because the last visit, which was made by NATO in the Ministry of Defence, showed all the brilliance and misery of the Slovenian Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Army. It wasn't a nice visit. The results are also not friendly, so it will be necessary to go in this direction to immediately raise the number of permanent compositions of the Slovenian Army. How do you do that? Surely the Slovenian Army is not a place in the single pay system. It is certainly necessary to do so with certain benefits that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces would have, some of the benefits that I will then count, which are possible, with a positive promotion of the military profession and, of course, by investing in something. I am sure that, as long as we have basic military training before the start of recruitment, a large number of young people would be attracted if, after these three and a half months of doing so, they were not given a thousand 500 euros, but 5,000 euros. They would be invited to discuss the matter well, come to basic military training, the prize of EUR 5,000, after you have successfully completed this training, if you go to the reserve, there is such a reward, but you can also work in the Slovenian Army, and some others. In short, there are many proposals, many measures, how to improve the situation, and not least, the profession of a soldier is chosen by citizens and citizens not only because the profession suits them, but also because of personal benefit. But the personal benefit is to pay that you are paid for your job and that you are paid honestly and that you can survive with this salary. In the previous term, we watched the sad images of members and members of the Slovenian Army going to Karitas for humanitarian packages. Those who don't go anymore have set up a job elsewhere. And as a result of this decline, there is no dynamic picture of completion, Madam Secretary of State. Once again, this was filed before the government collapsed or before Marjan Sarec overthrows the government. I believe that with potential coalition partners we will be able to agree further on how, when and in what way.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has Miha Kordish and Mr Marko Bandelli is being prepared. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The Slovenian Army, as we have it, is a sub-contracting corps of NATO. It's not just a valuable statement from us in Levica, it's something that even the political class is setting up. But this sub-contracting body of the union then in this instant performs wrinkles of little social benefits. It's mostly meant for two. First time. In order to provide funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the acquisition of unnecessary weapons and other unnecessary military equipment, which is not primarily intended to defend the homeland, but to subsidise the military industrial complexes of our largest so-called allies within the NATO Union. And a second time. As an auxiliary force within the NATO Union for the occupation of the countries of the global south, or to participate in the American and other imperialism exercised by the emperors. Today, the proposer would upgrade this dishonorable function, in which the Slovenian Armed Forces, at the will of the political class, have been promoted by so-called recruitment. The argument put forward by the drafter for recruitment is that, for the first time, the staff composition of the Slovenian Army is too low, and for the second time, czech, how Slovenia is militarily threatened, says. Let's go in one order. Humanities of the Slovenian Army. This does not mean that the Slovenian Army does not have enough members on any serious criteria to consider how we will defend our country, what is necessary to defend the Republic of Slovenia. These figures are made on the basis of promises made by the political class voluntarily, without consulting the public, without social consensus, given the summit of NATO, various generals and other representatives of military bureaucracy and military ravens. And after he made those promises, he transferred them to the doctrinal documents we have in the country. These documents say that we have to have 7,000 permanent members, and because these purely administrativeally bureaucratic numbers are not fulfilled, now starts a panic: “We don’t have enough soldiers! What's going on with the Slovenian Army? This is not going to work." As soon as we understand this context, it is clear to us that this is an artificial panic, and for it, more than human development, is hiding underlining the ever stronger involvement of the Slovenian Army within the framework of NATO. The second argument favoured by the applicants is a threat argument. Please, colleagues and colleagues, how is Slovenia under military threat? The entire political class has been forced to face facts and to admit that Slovenia is not under military threat, following our insistence and asking questions in the previous mandate. We are surrounded by virtually all nations, which are or are supposed to be our allies, Austria, our northern neighbour, is neutral. To all these countries, the political class says that friendly countries are not entirely unjustifiable. Who, then, would threaten us militarily? The Russian Federation? This is also a mantra from the top of the NATO relationship, which was adopted by the Slovenian political establishment, is plagued by reality. So who are these recruits supposed to be defending us from? Before refugees, naked and barefoot, who walk a few thousand kilometres, they knock on the borders of our country, seeking refuge, and leave their countries of origin largely because of being scattered by the NATO alliance or our ally's husband? In short, the argument “we are threatened, let us draw people into the army” does not drink water. It's all a clean factory and a political fiction. What really lies behind the idea of re-entering recruitment in the context of the Slovenian Army as a subcontractor of American imperialism is brainwashing Slovenian youth. After you, ladies and gentlemen have sold out state silver, privatized most of the promising companies after you have broken down the social system, after you have distributed the decent level of payment that a person receives for work, after you have created the housing crisis with inactivity, after you dismantled social public health, now you want, you want to suffer in every way the people in the army, so that you can put them in their head, so that they can be proud of these achievements for three decades of the long-standing destruction of society! Nationalism instead of social security, obedience to authority instead of active citizenship – this is the main function of recruitment, as proposed. Ladies and gentlemen, for such an army as Nate's contingent, for such a recruitment, who wants to follow people's brains with false patriotism, we will not allow even one life of Slovenian youth in Levica, but to steal six months of life immediately after high school – there is no way! And if necessary, we will also defend this commitment with a reference to the legislative referendum if this law is adopted. Two more notes below the line. It may now work as if I am discussing only and only against the SDS proposal. It won't be exactly right. It is true that today we are considering a proposal for recruitment submitted by the SDS, but it is also true that not a month ago, the White Paper on Defence, which was created under a coalition tactic, is now a former coalition, and which also foresees the introduction of recruitment, if not by 2025, by 2030. So today's controversy against recruitment, which is aimed at SDS law, is as valid as the controversy against the position of the political centre, which is signed under the same military concept and under the same idea of putting people on the force in the barracks, and only a little later can it be worn into a little more flowers. And a second time. I would like to reply to my colleague Mahnic, who has gone astray, when we are talking about the kind of forced suffering we are in Levica that those who do not really want to serve the military can always choose civil service. In doing so, he aptly forgot to say that their law is in every way trying to restrict civil service and turn people away from it. If someone grabs the gun, it's a six-month military deadline. If someone grabs a shovel in the context of civil service, a 12-month term is provided for it. It is said that in any way to prevent people from going to serve, not to serve as civilians, but to go to uniforms, there are some disciplinary, authoritarian verticals who, from day to day, wash them, love a flag that has taken away a decent apartment that has taken away from them the possibility of decent pay for decent work, a flag that surrounds the political class while selling state property and helping Berlin, Washington and Brussels. We don't need that kind of patriotism. Such patriotism is empty. Just because today’s youth is not nearly stupid and has missed all these blisters, they now want to send her into the army for training. You can be sure that we will do everything in Levica not to allow you to do so, or you intend to do so in the kind of parliamentary right that is about to ascend to power, or you intend to do so in the future in the political environment, as promised by the White Paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Bandelli has the floor, and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I am pleased to hear my name mentioned several times because it means that my debates also fall to fertile ground. So I'm very glad. I have a document here, by chance, let me fix it, in case I make a mistake, about the abolition of the military obligation we were talking about here, that was February 14, 2002. A group of 22 Members, SDS, Nova Slovenija and SMS proposed this. At the conference, SDS President Janez Janša explained everything. Is there any other SDS?Oh, my God! I am only asking now because what I am seeing here was then a proposal to put an end to this and today you are grappling horribly to re-establish this matter. However, we have written precisely in the law: according to the proposal of the law, a general military obligation could be reinstated on a proposal from the Government of the National Assembly, with an increase in the risk of an attack on the country. I can't see we're under attack! I can be wrong. I don't know, you can, you probably missed out, or I don't know, well. I mean, that was the only reason we could reintroduce the military arm. The youth is disgusted. I don't know how many of you, colleagues, calls, one or the other, I personally got them and the youth is appalled at this initiative. Let's be honest, let's just say that young people don't want to get back together. Let me be clear. You know, it's not a solution to the military -- and it's not even a money problem, because in any way the money would have been transferred to it, but it's not a solution to the military -- that the recruits would be defending our borders, anyway. We need a professional army to be professional. We need technical, highly qualified technical and professional personnel. That's what we need. The one that already exists. We need the right frame, we need to raise wages for these people. That's what we have to do! Why don't we go into the army, why aren't there too little footage in there, and why aren't there too few people? Because they're underpaid! We need to know and understand that we have to pay these people fair and square so they can go in. And not ordinary soldiers. We need to hire some kind of developmental expertise. It's our army! What do we want with the 2 million people we have here?Oh, my God! What kind of army would we train here if not an expert to help and work in a foreign field as an expert?Oh, my God! This is a mission that we have to assume here. If I set the example for my army. I've served 18 months. Not a year, 18 months in Italy in the Navy and Coast Guard, I'll be honest. And because I was that kind of person, because I was that kind of person, that kind of guy, I took away something good from it. I learned to sail the high seas, learned some other things like this and other things that came right in my life. But it was a case of someone taking positive things away from there. Most people just cried about how we've been losing out here for days, months, years. Why is that? Make him a professional. That's my personal opinion, and I think there's more. Then I hear in the debate here that – then I looked at the documents a little bit – then we stopped the army even nine months before the deadline. So, is it true that this army really didn't need it anymore because it was only costing, or what was it? I mean, all I'm asking right now is, I don't have an answer. The Secretary of State will be able to tell you why it was cancelled before the deadline. If we're going to reinstate this army, we're going 20 years ago. So, let's stand up in time 20 years ago, what's been going on. I think it's totally out of the question. We will, if this happens – I believe that now there will not be, given what I have seen, but the promises are, a coalition contract is a contract and something will have to work on it, I don't know what it will be like, but know that if this is accepted, we will – literally steal half a year from every child. Stole. That's it. That's a fact. It was interesting – I mean, I have it, a handsome colleague from the Slovenian National Party, who mentions bigger on the FDV – that the military will now make character and sexual orientation! [[…]] Will the army tell him how he's sexually oriented?Oh, my God! The army will show where he'll go to the FDV, where he can go to the night he'll go?Oh, my God! I mean, where are we? Character, character. The character doesn't make an army, the character is in our DNA, there can be no other. It's not the army that does this thing. Every man is born like this, he has his own genetic structure, and that gives him character. The example, the training, and all things needed to be done at home are important and important, not the military. Reverse! If the army is still tired, it does the opposite because it can go into depression because they feel completely unnecessary there. The whole picture of this matter needs to be reviewed a little bit. It's no problem to re-establish the logistics issue and what it is. It's not a problem, because it's just a matter of time and it's a matter of time to set up this thing, but it's unnecessary and irrelevant. I think I'm going to end up not talking then, but I think it's really an intervention in the freedom of an individual. That's it. And that's why I'm gonna be absolutely up against this. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor, and Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. After all these contributions, it seems to me that it is time for us to start talking seriously about this subject, without any unnecessary inputs and ridicule, not by ourselves, but especially by this country. Those politicians or those politicians who don't share this moment's concerns about the situation in the Slovenian Army and the security of this country, I think you're playing with fire. You're playing with fire. The fact is, I did not invent an assessment of the annual report on the readiness of the Slovenian Army, but these are the findings. And these findings, Your Honor, are as follows. In a calm time sufficient, in the event of a threat, insufficient assessment. It's a condition. This is the situation we have today, and I personally fear the politicians and politicians who sit in this Slovenian Parliament and defend this situation. The condition that we're not ready for anything to happen. You know, some of you were talking about taking half a year of life for individuals if the recruitment was once established. I fear what will happen to citizens and citizens' lives if something happens to this country because we will not be able to defend our own country. Anja is not going anywhere, not yet, colleague Lydia Mirnik. I'm still in the National Assembly, and I've been elected, unlike you, with as many votes as possible. But I'm afraid, but I'm really afraid of what happens if we leave things the way they are. And someone obviously enjoys this state of affairs — an underestimation of that extremely sufficient assessment in a peaceful state. We have before us a proposal that saves only one part, and this is the introduction of recruitment. I am pleased that the coalition parties that signed the coalition are aware of Slovenia's security situation. That's why they're also in the coalition, we've somehow written down the gradual introduction of recruitment. There are a lot of open questions here, and it is right that we are talking about these issues, but the worst part is that we are cutting and listening to things that literally humiliate the Slovenian Army. Kissing the Slovenian flag – Comrade Miha Kordiš has never been to the barracks before, even when he could come with us when we had the Defence Committee, he was not there, he was not there and he hardly speaks to anyone who kisses the Slovenian flag at the barracks. You humiliate Slovenian soldiers, I can tell you that, and that's why you can be ashamed. It was interesting, however, what a fellow Kordish said in his position. He said: “People do not want to join this army.” When could I agree with you or with you, but I say otherwise. Slovenian boys and girls do not want to join the Slovenian Army under the conditions they are. Not that they don't want to join the military, but the conditions are to keep them from making that decision. We can do an experiment if you agree to do one experiment to, for example, one civilian institute, for example, the Peace Institute, take all the money to see how many remain. I don't think so. In the Slovenian Army, however, under these conditions, some of these people still remain. But it is true that there are fewer and fewer. That there are fewer and that the trend we have shows nothing positive. I agree with that. And that it is necessary to cut down fundamentally into this system in order to reverse the trend. It's an emergency. This is essential because security is an important category and is classified by citizens and citizens as one of the highest cities, as regards some categories that are important for people's lives. The fact is, you know, if we look at the white book, there are some, I'll say, more benign measures, as far as human resources are concerned. There's a lot going on today. You know, the promotion of the Slovenian Army, that's not enough. Promotion of the Slovenian Army is already taking place today in one way or another. We all know that famous slogan, at home, but that's not enough. There are some measures here, and on the other hand, it is not just that you should attract a new frame, and that would be your main work, because the human resources problem is one of the key reasons we have such low grades. But the problem is even bigger, because those who now exist in this system are leaving. That means we're not able to contain them either. We are talking about how we will attract new – not a trend of departures from the Slovenian Army compared to arrivals we are not able to change or turn it into a positive number. Personally, that's the problem. An even bigger problem is that the existing Slovenian Army, through its own survey – which was done years ago, has not changed significantly since then – has itself assessed that they have been demotivated. That they're demotivated and that it's not always about money, that it's about other things that aren't good. It was mentioned earlier in the Department of Defense that she said recruitment wasn't good. I wonder what this department has done to make things different. What suggestions came from this department to improve the situation of the Slovenian Armed Forces? They struggle a little, or if they were, obviously, and if they were taken into account, it's all fog, because things are only getting worse and we're just gonna have to do something. I said one of the measures could be recruitment. What my colleague Miha said, I also cannot fully agree that he is somehow forcing this bill to go on serving this half-year military service. But there's a difference. We have to admit, it's different if you're around 24 hours and you have training all day, or if you're operating for eight hours and then you're going home. Probably that's the difference, and it's the right thing to know, and that's why it's longer once. If that were true, it should be nearly three times longer because it is 24 hours or eight hours. But here, we think that if once it is longer, the matter is somehow correct compared to those who would opt for a military form of service to the state. But they don't serve the state, because they would serve themselves. It's about your own country, because it's not about doing something for someone else, it's about working for yourself and for your loved ones and for your surroundings. But it seems to me that in a society that is becoming very egotistical and self-sufficient, very important. Very important. A few more associations, a healthy society, not a playful society, but it would be very useful. And cooperation as well. Today, everything revolves too much around the individual and how self-sufficient we are. However, it is important to know that we are social beings and that it is still important that we cooperate. Even in this national council. Even in this national council. I understand those who have concerns today, and I also understand those who have said that there is still a need to make a debate on this bill, absolutely, but I do not understand those who do not give a single chance to any action that would improve the state of the Slovenian Army. For, as has been said, the measures so far are ineffective, and the situation is poor. That's what the annual grades say. And something has to be done. Now they say we're not in a state of war. Of course we're not. Well, when we're in a state of war, it'll probably be too late for anything to happen. That's ridiculous. You just have to be ready for anything. It's like you tell 10 doctors, you don't have to be prepared for, I don't know, a coronary outbreak, because it's not there when it is, but it will. It's probably necessary to be prepared early. Something needs to be done in the field of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the situation in the Slovenian Army. That is, what we have today, namely the professional Slovenian Army, absolutely important steps forward, take important steps forward, because it is a shame to talk about the white book, what you will do to get new people if you leave. So these aren't the right solutions. There is something that needs to be done for the existing frame. After 45 years – this is still very blurry and many are afraid of what will happen after theirs, I will say the most beautiful years they give in this profession and what will be taken into account and so on. I believe that the recruitment proposal, as I have said – with all the concerns that I respect and am willing to talk about them and listen to different sides – is the right way. How, in what way, when, of course, it is still a matter of debate, a matter of consensus. But, damn it, dear colleagues and colleagues, we're gonna have to do something. Because what is today is not enough. And this is judged by the president of the state, not by Anya Bah Gibert. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u126	Thank you. Kissing the flag is a metaphor for false patriotism, not some physical act that would actually be carried out in the barracks. I think that this was quite clear from my debate, if only it wanted to be heard and interpreted honestly. This patriotism, which is preached at the same time as recruitment, is complicated. Make no mistaka. Alone, colleague Anja Bah Žibert, you said, people are social beings and we live in a community. Yeah. In what case are they proud of this community? Let us take a look at the specific circumstances of young people. They will be proud of themselves of the community that provides them with a fair payment, a quality job that provides them with a roof over their heads. Not that – what? Now, young men go into the army, come out of the army, those who don't go to college, go ahead and open up an espa where they beat the crap out of them. Even those who then make a few years of college finish college, they also open espies and beat their misery like pretzels. And for that, should their material, bad, disadvantaged situation then be grateful? Because that would communicate with them, they would be beheaded by an army of gunmen, as the political class imagines. That and nothing else. False nationalism. When there is nothing more in society that we can truly be proud of as individuals, the prosperity that we can be proud of remains only hymns, flags, nationalism and hatred for each other – this is the meaning of the term “kissing the flag”. It's the other way around. Civil service is not self-evident. You give a role, they accept your role, they can reject your role, and in the past, every fourth role has been rejected. You also wrote your own bill to extend civil service to 12 months, maintaining military service for six months solely to prevent people from using civil service. So, not today, when you're trying to force forcing people into Nate's army, to justify this by driving an ambulance to UKC. If we lack people for an ambulance in the UKC, let's pay well those people who do it, let's offer a little better salary and we'll get some extra, which now doesn't have a proper education and a willingness to work, but it's gone with a belly for bread abroad. Not because he's missing an army, but because he's missing an apartment here, he's missing a decent salary and he lacks respect for his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik has the floor and Mr Matjaž German is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues! Recruitment is the past, I suggest we look to the future. Will compulsory military service in youths awaken empathy? No, no, no. Feeling what's right and what's wrong? No, no, no. Ethicality? No, no, no. Honesty? No, no, no. Forgive others? No, no, no. A sense of community? No, no, no. Ready to help the elderly, the young, the migrants, the pensioners? No, no, no. Humanitarianism? No, no, no. Traditional moral values, then? No, no, no. Maybe two — order and patriotism, but not necessarily. Not even by coercion in the 21st century, where, as we know, there is increasing individualism. I read somewhere today that introducing a military obligation is like putting a plastic bag on a drowning man's head. Can you imagine? Someone's drowning and you put a plastic bag on his head. That's a very well-spoken sentence, isn't it? Therefore, the questions raised by the proposal for a law tabled by the SDS are the following. First time. Who are the recruits? Boys and girls mandatory? I will allow myself to read Roman Vodeb's comment, quote: “For the dialers have a syringe of testosterone out of their ears, and young women also have an unbridled passion. Who could have tamed it in the war rooms?" End of story. Another time. Where will you take the equipment, technical resources, training centres, military stations, instructors, who must be present 24 hours a day for 365 days, and last but not least the auxiliary staff? Third time. Does this mean that we will then, of course, send them to NATO missions to Afghanistan, Iraq and Lebanon everywhere because current missions are today? We know that the increased number of members of the Slovenian Army and the number of members in the reserve also means increased obligations to NATO. So that's the point? On these questions, I suppose the proposaler will also answer me. Fourth time. How much money do we need when we call on the reservists and, of course, their employers want a replacement? But, of course, the proposaler forgets to think about it. And five times, even crucial, at this moment the current issue. Will we send these callers to protect our southern border? This will, you know, be real, because this has been very topical all along, even now that they haven't been to the government. Maybe it won't be like this anymore. I really want you to give me the answers to these questions. But I would expect at least here today in the Defence Minister's Chamber, which will – given what I read in the newspaper, if it will, I don't know, but I'm reading it, I suppose, because it's attractive to have lights, they said, they taught me – that I'd be listening here. I would feel that way if he was already a Member of Parliament, but if now this is our job here. Dr Klemen Grošelj, whom you all know, answers that the system has more options than just what the proposer proposes. For the first time, the so-called voluntary call, when the entire cohort of recruits is invited to serve, only volunteers whose response is encouraged by certain intangible incentives and the length of service may also change. Mr Mahnic, Mr Mahnic, spoke earlier about some of the monetary compensations that sounded very nice, but they sounded about the same as what Mrs Kolinda, the former President of Croatia, said. And, however, Mr Grošelj is still talking about, secondly, the introduction of basic training for an individual in the length of one or two months and then the transition to a reserve. So, Mr Grošelj is talking about some other options that could be introduced today. Now, here's a comment on the reasons you cited for the reference and for the amendment of this law. One of them is, as you wrote down, the strengthening of patriotism and the strengthening of psychophysical readiness. That's why boys and girls have to go into the army to strengthen their patriotism and to be psychologically prepared. As far as patriotism is concerned, as a former professor of sociology, I must tell you that at this point we can also handle this with the school system. We already know something, I don't know if you know the mandatory selection content in high school, in high school, and the selection content offered in primary schools today. So there's something about patriotism right now. As far as psychophysical preparedness is concerned, I suggest the following: sport. The more involved in sports activities. And I'm gonna talk about my kids again. I have two sons who won't be required to join the army. My two sons are Jewish, and another is a dancer of Latin American dances, and another is a climber. Believe me, they're very psychologically prepared, so you don't have to join the army. May I conclude by quoting Mr Vodeb, who says so. I quote: “I personally think teenagers can fit into adult men even without compulsory military service. Indeed, the military would not harm them — even to their advantage in the field of mental normalization. But it seems to me that the process of graduation, growing up, at this time, at this social moment, could be changed, not by the introduction of compulsory military service. For societies, the country and young men themselves, the process of growing up could be changed – perhaps by introducing physical work, what work practices, where it would not only be typed on smartphones, tablets and computer keyboards.” End of story. I add to this that in this way young people can learn all the values that I have listed at the outset and they would not be taught in the compulsory service of military service. I will not support this proposal, but I will be happy to hear the answers to my questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The applicant made a statement. Mr. Jean-Mahnich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u130	Thank you. Some of the questions in this confession to the concerned mother who was afraid to send her sons into the army were correct and the debate was in place. First of all, I would like to say that all that, colleague Lydia, you mentioned at the outset, is whether she will raise the military to raise them to another army, is humanitarianism, some value, what I know, what else you've listed — no, it won't. Because it's not an army mission. The task of the military is elsewhere, and it is enshrined in the Defence Act, paragraphs 37a and 37a. As far as drowning and plastic bags are concerned. I think that this government, which is now on its way out, has been giving a plastic bag to a drowning man if we're looking at the drowning Slovenian army. And what is on the table today is a straw to this drowning, but when we come to the realization of this and some other solutions, we will be able to reach the surface of this drowning, called the Slovenian Army. Where the funds would come from, it was a question. The funds will be provided by reallocation of existing funds within the Ministry of Defence. That's the first thing. And secondly, we intend to make a serious commitment to our allies, and we will not allow the defence budget to continue for another 10 years at 1% of GDP. But gradual approximation – by 2026 I think we should achieve this – 2% of GDP. So the funds are going to be provided. As for whether or not we're sending these recruits to Nate's missions. My colleague, if you'd read the law, you'd see the law forbidding it. In short, you can't use recruits to send them to international operations and missions. That's not allowed by the law. We have a professional army to do that. As far as Mr Grošlja is concerned, look, he was the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, showing what he knows, especially showing what he does not know. So his opinion here is not relevant to me, because we know what it's like when the theorist meets with practice. Theoretician Klemen Grošelj met with practice at the Ministry of Defence and we have seen that the matter is not the one he has just explained. Who will be the recruits, it's known, it's in the article. As far as coercion is concerned. Once again, I'm saying there's no compulsion. Someone who will use conscience will be able to go to civilian service. That's more or less what I think. But there's one more thing I'd like to say. Maybe the secretary of state. Now he still thinks the limit is 27 years if you want basic military training. We raised the previous term from 25 to 27 years. Can you tell me why? Why is that a limit? Why can't someone who's older? In that media talk I had with Tatiana Bobnar, CEO of the police, we also talked about this subject of age limitations. Do you know what she said to me? There's no age limit in the police if someone wants to become a cop because the age line is unconstitutional. The age limit is unconstitutional. We have 27 years set for the Slovenian Army. This border is unconstitutional. From the explanation that someone at the age of thirty-five, even forty can be more fit and more capable of doing TVSU than those under the age of 27. So I'm interested, even though you're leaving now, if there's ever been a thought and a work in this direction, I'm particularly interested in this number for 27 years, where.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Matjaž German has the floor, but Mr Gregor Perič is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues! The motioner says the government has two objectives. One is to achieve 2% of GDP, GDP, I apologize for making that promise under NATO, and the other is to introduce recruitment. And I'm saying that not one way or the other, together, it's impossible to achieve. You're not even going to introduce recruitment in two years. I'm more than sure about that. The debate itself today and the seriousness of the debate – and this is one of your top themes in the last few days when you talk about the content of the new coalition and new commitments – today we have two SDS Members, three SMC Members, one Member of Desus and no New Slovenia Member when we are talking about a topic that is among the more exposed coalition themes and part of the most fundamental agreement between the new coalition partners. If I let anyone go, I apologize. In 2002, John Janša, the first to sign, signed a proposal to abolish — correct me if it is wrong — recruitment. So, was that judgment wrong or was that judgment wrong? What judgment is wrong, then? 64 states have compulsory military service, 88 have no military service, and 21 countries of this world have no military service. We are talking about an important topic, a social theme that could only change the dynamics of our society. Not from the sentiments of the Yugoslav People's Army and our boys who were familiar with different cultures, the religions of the then state, the deep sentiment and memory, or the Territorial Defence or later the Slovenian Army, which at least reminded us of that period of independence after 1991. With all our pride and enthusiasm, we wanted to be part of collective protection, that is, part of the NATO alliance. The abolition of the military term or recruitment was one of the main reasons for the decision that Slovenia wants to be a part of, I will say, the collective protection or association of NATO. We have not had a deep debate on this subject, we have not assessed whether the defence system is capable of conducting quality recruitment education, we have not provided the appropriate accommodation and equipment that recruits would need for appropriate training, Mr Mahnic, and weapons management, we have not provided any resources. And most importantly, we have not reached a social consensus. This is not warned by politicians or Members of Parliament, but by experts. You yourself have said, a respected proposalr, in the procedural work that implementation will not take place, or the enforcement of this law or recruitment will not take place on September 1st, but allow me to read article 17. This is what you wrote in the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Military Duty on page 11, where Article 17 states, I quote: "In the proposed article we define the entry into force and the entry into force of the law. Due to all the procedures necessary to restore the exercise of military duty, we propose," and note here that "the first deployments to military service begin with 1. 9. 2020.’ I don't know what you were trying to explain, Mr Mahnic, because your material proves otherwise. According to the Government, the costs per bond, and here attention, for the service of the military deadline to be carried out in four modern learning centres, would amount to €12,000 per year. Three calls per year would be made for 2,000 subscribers, six times twelve times 12 thousand per year, and that would be 72 million per year, according to government estimates. Number two. To build these four modern educational centres, where recruits would probably also be educated about modern warfare, they would need four times 50 million, that is 200 million euros. Third time. To update the four existing troops, it would take 40 million euros. The purchase of minimal equipment, weapons and equipment would require €39 million. So I am telling you that both objectives are impossible to achieve. And this recruitment, this bill proposal, is also, I think, a mockery of your coalition partners. You've done so badly, despite this, I'm going to say, by looking for some compromises at the last moment when you're addressing the audience with the fact that this is a little bit of a suggestion, because we're going to be amendments anyway, because we're already going to agree. And we are talking about one of the most important vitals, including geopolitical decisions in the Republic of Slovenia, but the SDS puts this, for the first time, into a coalition agreement, secondly, so little for a joke, little for sure that we will talk here today! With all seriousness and all due respect, but it's completely unreal. I don't even know what I'm talking about on such a serious subject, because the presence in the hall and the weight of the darkness are saying that we're wasting our time, which we're going to spend three hours on this subject. And the last part. This one I believe will be the closest to the proposalr, because we are always talking about our obligations to NATO. By the way, I should like to point out that we have been in an extremely institutional crisis for years now when we are talking about an alliance. In these days, it is possible to hear from the Defence Minister of one of the countries, I am talking about Greece, when he speaks to another country, I am talking about Turkey, that it is now implementing by releasing, opening or opening the door to an invasion of Greece. Two members of the NATO liaison. We're in this club, too. I do not agree that this is the worst club in the world, but I agree that this club will in the future need to be radically restored and to set new missions for the future if it wants to continue to play its role in particular to preserve peace and security. This part, which I wanted to expose specifically, mainly touches on incompetence. If we engage in recruitment, we will achieve the 2% target that we have set ourselves in the alliance in order to actually achieve our commitments. Dear Vice President, thank you so much for your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Gregor Perič has the floor and Mr Primož Siter is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! If we are going to a serious country, then we must also take care of this subsystem of security and I think there must be no debate here and there can be no debate. But the debate may be about what security means to each of us. For someone, it is merely a feeling, and for someone else, as well as a purely specific obligation to have certain jobs, we must pay them. Most of the time they're resting somewhere, waiting for the situation to come up, and we activate them. But then nobody's mad that we have them. Let me remind you, I don't know, the floods in the railroads or the acorns when we had it. At the time, no one was angry that we had soldiers but that they had some equipment to have some quadricycles, after which they fell trees when they ran over various snowy and frozen paths and transported people virtually back into civilization. At that time, when we have to pay for these services, we have to deduct quite a lot of money from the budget that could be earmarked for the many problems that we as a society and as a country have, then it is certainly a cost. I have a feeling that our membership regarding then is understood as being a member of some golf club, but we come here to play a little bit and I am a membership there paying or fulfilling those commitments. On the other hand, we take that positive aspect of some security or some stability in the region as self-evident. Perhaps it would not be too much to think that, at the same time, our companies are operating in a much more stable and secure environment and are thinking much easier about being ambitious in investing, in providing additional jobs and more. But when we talk about a concrete solution, how to perform this security function or function of the army in our country, the fact that we have moved from one system to another in the past, that is to say, from recruitment to professional. To do so, some rather in-depth analysis was carried out, which looked at various aspects, aspects, including price, and many others. Even if, as a society or as a policy, we decide to go in the opposite direction, I think that a similar analysis should be carried out again. Any debate, any debate in this direction is, of course, useful and good if we do not harm the social subsystems. If I listen to some colleagues, in these discussions they certainly do not contribute to making it easier or more responsible for the potential profession of a soldier or a similar service, including a police officer in the final phase, a firefighter or someone who works in security and intelligence services or anything else, which may have slipped away from me, civil protection. We need to be more careful here. As it is said, the path is not one, the path can be more. They can be upgraded, complemented, so we're here to help find solutions. As a liberal, I am personally rather unloved that someone under some compulsion has to perform compulsory military service, as I say unloved that someone has to be vaccinated. However, it is clear to me that if there is some degree of transplantation in our population, there is an increase in health risks. And it is also clear to me that in a country where certain subsystems do not work optimally, we need to look for some solutions and find some compromises. If we can explain these compromises to people, they will understand them, and they will support them in the final stage. If we are looking for some direction of reflection or concrete solutions in relation to the situation in which we are, it is certainly one of the possibilities that we continue to strengthen the existing professional army with various measures, which are linked not only to financial aspects, i.e. to payment, but also to others, to those softer working conditions, i.e. higher housing availability or a reduction in the required level of education, additional education and even greater care for the military after 45 years of age, when we know that they are no longer able to do this job, but of course they can be very useful to our society with the knowledge they have, which are coming to many and many people right. After all, we have assured our existence in the 1990s in some way as well as the country, because if everyone just said - something will happen, someone will do something about it, will take care of our security; and if there were no police and territorial defences then, the Manuvrean structures of national protection, probably those key moments would have run out a lot differently. Whoever says we don't need an army, that statement or that hypothesis, I don't know what to call it, is pretty bold. Nor is it true that since we are in NATO, we must now keep some such systems; and that if we were to get out of NATO, then there would be no cost to the army. That's absolutely not true. We can only look north and look at the case of Austria. Austria is not related to NATO and has a considerable or high amount of military service for the military, but also has a mandatory military service. There is no debate because they are aware that if they want to ensure some basic level of security, including military security, then this system costs something and has to be paid and also provided with some personnel. When we talk about human resources, this recruitment system has made it possible in some way that many more people or young people have gone through these kinds and then it's also for other subsystems in the field of security, for the police, and for firefighters probably for a lot of other things, it's much easier to detect those potentials and then include them within these structures. Today we may have a little more problems with this address and reflection in the SMC has also gone in the direction of transforming the structure that already exists, say military camp. As far as I know, in the summers of about 10 and 11 days, some voluntary education is carried out for 100 young people, and there is also someone who has this interest or desire that attracts it, who can test and assess whether it is appropriate for him or for him or for him or not. It may also be possible to reshape this structure slightly, to supplement it, to place it over time during a study period or during a school year, not affecting the study process; or, on the other hand, that it has no effect on when someone will be on the labour market, to represent the smallest distortion in the labour market itself in the search for employment or in maintaining an existing job, if someone is already a student and has found a job, and perhaps the employer would rather wait for it at that address. The possibilities for self-optimisation are great, the debate has never harmed, but above all it seems to me that it must not be exclusive and that we must first and foremost have the ability to provide the Slovenian military and other structures with the right conditions for work. Another aspect that may be somewhat neglected is the fact that in Slovenia we have about 60 000 voluntary firefighters or the only area of firefighting is more than 120 000 members, with some active as firefighters, others slightly less. We also have, at the final stage, campers and scouts, whose founder was the original soldier, who was this story of teaching young people for some responsible citizenship and, above all, for the pursuit of peace he upgraded and built it as some kind of network that operates practically around the world. The direction of thinking is great, and I would like to think that in the future, when we're still, I believe, open this subject, let's try all these structures, all these components of our society in some smart way to integrate. And all of these resources – human resources, finance and others – will be used to the maximum extent possible, so that at the final stage Slovenia will be the country where some security is ensured, because today's situation can change as well. But I do believe that at that time we will not agree to sit down and hold hands and sing Kumbaya and wait for what will happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lydia Divac Mirnik has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you for this replica. No, Mr. Gregor, to you, but to Miss Mahniku, who unfortunately is not in the hall. I had to obtain accurate information. I would like to replicate to him his statement that this government, talking about the government of Marjana Sarca, put a bag on the head of the Slovenian Army. Unfortunately, the reality is different, Mr. Mahnic, yours will tell you what I've been saying. In the 2020 budget, we have 15 million more money for the military, and in 2021 it is planned, say and write, almost 25 million more for the military. What's this money going to be about to do to let him know, because he obviously doesn't know it. Supply of Slovenian Armed Forces uniform, military equipment, replacements of members of the contractual reserve, equipment and operations of the Slovenian Armed Forces, infantry weapons and ammunition, training and exercises, helicopter emergency medical assistance, operation of Falcon aircraft, maintenance of military infrastructure, operation of a central training centre in Postojna, weapons and equipment of special forces, purchase of military and engineering equipment and more. So much for the statement that the government of Marjana Sarca put the bag on top of the defence ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Primoz Siter has the floor. But get ready, mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, hello! As Miha's colleague pointed out in the beginning, so will I first turn to history. In 2002, Janez Janša and his SDS were the key players in the fact that the compulsory recruitment was even abolished. Of course, it was then a game of the entire political establishment as some pre-referendum candy that provided enough votes for subsequent inclusion in NATO. We'll end the mandatory recruitment and then we'll go to NATO so that we don't send our boys and girls on some of Nat's missions. It was a very thoughtful action. However, it concluded with one Janša’s position in this area. As he says, I quote: “By abandoning the general military obligation that has been translated into the economy by a sensitive tax for half of the citizens in the country who have to sacrifice their free time or their time for such training”, but now pay attention, “by doing so, Slovenia is stepping to a higher level in civil development and agrees with the the thesis that citizens are only burdened as necessary.” Janez Janša, 2002. Now there you go. I fast-forward to 2020, 18 years later, where I wonder why now the diametric opposite of what the same party was defending at the time. But what worries me is I'm not some fan of conspiracy theories, but these two levels of communication here. We have the main positions or main content dimensions of the proposal, it is called protection or response to potential military threats, and a rise in human resources perfection in the Slovenian Army. Once again, Slovenia is not in any way, and so far all politicians have agreed, militarily threatened. Nobody's threatening us. We are surrounded by friendly countries, we have a history of good relations, good diplomacy. While three of these have historically had some territorial aspirations in Slovenian territory, one not, but also now the situation with everyone on economic, political, cultural, at all levels is completely friendly, in no way indicative of any military conflict. Even some third countries cannot be thrown into this pool by those who potentially threaten Slovenia. The only threat factor that is here comes – paradoxically – with our NATO membership. Slovenia is an important infrastructure member on NATO's map. It allows transport across the entire X, from north to south, and from east to west. Here is the only military threat factor Slovenia has if a third country would like to get into NATO's infrastructure, which, by the way, is in Slovenia. Then it's not a guarantee of peace that they like to sell to us, but a greater risk factor. Now for the promotion of human perfection. The Slovenian Army has its own voluntary service programme for all those who wish to contribute to its human resources perfection. That the Slovenian Army is understaffed, we all agree, that's true. But the problem we're facing is the methodology of this statement, the methodology we came up with this statement. We have taken the actual threat of Slovenia as a factor in determining this or the agreement of the Slovenian political class with the summit of NATO, who said you must have so many numbers, so many infrastructures, so many weapons? Until the last bullet, we know how much we need and how much GDP we need to lean on the NATO connection. And if citizens who want to grab arms and train in military skills want to get involved, they have a voluntary service programme here, and the numbers are very interesting. In 2018, 135 candidates, 111 of them men and 24 women, entered 70 of them through the initial examination of the general conditions, 59 of them men and 11 women. Numbers that clearly indicate how many of those tens of thousands who are enrolled in military records each year actually want to come up with what they actually think about enlisting in the military. And these are the two main communication lines on which the applicant has decided to communicate with the public, namely military threat and human resources failure. However, it is evident, as we have already presented today, that this is another scenario below, which is essential to an ideological nature. On such occasions, I always remember Rambo Amadeus, an artist from our former homeland who once brilliantly defined what nationalism is: Nationalism is what happens under 300 euros a month. And all the rest of that up there is coffee shops, fashion and everything else, as he says, palamuking. So if you want to be a nationalist, you have to be too small, you have to blame someone else, you have to be poor. And this institution, when we ignore the social state on the one hand, and on the other hand we raise so-called patriots, let's say that we're raising some nationalistic mentality, is worrying. Let's let patriots build up, let's make soldiers patriotic by paying them to give whoever's there now a decent salary. Not that my soldier friend, who is two years before retirement, is watching if he moves to the Balkans to be able to afford anything. Let us give these young people, even if they are from the FDV, a reason to be proud of what they have; not to make obedient followers of them without the ability to think critically. But if I recited one foreign artist, I quote another in my conclusion. Not that we are building this mentality among Slovenian youths who have no chance of their own apartment or whatever, they will lose another year to follow some river adopted by an American army poet or their Marines. In the spirit of criticism of our cooperation regarding then I will conclude in their official language: Ours is not to question why, ours is to do or die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Andrei Reich. Get ready, Mr. Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you very much, colleague Tina Hefferle, for your word. What can I say about all these debates, as a liberal, I find it very difficult to accept the State's demand that recruitment be compulsory and that this is not really a question for those who are most concerned, young people. Any decision in this direction must be taken by consensus, on the basis of a social agreement and by consensus. But I have a feeling we're dealing with this at the wrong end. The poor interest of citizens in military service must be addressed where the cause arises; and this, of course, will not solve the introduction of the recruitment system itself. He's here today in our neighborhood, in Cankar's home, a world engineering convention. I'll tell you a story that many people don't know. The job of a construction engineer is the second oldest profession in the world. It evolved from a military engineer, in English it's called a military engineer. And what does a military engineer do in the military? He builds broken bridges, he builds broken infrastructure, and this is a matter that we need to provide to young people if they want to join the military voluntarily, so that they can work in their profession for which they have been trained, and so continue to excel in the military. It is not right to propose essentially lowering entry standards into the military. I don't think that's the right message. The real message is that if we want young people to be drawn into this soldier’s profession, they can do a double profession in the military, that is, a soldier and one for whom they have learned and who will be able to perform even after he is too old to serve his country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart now has the floor. But get ready, Mr. Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Slovenia has already decided to join the European Union and NATO for a professional army before entering the European Union and, of course, to abolish compulsory military service. On 23 March 2003, we decided to enter NATO at the referendum, and the process has been ongoing since 1993. That's important because you can't decide on any fundamental changes in a few months. The referendum took place under the slogan – Home in Europe, safe in NATO, if we remember. The entry arguments were: a secure and stable environment for country-wide development, a strengthened geopolitical position of Slovenia, enhanced defence capabilities of armed forces, professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and a long-term reduction in defence spending, equal decision-making on security and political issues of Euro-Atlantic space. Thus, since 2004, we have been building the defence system of Slovenia under the auspices of NATO, which is certainly sufficient for peacetime and mission delivery, and for this we devote a good percentage of GDP. In the former South, we gave 5.6% of GDP, as I recall. If we compare the Slovenian defence system by the number of soldiers per capita with neighbouring countries, we find the following. Let me say first that Slovenia has 7,000 soldiers per 2.1 million inhabitants. Austria has 47 000 per 8.8 million inhabitants, Croatia 15 000 per 4.1 million inhabitants, Italy 95 000 per 60 million inhabitants and Hungary 25 000 per 2.7 million inhabitants. Now there's a bunch of numbers proposed here, and it's probably hard to imagine what that means. However, if you count this as a number of citizens defending one soldier, the situation is as follows: in Slovenia 1 soldier defends 300 citizens, in Croatia 1 soldier defends 273 citizens, in Hungary 1 soldier defends 388 citizens, in Italy 1 soldier defends 631 citizens and in Austria 1 soldier defends 187 citizens. Of course, it must be said that Austria is neutral and there is compulsory military service. Here I am asked a question that may not be most appropriate – What kind of security do we get from invested resources, from living forces and from costs? However, I would like to point out that the current Military Duty Act already provides for the introduction of a recruitment system in the event of direct military threat to the State. The proposal for activation is submitted by the Government and confirmed by the National Assembly. That was already said today. And here we have to ask ourselves whether potential recruits are adequately qualified for this type of activation. Here I see the need, however, to ensure that potential recruits are properly trained for the proper use of weapons and knowledge of the basic doctrine of protecting the homeland. Simply put, but very important. If we do not do this preventively, we will expose potential recruits to an unappreciative situation of personal distress and chaoticity. Of course, I speak from my own experience of the 1991 war of independence for Slovenia. It's not that easy to load a weapon and aim if you're not capable of it. However, access to such training may take place over a period of several weeks and during refresher training in certain periods later. I do not imagine, however, that, in the light of the familiar situation in the Slovenian military and given resources, a mandatory service of military service could be introduced in such a short period of time, as proposed by the proposer. Therefore, there is no need for resources, equipment, troops, necessary personnel, which are already lacking for the regular operation of the professional army. Above all, there is no willingness of citizens and citizens. On this side of my veterans of the 1991 war of independence for Slovenia, I leave everything else to the professions, how and what and when it will be decided for the professional army and when and how it will involve the reserve – trained civilians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The speaker, Jean Mahnic, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you. First I must read, one of the soldiers sent to pear from the SDS: "Dear, please, if someone asks Lidija Dijak Mirnik whether she thinks or even believes that 6000 300 existing members of the Slovenian Army do not have the character and moral content that she so vehemently denied. Please tell us in front of all Slovenia how we have rotted professional members of the Slovenian Army." That's what I had to say, because this soldier signed her name and name. I also checked it on Facebook and it does exist. What colleague Lenart said in the end is more in the sense that it is a problem to send someone into some battle if they are not capable of handling weapons, I agree with that. But we already have this problem under existing legislation, because it clearly states that, with the increased possibility of attacking the country, the call of citizens and citizens is immediately launched, the implementation of the Law on Military Duty and that the content is reduced to three months. But the problem is that the geopolitical situation can change quickly. In 1991, it did not start three months before June 26, when the attack on Slovenia began, but in Pekra, it started a long time ago. The first generation, in which Franz Breznik also served, began to train substantially earlier, precisely because of the fact that he is becoming less and less citizens who are skilled at handling weapons. But we do know that apart from the computer, if we're talking about some hybrid cyber warfare, he's not fighting weapons yet. As far as my German colleague is concerned, I think it is possible to take a policy towards earmarking 2% of GDP for defence and also to introduce recruitment. Several times it was said, and also colleagues from Germany and colleagues from Lenart pointed out 2002 when they were in the professional army. No, that wasn't the wrong decision back then. But wrong decisions were made later that we came into this situation today. If at the time of professionalization, in fact then the PROVIJ project, says the professional army, were driven, as it was scheduled for me today to have 8,000 permanent members, 2,000 reserves, 15,000 voluntary reserves, I think that would be just fine. And today we wouldn't be talking about such measures, which are intended for you to get a pool of staff for the reserve and, of course, for the permanent composition, if anyone decides. Matjaž German also said – a social consensus. The Left has already announced the referendum. If this is confirmed in the referendum, this can be considered a social consensus. And according to the views, given that some public opinion measurements have already been made, people support this more than 60%. That we're part of the collective protection of NATO, that's what it is. However, Matjaž Germany will probably recall the previous term when we were both members of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, when we got on the table what papers where Slovenia was in those graphs. In the end, as regards the structure of the defence budget, as regards the level of the defence budget. The only positive thing with us is our as much as our participation in international operations and missions. And also when Matjaž German said that our proposal was a mockery of coalition partners. For the third or fourth time today, we introduced this law when the two current coalition partners were still the coalition partners of Matjaž Germany, so that we did not coordinate with Desus and SMC of this law. However, if this law is not confirmed, we will, of course, have to harmonise together the one that will lead to the realization of the coalition treaty at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The replica has Lydia the Wilderness Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I'd just like to replicate to Mr. Mahnic according to what he's read, what some professional soldier sent him. Firstly, I was not talking about the current professional army and not about members of the professional army who have such or different characteristics. But I was talking about the intention of SDS's proposer with this bill that if the boys go to the military, they'll become real grandfathers. You understand very well, Mr. Mahnic, I'm sure. But I have to say that I'm getting on these networks -- this is going to blow them up, I don't have to say it again -- what a fool I am, who I don't understand anything about anything anyway. Once again, I have great respect for the Slovenian Army, and I have great respect for the Slovenian soldiers who went on missions and who are on missions. And the government of Marjana Šarca has made it very clear how it feels about the Slovenian Army; by increasing it, and this enormously in no time do I know how much time it means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Joseph Lenart has the word. And after him, he'll be discussing the Victory of the Elinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. At one of his lectures, the former president of the country said: “With security it is as fresh air. If you have it, do not notice it; when it begins to run out it is very bad.” I just hope everyone here is well aware of how important security is. Members should be particularly aware of this. But those of you who are also on the Committee of the National Defence Council are somehow at a similar wavelength all the time. I must say that in recent times, in our ministry, we all somehow agree that this is a problem of perfection and that we are not successful. No matter what we've done lately, we're not successful, there's no effect. As a result, we have a great degree of imperfection, almost once more than the tide in recent times. Ms Ermenc, Commissioner General Staff, was also aware of this in an interview with Del in 2019. The title of the article was Slovenia has too few soldiers, it does not appear that we would soon have more. Mrs Ermenc has cited several of these problems, which have in fact led us to fail in recent times or to fail to meet the requirements of our allied members. We're running out of thousands of 300 or thousands of 400 soldiers. What are you supposed to be like, let's leave it at the moment, but the reports of experts who also wrote this white book on defence say that every year from 2020 to 2025 we should get 200 to 300 more soldiers so that we can somehow get to the number we committed to when we entered NATO. That is to say, if we were to stick to this book, which really stretched this plan a little bit, the program, how we're going to honor our army, to complete, would then be around 2035 7,000 active soldiers. But to be honest, by 2035, there is a high probability or possibility that our territory will be reduced by 10%. If we don't have an army, we can't protect our borders. Further, many different studies have been carried out to address this problem. We had so-called actions, some soft receptions. Among them were measures to present the profession of soldier, animation, motivation, promotion of pupils and students after school and so on; but all of this did not work. We've spent quite a bit of money on that. The people we're in here, we just need to know that from what we're doing, we need to achieve some effects. These effects then mean that we can feel safe in our country. I hope and believe that it will finally be possible to change this downward trend, and we will, if we do not do otherwise, stop this with the obligation to serve the military, to recruit. If it doesn't work, I do. If anyone has any other suggestions, we take it back. Then why is everybody saying this isn't right? Also today, Mrs Dolenc, the Ministry's representative – we have doubts that we do not need to increase this; we are aware of the weaknesses that we are not successful. All right, we have a mission to bring the Slovenian Army into shape. President Pahor said that he was not in a condition that would be satisfactory for the reading of the state. We're only talking about who's gonna defend us. None of Nate and not members of the Alliance promised us that NATO would protect us. In it we have only a measure of support, and we must all be aware of it and tell our children, as well as our sons, who are now a little in fear; but I do not know if mothers will protect their children and sons and men in the end. That's not how it's gonna work. We have some good people in this country who are capable of dealing with this problem, and we now have this proposal here, somehow the first steps towards making a difference. We know the military bonds can't go on a mission. I really don't know who read this proposal so badly, even though it has some shortcomings, but who has read so badly that they have concluded that we are now panicking, that the bondsmen will go on missions. After six months of training, these bonds are not prepared for anything other than simple work. But it's true that at this point in our country we have about 2,000 300 soldiers of infantry, those who can take arms in the event of aggression tomorrow. And these 2,000 300 people cannot defend both Maribor and our southern border. We're not saying anything's gonna happen, but it's already come and we need to be ready. I really regret that some people are somehow encouraging me not to let my parents go if we come to this. If they don't go, they'll go to civilian. If we're not for who we are in here to do something, then our children will be even less for that in five years. Now, in the event that Members should have a little more hearing, even though we have one of those different views and different policies, but we must clear up our precious youth and our dear citizens so that we can do something for this country first and then start to benefit from what this country can give us. Or if I sum up one of the American presidents: Don't ask yourself what the state can do for you. Ask yourself what you can do for your country. From this address I am also speaking out, the question is how long our allies are ready to wait for our promises, signed promises and treaties, what we will guarantee. We are trying to move this proposal into the SDS. I hope it goes further and there will be some adjustments, including suggestions, but don't tell me that the country can be without an army. It is possible to combine this system – partly professionally, partly, and also with some soft initial receptions can somehow be perfected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. And after him, he'll get the word of Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The army is one of the three postulates on which the state is founded. If there is no army, there is no country. And whoever is against our army is also against our country. Let us ask ourselves who is against Slovenia. Those who, according to Cardel's plan, are destroying the country. We heard that today from Left and SD. They're the ones who want to tear down the country and then make one cardelian colloquial, multiculture globalistic. If we look at which countries have a recruitment system, the first is neighbouring Austria, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, Finland, Greece and Lithuania, probably some other countries. 64 countries in the world have a recruitment system. And these countries are aware of what it means to have an army of their own. After all, the Vatican has its own army. But they can't think of an end to it, knowing that they're going to fall to the ground. Most in the Slovenian Parliament do not represent this because it does not represent what the state is, because they do not care about what our country is and who, if anyone attacked us, anyone — what would happen — would take off their pants and put their asses on. It's mostly our system. Moms were said to be in fear for their sons. It is not true that my mothers go to my house and say, “Give our sons to the army so that they can become heirs. ” What's happening now, it's all wet, wet. Most of what they do is they hang on the phone and they say, "Oh, my God, I met one such good cat. Where? On Facebook. This is a system in Slovenia now. It's a pimped-out generation today. And I judge by my daughters, and one is in high school, and the other is at the end of elementary school, that this new generation will be better, that these boys will grow eggs again, as it's called, which in these generations that run a lot of things today is not a very common thing. The fact is, if we want to have our own country, we have to have our own army. Switzerland is neutral. If a country isn't afraid of being attacked, it's Switzerland. But he does have an army, but he has a recruitment system, and yet all those who served the army have guns at home. And every two months they have to go, every two months they have to go with a gun to the shooting range, and they have to renew their weapons skills, shooting techniques, and so on. Switzerland has such a war aviation that Slovenia will never have in its life, because it seems to us that it is too much to buy any aircraft. What are we going to buy, what mobile bags for what homosexual variants? Thank you so much for doing such things. In the Slovenian National Party, we are proud of our army and our soldiers; it is true that everything is not organized together. But the guilt is not on the soldiers, the guilt is on the leadership staff, which is half the hell not worth it. But when they go to paint, there's more gold on their shoulders than the entire U.S. Army. But what does that mean? That means cutting heads, replacing them with the right people, and then having an army. If we have a large number of sub-office personnel there, this sub-office staff is already ready to train recruits. Six months is no big deal, six months is just enough for young people to learn order, respect for their homeland, respect for their supposed and many other things, and especially to know what their duty is, not just what their rights are. The sloths, the sloths, they get everything they want; but to those who want to stand in the position of the country and defend it, if necessary, we will take it all away. One last time, he said to me, "Victory, that's basically a gay country. That's what one told me two hours ago. I said, "Unfortunately, this is true as I see it. Well, I hope it ever changes. I hope that this government, which is now new, will set a different stage so that they will not be alone in here. Even with the LMŠ, with the SAB, with Desus at the SD, he's screaming, crying, and I don't know what: What's gonna happen to you? That's what's going to happen. The migrants were coming here, and they were already slaughtering and shooting everything. But when they come now – oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! The state must defend its borders. The Poles said, "We'll defend our borders with weapons, and if we have to, we'll shoot." In Greece, they defend their borders with weapons, and Slovenia will open the door and say – Come on, we will be humble. And if anyone comes into any apartment, they'll say, "You know what, just leave me one small corner in the kitchen and I'll cook for you, and you have fun with my wife and my daughters and so on. Is that why you're in here?Oh, my God! Are you to set up a base for the defense of the country? You're fucking it all up! It's gonna be a joke. It's gonna be a joke. At the time Slovenia was attacked, unfortunately very few Slovenians were defending this country with weapons. And I have to say that many of us had our weapons because we knew what was cooking. You forget that because you don't care. Because you don't care whether you speak German, Hungarian, Italian or maybe Croatian because you don't care. But there's one in here that doesn't matter, and that's why we support this law and we're going to fight for this law to be passed. There can always be some options to fix it a little bit here, a little bit there. But at the starting point, the Madonna Santa, are we a country or what we are?Oh, my God! Let's do something about this. But don't make a white book that's half the devil's worth, which is so much shit that it's not worth a secret to wipe your lower back because the paper's too hard. But it's too hard because he's fatter to look more like that white book. But inside, it's like a fluke. Some fear that our recruits should go to Nate's stuff around the world. No, that's where professionals go. A professional soldier is a soldier who's paid for it. That was why it was an endless worldwide disgrace when Erjavec essentially assured our soldiers that they had deserted. Our soldiers were so ashamed and unable to forgive our commanding officer for doing this. Something like this can be compared only to Italy, which jumped twice in every world war in the middle and betrayed its former allies. We've come so far. We don't want to go to NATO around the world because we didn't lose anything there. But that's not gonna happen to the recruits. The recruits are for that, and they're going to defend the country. Defending the country. These are two words which most of you do not represent, because you do not care because you are sellers of the land; and someone would even say traitors. That's why you can be ashamed if you don't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The replica has Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you. The victory of Jelinčič is evident that we are socialists against the state. But what is a modern country? The modern state is an organised political creation to ensure capital accumulation and the suppression of the working class on behalf of capitalists' profits. Its social function, formerly the fruit of individual class battles, is almost accidental. Because I advocate fraternity among the nations, because I advocate international labour solidarity and because I advocate global communism, I am not only for the abolition of one country, I am for the abolition of all countries. And if Mr Jelinčič thinks that men become heirs only through the military, then why are nationalists with Mr Jelinčič at the head of most mussels and snowflakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica. Be my guest, Victory Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And when I was here qualified as a pig, let the gentleman come here and tell me in the book, and he'll see who's a brat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I propose that we hold a debate, discuss it at a worthy level. I don't think there's any need for such calculations, not from the left and from the national. The next one has the word of Dr. Franz Ducky. And she'll get the word "magic" after him. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. If someone is monitoring this, they can see very quickly who or what is the greatest danger of Slovenia. 90 people sitting here. Then there are ministers and ministers, as well as sometimes any president or president of the country who sells his country for the photo-term. Unfortunately, I have to agree with the Noble One, after all, there is something in theory we call the three-part ideology of the Indo-Europeans. In this three-part ideology of bureaucracy, there is an army that answers questions about who you are, where you are, where you're going. I'm not doing an exhibition here about the character and the work of John Janez Janša. We've been listening too much these last few days. Just two things, if Ivan Janez is already quoting Franca Duck, that our program is the constitution, let him say he quotes Franca Duck; and somehow early in the fall he told me – Ah, because soon you can be the real opposition. And when we talked about the resources in the cafeteria, he literally said about the budget that you and Trinitarian Jelinčič had received, "that in what condition Mors is in, not even these pennies can use carefully." The end of the quote by John Janez Janša. What we're talking about today is essentially biopolitics. For me personally, the right of women to abortion is the end of Caesaropepism, a civil acquisition. For me, civilisational acquisition is also the professionalization of the military and the end of recruitment. Yeah, we've got a lot of problems with Morse, but I wouldn't talk about it as much as I would because it's insulting to a lot of people who have decided to go into this difficult shit that we've never really professionalized. And it's probably not Micah's fault and Micah Kordish's fault. At Alenka’s Bratušek, we probably blame her for not getting the biggest apples in primary school, which they have been saying these last days. There is nothing more dangerous than what I have said several times – you know that in the previous reference I have injected the problem of the situation in the Slovenian police – nothing is more dangerous than to develop half as much as not to say slabsier, but it is not the fault of the police or the professional composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the repressive systems. Because people are frustrated because they have too little wages because they don't know what will happen to them when they reach a certain age, and that's the problem that we have to deal with; and also from the Constitution, because the function of our army is defensive, even how to develop it. As for the young. If I'm half serious, half in a joke, in high school, we teach them well archery and that'll be enough to defend Slovenia. Let's give this money more to develop their intellectual abilities, especially programming. I already said in the magnetogram that Slovenia should be able to destroy the electricity distribution systems of neighbouring countries in order to be better here than they are. He's nodding at me because he understands what I'm talking about. We are part of a developed world where the military will be in politics. It's that team on Trstenjak, on the level of cyber warfare. What I'm listening to today is more a combination of some people's memories of JNA than they used to say. I've got a military license for a river diver. I was an engineer, by the way. On the Croatian side where part of my family lives, I also actually held some sort of village guard. I've decided to go to Slovenia. Frankly, I do not have dual citizenship because I did not agree with the HDZ policy, which will give me maybe three points in some inheritances, but I chose this Slovenia and this country, and I also want it to have properly armed military forces. A general of the neighbouring state with a long-standing internship in the army you mentioned said, "You know, when you buy weapons, the one in power gets 20%. It's always been like this, always will be. I'd rather spend that money for the young and let them decide for themselves, foucaultian, about their bodies. Our job is to develop systems that will enable them to do what we used to say in puberty – Expand your wings, you clumsy elephant. To allow them to be curious, to allow them to enter adult life. I mean, nowadays, if you're not a young doctor in a specialty class, you almost don't dare have a baby. Let's deal with it, not with the things we have here. We need a professional composition of the Slovenian Army. These people must be properly educated, satisfied, adequately paid. I wish there would be fewer small places among them in a new report from a particular body that we are reading in the basement, which also shows dissatisfaction. Missions we are participating in and under which mandate is a matter that should be seriously considered. There are also some key countries of the European Union – which Ivan Krasov said, which we often forget are essentially empires that have collapsed themselves, this is the beginning of the European Union – that are problematic to NATO. When in Germany in some serious newspapers, NATO is troubled, it is not some “grandmother’s show”, it is not an Orban press, it is not some sort of yellow press where some lobby will be dissatisfied with what Trček says about health care; it will write that he has done a film to him. These are some things that need to be seriously reconsidered, and this debate that is taking place today does not seriously reflect on this. I personally believe that we must have the appropriate structure of a professional army. It is probably worth considering whether that age is extended to 50 years. This structure needs to be moved quickly in the field, when necessary, I have repeatedly said that at least two operational helicopter squadrons should be needed. In our international missions, of course, we should also think about what John Janša was in his youth — a pensioner. Whether it was honest, whether it was dishonest, I don't know, many here you can see into everyone's head, I don't have that ability. But not playing with our kids now. But if someone needs an army to get his son to clean his bed, they'd better ask themselves where he missed the socialization of this child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. She'll get the word of Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today we have an extremely populist proposal on the table, and I am deeply saddened that by the proposaler, this is the SDS Group of Members, I see only four Members in the Chamber, which I think shows the seriousness of this issue. But what saddens me even more is that we have a proposal on the table today. Yesterday, a new cabinet term was confirmed, and we have already mentioned the name of the new defence minister, who comes from a number of members, and he is not in the Chamber today; I am extremely interested in what his opinion would be. If that is not the case, then I apologize to a potential candidate, but I still think it would be extremely interesting to hear a new composition of the government. Such a proposal should wait for the new minister. Because there are such important matters as national security, we are absolutely unable to talk here today. Especially is this populist proposal that we have on the table today unacceptable to young people. Nothing about young people without young people — we are constantly talking, so we would need their consensus. On the Internet, she also rounded up a petition against compulsory service of military service, 29. 2. 2020. This is also one indication of how some of the proposals are actually opposed. Let's go back a little bit. In 2003, the current candidate, together with Novo Slovenija, gave an explanation and abolished military service in the Slovenian Army. Today we have a proposal on the table to re-establish military service. But at this point, we forget article 62e of the Military Duty Act, which states: “The decision to reintroduce medical and other checks and psychological investigations, recruitment, military service referrals or replacement civil service and compulsory service in the reserve shall be taken by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia,” and listen, “to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with an increased threat of attack or direct war danger or when declaring a war or state of emergency in accordance with the law.” Today I wonder where we are, what message we give to the Slovenian public and what message we give to the foreign public, in this place. I think that this proposal on compulsory service of military service, which we have on the table today, will not solve the problem – the lack of soldiers, what we have absolutely, I will attach to it; but we will have to seek a broader political consensus and a wider society. It is unacceptable that young people will once again become so-called high moral, ethical citizens and also heirs by introducing military service. I think it's my duty as a mother to train my boyfriend so he can make his bed so he doesn't look constantly on the phone, but the way of life is a little different today. But this is the responsibility of parents in the first place, and then the appropriate institutions where young people today spend an extremely long time. In school, children are 6-8 hours old, and these institutions also simply need to be inspired. I absolutely agree that the country's security system is undernourished, that it will have to be allocated more resources, but not by the introduction of a military deadline. According to the government that does business, training, listen, it costs so much. The opinion, which was written by the Government on 27 February 2020, gives some estimates: for the service of the military deadline, which would be carried out in four modern learning centres, the annual cost of the bond would be EUR 12 000. Three recruitment calls per year of 2,000 recruits would be carried out, otherwise the applicant spoke of 9,000 subscribers per year, according to the government's estimate of 6,000, which would amount to 72 million euros at the annual level, say and write. Furthermore, under point 2: The construction of four modern educational centres, where recruits would most likely also be educated, would require 200 million euros. To update the four existing troops, it would take 40 million euros. To purchase the minimum necessary weapons and equipment – 39 million. And if we keep going, that's a lot of costs. Indeed, in 2020 and 2021 we earmarked more resources for the military. Otherwise, colleague Divac mentioned what would happen to this money, but I believe that the new government will have new priorities. And as the motioner has stated, if this proposal is adopted, they will be redeployed within the Ministry of Defence. Therefore, once again, it would be extremely important to wait for the new Minister of Defence to tell us where he would take this money to serve as recruits. And since I've always dealt with numbers in my entire professional career, I must say that we have a demographic picture that we don't have, which is not encouraging, that we haven't built a home for the elderly in recent years, your coalition contract has listed the construction of five homes for the elderly. With only the first point I have outlined, €72 million. How many houses can we build? And if one home is 10 million, it's seven homes for the elderly. You'll replicate me later, Mr. Mahnic. The question is indeed raised; I do not mention that we have schools in bad condition. Updates, reconstructions of schools would also be necessary, and this money would make sense to go somewhere else. Indeed, the important issue we are talking about today should be an in-depth debate, there is no doubt about it. To assess whether the defence system is capable of carrying out quality recruitment education, to ensure the appropriate accommodation and equipment that recruiters will need for appropriate training and weapons management, to provide resources and, as I have already mentioned, to achieve the widest possible consensus with policy, wider society and also with young people, for nothing without young people. It is true that today's current system of staffing of the Slovenian Armed Forces must be based on a highly professional professional professional army with a contractual composition, reserve composition and voluntary service of military service. As we have seen today, there are weaknesses, much effort will have to be made to gradually increase the resources for the military, to make the profession of soldiers attractive, to improve in particular the legal position of soldiers, the rights of soldiers after 45 years, to create solutions to the system of acquisition and retention of personnel in the structures of the Slovenian Armed Forces and also, possibly, the scholarship policy. The Social Democrats are absolutely concerned about security. That we're not ready, I don't think so. We showed it at the time of the refugee crisis, where the soldiers helped us. They did their job. There was also a speech that moms were in fear. I'm not afraid that a child should go into some sort of recruitment. But I have to say that if I'm not able to raise my child as a mother, no one else will. Then it's a really big problem. There's absolutely no one against our army. Our soldiers are highly trained. I respect their work. I also know how training is done for a soldier's profession. It's not easy. Education in Vipava is very difficult. It would be very interesting, but I'm sorry that I didn't get this data, the amount of rashes of those they accept. For when the candidates for the soldiers go through training, what soon many find is not for such work. Training is extremely difficult. However, I must say that some have been extremely eager, extremely hard to do, and they are doing so with all their heart. I think that the service of the military and the completion of the Slovenian Army can only be increased by establishing a modern, professional, efficient army in which an effective information and promotion service and motivation service will work; by establishing a military profession that will be respected in society. At that time, I believe that the motivation for decision-making for this profession will also be significantly greater, as well as the reward will have to be significantly better. As for the fact that we are poorly equipped or that the assessment of the military is such as this, I would just say the following that in 2012 we began to face the consequences of significant savings, including in the defence budget. And that's also why the grades are as bad as they are. However, worse estimates have also been partly influenced in recent years by changes in the evaluation methodology of 2012. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposaler Jean Mahnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u160	Thank you. Colonel Boštjan Močnik, a top expert, according to my assessment, one of the best Slovenian Army officers, proposes the following ways to resolve the professional composition, how to resolve this military downturn: benefits, supplements, intangible incentives, benefits for military families, professional retirement, for example 20 years of service and vocational retirement, and the receipt of a 50 to 60 % last-rate military pension, priority health care for members, free prosthetics, free kindergartens, provision of national professional qualifications with courses and schools to which members of the Slovenian military are subject, military trade, where they are purchased without tax, subsidised public transport, exit from public service status, termination of the logic of overtime, introduction of only an addition to field work, guided by the military trade, where they are purchased without tax, subsidised public transport, termination of the status of the public service, termination of the logic of the unit, introduction of an additional service, introduction into the field work allowance, guided by the career and the introduction of a special service, through the provision of a higher contract and improved implementation of the senior public service. Would you support that? I probably wouldn't. Mrs Muršič, don't talk about some in-depth debate and consensus, because you know that's not going to happen, because we can bring here 10 doctors of defense who will tell you why recruitment is good and your parties will still be against it. By the way, I now see that the FDV professors, the defense professors, are speaking up, I appreciate them very much, with all of them very well, but I missed my professors when there were public debates here. I really missed them. We had a national security strategy, there was no one. Mrs Juvan, Mr Trabilič or now he is the mayor, say Mr Prezelj – these are experts, understand the matter, know it; but I missed why they did not come. For example, when a public presentation of opinions on the Defence Act was made in the previous term and the Service Law on the Slovenian Army, none came. We can bring together a public presentation of opinions here in the event that there will soon be a law that can go through, of course we will, but political parties will not change their views, no matter what anyone says. You'll be Social Democrats against it, I know that, and no one will convince you. Now you can say how many homes for pensioners will be built for 72 million euros. Mrs Muršič, we said that we would build 5 homes for pensioners; you had a social welfare of six, seven years, you have not built any. We're going to give 72 million for the military, and we're going to make some other retirement home, because we think we can drive all of this together. And once again, I tell you that they don't hold that number, and the secretary of state hasn't explained where these numbers came from, because here are the images of the powerpoint of the Slovenian Army, where they've identified these numbers two years ago. Misdirection with these numbers makes no sense. But I agree with you and my colleague, Duck, as far as education is concerned at home. I'm not one to say that young people then form in the army, because that's not the job of the army. It's not the primary task of the socialisation army. But perhaps, Mrs Muršič, you agree that you, as the mother of your child, do not teach at home how to shoot a gun at a target or how to charge a gun. That's the army's job if anyone goes into the army.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The word is Matthew the Widow. But get ready for Igor Patchek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Today we have heard many words, different opinions, opinions and opinions, and so is the case, because we are only in the Parliamentary Chamber, where it is right to talk and finally agree on something. But beyond the fact that we have long been witnessing problems in the Slovenian Army, all of us from the introduction of the ZUJF continue to face the lack of technical equipment, vehicles, rolling stock, weapons, personal equipment for soldiers and so on; not to mention the blemish with shoes for soldiers, negative assessments by NATO representatives and ultimately the concern of the Commander-in-Chief, President of the State of Borut Pahor over the situation in the Slovenian Army. Most of these problems can be solved very quickly, without difficulty, if only the will is to provide adequate funding; but unfortunately all problems in this area will not be resolved. Today was an interesting article in Sunday, and I will only read one short insert to you because it is right to remember why there was an end to recruitment. Most recruits were called in 1994 — 12 thousand 283, 2001 — before the end of military service, and only 5,000 180 in the last year. By 1996, the civilian service of the military had been approved by 372 taxpayers and in 2001 a thousand 593. And if we sum it up and look at this statistic, there was a suspension at that given moment on the spot, because otherwise it would collapse itself. All young people made the most of their decision to serve the civil service of the military service; because they also had this right, they referred to the objection of conscience. They also have this possibility in this law, but today the times are different. What does objection to conscience mean? When someone is 18 years old and decides to object to conscience and decide to civil service compulsory military service, that means that even if he is an excellent athlete, because today we also heard about athletes, about physical readiness, he is a judoist and then he would like to be an instructor at the Police Academy, then because of his objection to conscience he will not be able to do so. And not just the police, they couldn't hire either the police or be a law enforcement officer and so on. That is why I consider that this is a broader problem in our society, to which we also need to approach more widely; and not to approach in such a way as this law is possible, which we adopt in a swift manner, that it is necessary to 1. 9. 2020 has already introduced a recruitment system. But before this introduction, we should have done everything else before. Before that, we need to ask ourselves why there is even a drop in the interest of uniformed professions in all areas, in the police, in law enforcement officers, in the military, and could list anyone else. That we must be aware that competent personnel are not collected on the road, we do not find them around any corner, but we only get to competent personnel in one systematic systemic way. And the problems of filling the existing defence structures with competent personnel are continuing, and they could also be solved by increasing wages. However, even though we would raise salaries for military personnel, which is almost necessary today, we can ask ourselves again to what point this will be encouraging, that our citizens or our staff pool, an empty human resources pool, will still decide to join the military, our professional army. There is absolutely a proposal on the ground, which we must truly be aware of, that we should improve working conditions, improve the legal position of the current professional members of the Slovenian Army, by upgrading rights, for example, soldiers after 45 years. And if I move on to measures to regulate this situation. We might ask ourselves how, in what way, this situation, which is a problem for our society, would be solved. One way could be to create better solutions to the system of acquisition and retention of personnel in the structures of the Slovenian Armed Forces, increase the possibility of voluntary military service, increase the contractual performance of military service in the Slovenian Army reserve and other motivational factors. However, if all these motivational factors were not sufficient, then it would be time for us to discuss the possibilities of introducing a recruitment system. But before that think and some ad hoc, fast, six months from now, I don't think it's fair, it's not the right time, and it's not the right time. For all of this we need the right approach and a real time frame. We need to identify the actual state of needs and available resources, from human resources, financial, logistical and material. For the professional, quality and efficient functioning of the system. Following this analysis, it is only possible to assess the real cost implementation of this recruitment system. If the true will, as I have already said in the introductions, will not be difficult to secure in the budget. But a bigger problem will be, like, a lot of people. Who's actually going to educate, who's going to be the instructor, and where we're going to get these resources that can double the job. In fact, we must not forget that there is very little in the Slovenian Army to miss. And when the recruitment system was introduced, the situation would only get worse. Professional soldiers, officers and officers who now train and train professional soldiers would use them to train military service recruits. I also miss this law, maybe the proposaler missed or didn't think that those who worked in the police and worked at a higher police school would be exempt from compulsory military service. Also, those professions that have more hours of gun dealing or shooting exercises, such as judicial officers, could be forgiven, are likely to find another profession. We need to prepare realistic options and setups for the implementation of this system. And once we've prepared the system when we have all the analyses on the table, and before that we'll do all the other options, whether that's really necessary, then it's logical to talk about introducing a recruitment system. However, once again, human resources, logistics, material-technical, financial, accommodation, time frame, these are all the problems you believe up to 1. 9. 2020 cannot be solved. I don't believe it's possible to solve this, even if the Ministry of Defense would have the resources. Because I believe they are already drowning in bureaucracy and work to complete their structures. I also have concerns, sometimes we said that we could get soldiers from the recruitment system who would then be employed in the Slovenian Army; but I wonder, I think this is a little over. I can't say that that would be true, but we can't say today that that wouldn't be true. However, I do not believe that mass in this empty human resources pool, which has decided, despite the mandatory recruitment system, to become employed in the Slovenian Army after the completion of the six-month training. But I agree with a lot of people, it's education that will make a citizen who will raise his country. The billboard system won't teach our kids how to make beds. Some of us didn't lose any memory of how this billboard system worked at the time. I wonder if they were at work for eight hours. The cleaners were cleaning their rooms, their moms were washing their uniforms at home, none of them were cooking, maybe they were making beds. And if anyone thinks we're going to be bringing up a recruitment system, he's made a big mistake. This is the job of the family and the education system. However, the recruitment system is needed when and if it will be, only to teach them how to handle weapons, as Comrade Mahnic said, shooting, exercises, knowledge of equipment. If we take a real look, we have – when we ask ourselves whether this is really necessary today, so quickly – already a legal guardian that we can activate the system immediately under certain conditions, so I estimate that there is no need for rush at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposaler Jean Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u164	I agree with you that after six months, not everyone will get a job. Probably a large majority will not, probably 90%, or even no more jobs. But the point is that we have a human resources pool for that reserve that we then pledged to have, and today we have absolutely nothing. As far as the personnel are concerned, we have a number of wealthy officers, over 3,000 officers. We also have a rich congregation of undersignors, and there are practically no soldiers. We have a broken relationship. And through the recruitment system, you get the personnel first for the soldiers. However, I agree with all this, but what should be done in this system. But just because it didn't happen, today we have such a problem that we came up with this proposal. I am still behind what General Geder said – When the salary of the ordinary soldier starts at the average Slovenian salary, then we will no longer have the personnel problems of the Slovenian Army. Therefore, the Slovenian Army must first be exempted from the single system of public sector wages. We know what problems we're going to have here. And then make a scale with all these extra benefits, and I think the human resources thing can be fixed. It is said that the new government should go in two directions, one to regulate this professional composition; and the other to prepare everything to then gradually start the case if this situation cannot be rectified.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Igor Peček, the last panellist, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Several debaters were happy to return to 2004 when a decision on the freezing of compulsory recruitment was taken, and they wondered why. Personally, I think that this measure of government was meaningful and reasonable. In the previous debate, it also proved to be why. I think there are two reasons for that. The first reason, of course, was that the security conditions that existed at the time or in our area were stable and that there were no reasons to maintain such a large structure at the time. Another reason is that the compulsory recruitment did not achieve the desired effect, in fact because an increasing number of recruits were deciding to serve a civilian military term. Let me just say that in the 12 years we've called up about 92,000 military recruits, each year the actual number of military recruits has dropped, so in 2003 there were only about 4 thousand 400. However, I do not believe that the reintroduction of military service in the form proposed in these amendments and additions to the Military Duty Act would benefit the Slovenian Army and the objectives we want to pursue in our society. Of course, there will always be a share of people in society who will advocate compulsory recruitment, consider that the military deadline must be compulsory, that is, deterring military threats, strengthening patriotism; and that young people will be raised in this way, and that ultimately this would also mean strengthening their psychophysical activities or abilities. This is true to the extent, but only for those who are willing to do so, so if I say more domestically, than what he has survived in the military, then also some experience he brings home. One of the reasons you state is the introduction of compulsory recruitment with the aim that if there was an armed attack, we do not have a young and middle generation in the Republic of Slovenia who could handle weapons and know basic military techniques. I really hope that we do not think that this young and middle generation, which will learn to shake hands with a weapon that will not be the most modern – because we know what weapons we give to recruiters first – will be sent to borders and expected to be able to defend some serious aggressor attack that will come to our territory with a highly qualified, qualified, high-tech, good technology and professional equipment; with a clear and precise goal. The point that I see in the relaunching of recruitment, however, is that more army numbers can actually play a key role when it comes to the functioning of the army in the crises that are taking place on our own, is said to be in national territory. But the question that comes out here is, what's the price? Already in the debate that I won't be too long, we played with numbers, we talked about 33, then 72, 100 million; I believe that the applicant got the right data, I don't doubt it at all, and I've also submitted them to us; and the question is, if we've operated before, that we need a thousand 800 and a few more euros a month for one migrant, and a thousand 360 for a soldier – just because he's settled somewhere to give him food, and I don't believe that. I think it costs us a lot more, and it's also right that it costs us significantly more. Following recent interviews with individual representatives of the Slovenian Armed Forces, most of them expressed doubts about compulsory recruitment. Doubts on the grounds that they were mainly alerted to the inadequate staffing structure, to the inadequate level and type of education, to the age of the staff and to what the proposer himself has already said, to the extremely unfavourable relationship between military officers and officers, which goes to the detriment of the soldiers. We know that today we are talking about some 35% of all those in the military who are actually soldiers. The conclusion was more or less common after these interviews, but the aim was that the introduction of recruitment in this way would not solve this, but that a solution should certainly be found in this area. It is not only a question of introducing a recruitment system, but in my opinion it is also a matter of whether we have actually prepared a comprehensive analysis and whether we have in a sufficiently thoughtful way prepared a basis for finally adopting the right solution. I still believe that the solution should be sought on a voluntary call, that this system already exists, that it should be modified on a specific system. I'm also sure they're guys who want recruits. Our mission or ministry should be to stimulate their response. I'll be a little more personal at the end. I served as a compulsory military officer in the Yugoslav People's Army, and I participated in the war for the liberation of Slovenia in 1991. It is true that there has been more than 30 years of this and I do not want to transfer this experience to the environment in which we are today. But I think the difference is whether you take a gun and go to a sports shooting range or you take a gun and you go hunting in the morning and you use it more for decoration; but I'm sorry, I don't want to offend hunters, far from that, because most hunters aren't shooting today, but animals are watching. That's why I think the gun should be carried by the one who wants it, by the one who's qualified, and by the one who has the knowledge to control it. I want a professional army, an army that will be well equipped to meet the modern challenges posed by military techniques, even when we are talking about cyber warfare. I respect our soldiers, and I'm sure we have a good army. The situation may not be the best. I do not hope to judge the number itself, nor do I have knowledge nor competence; this should be judged by the profession. However, I would ask myself, first of all, from this point of view or with my eyes, whether I would rather hire two good, qualified, motivated, competent co-workers with whom I would perform certain tasks, or whether I would take five less qualified, incompetent persons if they were the same. But let each of you answer that question. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government if he wants to. He does. State Secretary Mag. Natasha Dolenc, please. Please, if you'll stand up.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Just a few opening words. I have already said in the introduction that the assessment of the implications and further procedures will, of course, be a matter of a new government. As far as costs are concerned, of course the defence system works a lot of analyses in connection with the military deadline have been made in the past. To prepare a response to this bill, an additional analysis was given to the General Staff and the figures available were given by the professional services, says the General Staff. But it might be a good thing to say only individual parameters. The cost of the bond for six months is estimated at 12 000 euros, then one set of weapons and equipment – 6 000 500 euros, the construction of one modern training centre with training and shooting – 50 million and the modernisation of one of the barracks – 10 million. The military profession estimates that four learning centres and four military stations would be needed for this use. As for the issue of amending legislation, we have been working on a proposal for amendments to the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army in particular in relation to the status aspect, and of course this will now be a matter for the new Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? I do not see any interest in the debate, so I am concluding the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, IT'S ON THE PROPOSAL FOR AVENTIC EXPOSURE 7. Member of the Law on Interventional Measures to Ensure the Financial Stability of Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted by a group of ten Members and Members with the first signed by Janie Möderndorfer. In order to further explain the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u170	Nice hello to you all! As you know, in 2017 we passed an intervention law that decided in the National Assembly to cover past losses of EUR 136 million. There were heated debates at the time, why such a decision, but of course the intervention law was adopted. It is more than clear that with this money we finally want to close a certain story that the owner, that is, the founder of all public institutions, is obliged to cover the price difference and investment and everything else that has been done in the past. The law also provided for the establishment of remedial administrations and, accordingly, for some kind of control over the use of these funds. Everything was going according to the letter of the law until the budget inspection proposed or found out and based on its kind of interpretation of this law explained that there was a difference of €1 million and €800 thousand, I repeat, €1 million and €800 thousand of the total €136 million, which is to be used unintentionally or has to be returned to the budget. This was found at five hospitals, except for the Oncology Institute, which did not spend a single euro because it had a surplus over revenue and did not need it. It is four hospitals, I am not talking about the largest hospitals, it is not about the Maribor hospital or UKC Ljubljana that these funds must be returned to the budget. However, it should also be pointed out that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance has taken a kind of decision, which is that they interpret and interpret this law, as they think it is right, and, of course, set even a cut-off date with which these funds should be spent, although the law does not speak about it at all and does not specify any cut-off date. At the time when the funds were allocated and used, the interpretation of these interpretations of the cut-off date even changed, meaning that the interpretation or interpretation of this law, which in this case was adopted by the Ministry of Finance or Budget Inspection and also by the Ministry of Health. But you know that the only one who can explain the law in this country is the National Assembly, the one who has made or adopted it. At that time, the government or the competent ministry had never asked the National Assembly what it meant by the adoption of such an intervention law, nor had it proposed a change. The main purpose of the law is to spend these funds on past debts, not even withdraw them, because if that were to happen, they would end up with a negative. And it means that the next step means just a new act, a new step, that the founder will cover the loss again. In the meantime, other things will happen, which we will also comment on if there is a debate. That is why we have proposed an interpretation of this law, and that is why I also propose to the National Assembly on behalf of Members and also on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State and the decisions of the committee responsible to adopt such an interpretation and confirm it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was addressed by the Health Committee as the parent working body. I give the floor to Vice-President Jožet Lenart for the presentation of the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State! The Health Committee is at its 28th emergency session. 2. 2020 considered the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 7 of the Law on intervention measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Janije Möderndorfer. Members and members of the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons. The applicant pointed out that, due to conflicting interpretations and uncertainties and thus the resulting inequalities between the beneficiaries of the remedial measures, an authentic interpretation of Article 7 has been submitted, where the legislator should clearly define what is considered to be the intended use of funds in terms of the time component while taking into account the same conditions for all beneficiaries of the remedial measures. The correct interpretation, according to the applicant, is that the intentional use of funds means the payment of the outstanding public service obligations from the date of acquisition of the single transfer appropriations to cover the expenditure incurred over past years' expenditure until their consumption is not limited in time. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service points out that the authentic interpretation is not admissible either, as the content of the interpretation must be the same as that already in force. The representative of the Government considers that the authentic interpretation does not follow its purpose, but it already represents an amendment or amendment of the law, which is why it does not support it. The content and implementation of the provisions of the current law are clear and unequivocal in the view of the Government. The Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons considered that the authentic interpretation should be adopted and supported the text of the authentic interpretation. The representative of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the control of the budget, who charged the hospitals with the reimbursement of funds, rejected the allegations that the hospitals had not been treated equally and that they had used the cut-off date on 30 November 2017 for the eligible use of funds before the consent of the ministries. They also presented their views below: the representative of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, the Chairman of the Sanitation Committee, the Director of the General Hospital of Celje, the Director of the General Hospital of Trbovlje and the Director of the Hospital for Gynaecology and Birth of Kranj; and presented their complaints about the decision to recover the funds. In the debate, we have drawn up an opinion that it is not permissible for the intervention law to solve the problems of hospital liquidity by returning the funds received to the liquidity problem in fact to a new one. After the discussion, the Committee adopted the following two decisions with 15 votes in favour and no objection. First conclusion: The Health Committee considers that the authentic interpretation of Article 7 of the Law on Intervention Measures to Ensure the Financial Stability of Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, is necessary. Next decision: The Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 7 of the Law on Interventions to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions whose establishment is the Republic of Slovenia and the proposed authentic interpretation in the text submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Simoni Repar Bornšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u174	Dear Members and Members! Due to the high accumulated expenditure on revenue and resulting outstanding liabilities, the smooth implementation of public health services in public hospitals was jeopardised in 2017 as a poor liquidity situation could jeopardise the necessary supply of medicines and medical devices. Therefore, in September 2017, the Law on intervention measures to ensure financial stability in public health establishments, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of which EUR 135.7 million was allocated to 15 public hospitals to cover the excess of income. In the first paragraph of Article 7, the intervention law provided for the purpose of applying the funds received by hospitals for the purpose of, for the first time, the payment of outstanding liabilities to suppliers for supplies and services rendered on the basis of the provision of public service after maturity, and, secondly, the payment of loans under the country's single treasury account and to commercial banks hired to finance liquid liquidity. Due to different views, an authentic interpretation of Article 7 of the intervention law was given for consideration by Members and Members, according to which the use of the funds received by hospitals is timeless. On the basis of coordination with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health has taken a position on the interpretation of Article 7 of the Law and disagrees with this authentic interpretation for several reasons. When assessing the provisions of the law, account should be taken of its nature, namely the fact that it is not a customary law, but a so-called intervention law with urgent intervention measures that will remedy the negative results of public institutions over the years. Taking into account that the law does not directly specify the date of outstanding liabilities to suppliers for goods delivered and services provided on the basis of the provision of public service after maturity, it is necessary to use the Institute of Reasonable Time-limit in interpreting the law, since otherwise there could be an explanation that only those which were due to fall into unpaid liabilities would be considered to be due. 12. 2016, therefore, during the period during which the excess of expenditure on revenue was shown. The main objective of the law is the implementation of one-off measures for the financial recovery of public health institutions and then the rehabilitation of the institutions themselves. Measures to remedy the operation of institutions shall be completed in accordance with the purpose of the law with the date of receipt of the funds, i.e. 30. 11. 2017, therefore, the obligations of the institutions which have fallen since that date represent current expenditure. In view of the above, the Ministry of Health considers that the provision of Article 7 in itself is not unclear and, as such, does not allow for any different interpretations concerning the payment of which public health authorities may make provision for single transfer appropriations to cover expenditure on revenue from previous years. In addition, we believe that in the case of the proposed authentic interpretation, it is necessary to determine the content which it did not have when the law was in force, so it is a matter of amending or supplementing the regulation; and not of authentic interpretation. Amendments and additions to laws cannot be the subject of an authentic interpretation, but they can be the subject of a law that must be adopted in the legislative procedure, and we believe that this is not even meaningful in terms of the content and purpose of the law. Therefore, the Ministry of Health does not support the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 7 of the Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, since it considers that the content and implementation of the provisions of the intervention law are clear and unequivocal. In addition, the Ministry of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Law Service, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly have also supported such a position in addition to the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u176	In September 2017, an intervention law was passed providing 15 Slovenian hospitals with €136 million for the financial recovery of their operations. These remedial measures were urgently needed as hospitals have been so affected by the crisis that this has already begun to jeopardise the smooth implementation of public health services. Without intervention measures, the unfavourable liquidity situation of hospitals could also jeopardise the necessary supply of medicines and medical devices. Although the law does not set any cut-off date for spending this money, five hospitals are now expected to return part of the money received to the budget. The intervention law itself provides in Article 7 only for the purpose of spending the funds received, but not for the dynamics of this consumption. What this Article actually provides for is particularly important because last summer the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health subsequently set a cut-off date for the use of the funds received. The budget inspection, which is legally responsible for monitoring the appropriate use of remedial funds, carried out some controls before and some controls after the decision of the ministries, which is considered to be the cut-off date of consumption. The fact is that the budgetary inspection of hospitals was carried out on the basis of two different interpretations, even though the remedial measures were allocated to all recipients on the basis of the same criteria. Hospitals are therefore in a very uneven situation because some money should be returned to the budget, but others not. Due to the subsequent determination of the cut-off date for backward, a number of ambiguities occur in practice and one thing is therefore more than clear; the interpretation of this Article is absolutely necessary. We have therefore proposed in the SMC that the National Assembly adopt the interpretation of the article in a way that the consumption of the remedial measures received is not limited in time, as was our original purpose when the law was adopted. The interpretation of the Article is also essential in view of the fact that the interpretation of the legislation is solely for the National Assembly; not for the Ministry, not for the Government of Law, not for anyone else. By interpreting the legislation on their own initiative, they have certainly exceeded their powers. Moreover, the cut-off date has been changed several times between the two ministries, which clearly shows a lack of consistency. Although the ministries had difficulty interpreting the law, they did not propose that the interpretation of the article be adopted within half a year. Instead, the Government has preferred to issue decisions to five hospitals to return 1.8 million euros to the budget. We're in SMC, and we'll always be public health advocates. And that is why I reiterate that the purpose of the intervention law was to rehabilitate hospitals. The interpretation adopted by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance does not follow the basic purpose of this law. Moreover, it would result in further financial deterioration of individual hospitals. Therefore, of course, we are pleased that our proposal for an explanation on the parental committee has been adopted without a vote against. This proves that the decision of the budgetary inspection that hospitals have to return 1.8 million euros to the budget was inadequate. We will, of course, support the proposal of an authentic explanation in the SMC, as we have also prepared and tabled it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors will be presented by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! I will not repeat what the motioner has already said, as the rapporteur of the committee said, as the representative of the outgoing government commented. When I heard this, I kind of remembered in my head, at a third of the previous term, how a party with almost as many lawyers per square metre as one other FDV party has, in April of the current year, proposes a law that has a transitional decision at the end of the article to enter into force on 1 January this year. If there is a lesson to this story when you ask yourself — how did Hugo say: Hello, is anyone home? – is the lesson of this story that serious policy cannot be followed by what I call a bag of surprises with the parties one and a half term. After 30 years, we should somehow realize that you are a serious politician. Someone may also be a relatively top-notch professor, but I don't think about me here personally, and a political scientist, but it doesn't mean he's a good politician. Someone may also be a very well-recognizable university lawyer, but it doesn't mean they can master nomotechnics. This story, which we finally got, is actually crazy, because I can't say anything else. I am most afraid that some capable people, who are not trained again for such demanding functions of managing our secondary and tertiary levels of Slovenian public health, which we need bloodyly, will not even want to go into these stories anymore. Then we will only get from our quotas a party anything when it should be clear after 30 years that this is not the right way. Personally, I believe that these are probably the most difficult functions for the mayors of the municipalities, which, in any event, as the absent Member would say, we are now appointing them. And here I think there's some basic problem. The second lesson of the story is that, after all, we're all full-time, most of us are 30 plus, that when you remember some brilliant idea that even sounds so sexy, it cuts the date. Today, it's too bad that you sleep for about three days or a week before you start realizing this idea. Personally, in Levic, I will say that the nearest explanation given by the Director is, if I recall correctly, the General Hospital of Trbovlje. It was some kind of intervention law, and usually – you know, those of course, who we used to do serious financial work in life – do the work between Christmas and New Year, when others don't know what, maybe they're already wrapping up another round of gifts. As typical in Slovenia, where it is over-staffed from political quotas as it is capable, there is also some story about the Essema recruitment at Celje General Hospital. Let us be honest that the story will also have a judicial epilogue, because if legislation is in force, certain people from the hospital will also have to answer with their own money if I put it that way. And this is some slob that not only as a politician, even when I am no longer a politician, but as a citizen, I do not want to experience anymore in this society and the country or in the form of these intervention laws, or in this very important area, or in any other important area. And it seems to me that it is high time to ask ourselves how to proceed with Slovenian politics. Personally, I think it is necessary to professionalise it, that it is a profession carried out by people who bake crafts, as they say in Serbia. It is no coincidence that we now call a gentleman a doctor of the rules of procedure. And even though he was before, I hope you don't mind, an expert in the wood sector, but he studied this over the years and none of us goes to his knees, let alone to his navel; that you won't say that I'm just shimphing SDS. And this is kind of a lesson to me from this story – one of those stories when you're in Parliament and when you get on the table, the best thing in the office with your head is to stick it against the wall. But it seems to me that this is not our mission, and that we do not have such good wages, neither are we in the executive branch of power, that we go to such troubles, that I am polite in saying. We will, of course, vote in Levica as stated in Article 82 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you so much for this interesting presentation. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u180	President, thank you very much for your word. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 7 of the Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenian hospitals have had serious liquidity problems for the past 15 years. Some, such as the Slovenian hospital, have successfully implemented the rehabilitation program and have become successful during this time. Unfortunately, there are still about 12 public hospitals in Slovenia, whose business is illiquid. There are more reasons why some public hospitals drown in red numbers. We can talk about the staff or management of hospitals and the law on the functioning of public institutions, which determines their operation at the legal level, as well as the planal health system run by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. In New Slovenia, we reiterate the need to establish a public health system that will enable patients to have access to health services as quickly as possible. However, the Law on Intervention Measures, adopted in September 2017, provided additional financial resources for 15 public hospitals which were insolvent and provided them with additional funds to pay their outstanding obligations to suppliers for supplies and services and to pay the loans mainly hired to finance the current liquidity of public hospitals. So 15 Slovenian public hospitals are 30. 1. 2017 received funding of slightly more than 135 million. In view of the contradictory interpretations and ambiguities of Article 7 of the Act, inequalities between beneficiaries of remedial measures, in particular in terms of the time component, were consequently caused. The intentional use of funds means the payment of outstanding public service obligations and the payment of so-called losses from previous years until their consumption. Until the definition of cross-sectional law 31. 1. However, 2017 came subsequently, on the basis of an agreement between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, already after the implementation of the legal provisions. In New Slovenia we support the proposal for an authentic explanation, because only the National Assembly can explain the laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I would like to point out that, as long as this intervention law was adopted, the SAB has already pointed out the inadequacy of this law. And since this marriage was inappropriate, it also came on a day. At that time, the same parliamentary group had a government and a minister who is now proposing an authentic explanation. And today we're putting out some mistakes from the past. It is not to be forgotten that two thirds of the losses of these hospitals that went to the rehabilitation programmes following the decision of the Government were created in 2016 and 2017. What were the consequences of these losses? Because the same government has increased the salaries of doctors on the one hand, and on the other hand it has not provided health services with a source for this coverage. Therefore, the loss was caused by the fact that the then government imposed obligations on hospitals and public institutions, but did not provide resources for this. Once again, our health problems are piling up. It seems to some that this accumulation of problems fits perfectly. In 2011, the share of health care in the social product was 9.3. We've already fallen under 8 in the last year, so there's a disciplinarian going on. Scissors open. We're getting older, we're increasingly in need of health services and we're spending less money on this. But maybe privatisation is a solution. Maybe we're doing it on purpose. Maybe public health isn't going to hold on and we're going the other way. We'll see what happens, what happens next. We're putting out a fire today. We can spread it a little bit further. I mean, our criticisms were in place back then, but this money, this 136 million, it didn't end in patients, we have to be aware of that. He didn't shorten the waiting lines, he didn't change some things, nothing happened. Those 136 million went through only because of the spread, because you need to know that in hospitals or health homes, gross costs represent staff. Not some material, like, thirdly, the gross cost is staff. And if you raise your pay significantly to doctors, you get all the institutions in trouble. That is why in the future, as we have done so far, we will breathe a little as a collar to the Minister of Health, because there must be changes here. We have written down that this is our priority; however, the share of gross social product intended for health is decreasing. I don't know where this is taking us. However, I must say that we will support the proposal of this authentic explanation for a purely simple reason, so that we do not even get these hospitals into major difficulties, which are already due to lack of funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Branko Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Good-bye! When considering the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 7 of the Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, we have for the first time in the last few mandates witnessed that Members of the home labour body did not listen to the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Health, that the proposed authentic interpretation did not meet the condition of admissibility, as its adoption would constitute an amendment to the legal provision to which it relates. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation relates to a law whereby 15 hospitals, which at the end of 2016 showed an accumulative minus, received a total of almost EUR 136 million in rehabilitation funds in November 2017. The law provided that hospitals could use these funds to pay outstanding liabilities without setting a date by which unpaid liabilities would be considered to be due. This was determined by the Ministry of Finance and Health for a year and a half after the law was enacted, thus becoming the cut-off day on 30 November 2017 when the hospitals also received funds. However, since last year the budgetary inspectors found that, after their assessment of the funds they had spent, contrary to the provisions of the law, the general hospitals Trbovlje, Slovenj Gradec, Celje and the Cranian obstetricians had ordered the reimbursement of those funds they had spent on paying the liabilities with a later maturity date. However, the Oncology Institute must fully recover the funds, as there were no outstanding outstanding liabilities at that date. The hospitals complained about the inspectors' decision, but the government rejected their complaint. It is therefore all about whether or not a cut-off date will have to be added to the intervention law at the time; and whether hospitals that have spent their funds on obligations with a later date than they had already set out in the government and budgetary inspectors last year must pay back the money. The real question is therefore whether we will allow the intervention law to solve the problem of liquidity hospitals to do so now. In the Desus Group, we are not united as to who is right – the proponent of an authentic explanation or our legislative and legal service. The fact is that the answer depends on the perspective of the one who answers, because if we look at strictly legal, then we cannot agree with the applicant that an authentic explanation is necessary. However, if we look from the point of view of hospitals that are in liquidity difficulties not only because of their guilt but also because the health insurance company has not received all the obligations paid; then we must certainly agree with the applicant that the authentic explanation must be accepted and that the ministries have exceeded their powers by setting a cut-off date. In view of all of this, the vote of the Members of the Desus Group will be uneven. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be moved by Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u186	Nice hello to you all! It's true that we're repeating ourselves a little bit today, but that's not why. It is also such that it may be good that some things are heard repeatedly so that they will never happen again. In September 2017, the then Mira Cerar coalition in the National Assembly adopted the Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. By means of this Act, 15 hospitals which, on 31 December 2016, showed excess income expenditure, or at home loss, allocated EUR 136 million to suppliers for payment of outstanding liabilities. According to this law, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for the supervision of the budget. One of the fundamental problems of this intervention law is that there is no fixed date by which hospitals can also use these funds, or after a domestically stated cut-off date. At that time, Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc sent instructions to the hospitals at the time of receipt of the funds, stating: “The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has laid down for authentic interpretation the law on intervention measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, but the Ministry of Health has laid down Articles 7 and 8 of the said Act in relation to the purpose of the use of funds and the implementation of the audit on the use of funds, which is consistent with the Ministry of Finance.” She added: “At the same time, we add that the dedicated use of funds is not linked to the deadline set for carrying out the audit on the use of funds.” By 31 May 2018 at the latest, the recipients of the transfer assets had to carry out an audit of the use of the funds under the law. This has been done quite a bit, and inspections have also been carried out by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to monitor the budget. Irregularity has not been established. But what happened later? At the end of July 2019, after two years, the hospitals received a letter from the State secretaries of mags. Saša Jazbec from the Ministry of Finance and Dr Tomaž Pliberska from the Ministry of Health, which states that the cut-off date or date by which funds may be used is 30. 11. 2017. The secretaries of state thus allowed themselves to give themselves a very authentic explanation of the law. In view of the statements made by the Health Committee, we know that the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health was aware that only the National Assembly could provide an authentic explanation. As a result, some hospitals had to pay back the money they had received through the intervention law. The State secretaries exceeded their powers and caused damage to as many as five hospitals since the 15 which had to repay the funds. We did not support the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group of intervention laws in 2017. But today we will support an authentic explanation. We did not support the law because we felt that it was an extortion of suppliers who were supposed to threaten to stop supplying material in mid-2017. In this case, however, nothing has been done to reduce the prices of healthcare materials and to rationalise hospital operations. However, if hospitals have already received this money, it is important and right to use it or use it in accordance with the law and all under the same conditions. This did not happen because of the misinterpretation of two State secretaries, which should not have given it at all. Since the only valid authentic explanation is the interpretation given by the National Assembly, we will also support the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation, as I have already announced.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 7 of the Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions. In this way, the legislator established in 2017 an 80 % coverage of the accumulated losses of public health institutions which were incurred by certain institutions at the end of 2016 and which caused them to face severe liquidity problems. Thus, according to the 15 hospitals law, it received EUR 136 million for the purpose of rehabilitation, and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of the budget became in charge of overseeing the purposeful use of the rehabilitation funds. However, the intervention law did not provide for a cut-off date to be taken into account by hospitals when determining for which unpaid obligations and loans the use of remedial funds is intended. As a result, certain problems have arisen in the exercise of supervision, which are the responsibility of the ministries, namely the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, and this date has been set subsequently. As a result, last year, the budgetary inspectors found that five hospitals receiving remedial funds had to return part of them, as they also paid accounts with a later maturity date from a later cut date. The proposer of the authentic interpretations under consideration today wishes to make it clear by way of an explanation what is considered to be the intentional use of funds in terms of the time component, while taking into account the same conditions for all beneficiaries of the remedial measures. An unclear article of the intervention law would be interpreted as meaning that, I quote, “as the earmarked relief funds take into account the payments of the outstanding public service obligations from the date of the acquisition of the single transfer appropriations to cover the expenditure over past years’ expenditure until their consumption is limited.” In the LMŠ Group, we welcome the purpose of the intervention law and we have no doubt that the cut-off date has been set by the ministries in good faith. However, the question arises whether we will allow the intervention law, the purpose of which was to solve the problem of liquidity problems in hospitals, to now cause these problems. In addition, in any event, the State will be forced to resolve the potentially deteriorating situation in these hospitals as soon as possible. In all of this, the estimated amount of reimbursement is very small compared to the amount of resources required for the operation of the entire healthcare system. For this reason, we will support the proposal of an authentic explanation in the Group of the Letters of Marjan Šarc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Intervention Measures to Ensure the Financial Stability of Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, has been adopted by Members and Members, as we have already heard several times today, in the previous mandate on the proposal of the then government. The main objective of the law was the financial rehabilitation of public hospitals. Hospitals which have shown excess expenditure on income from previous years have been entitled under the Act to receive funds intended to cover the surplus of expenditure on income. What should be the interpretation of Article 7 of the Law, which refers to the purposeful use of these funds, be decided today or tomorrow. In the parliamentary procedure, the applicants submitted a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 7 of the said Act and, as the proposed interpretation of that law, quote: "In the opinion of the applicants, the correct interpretation is that the intentional use of funds means the payment of outstanding public service obligations from the date of the acquisition of the single transfer appropriations to cover the expenditure over past years' expenditure until their consumption is limited." The applicants state that the current explanation of Article 7 in the text of the Act does not refer to time constraints and that the intervention law does not provide for a cut-off date to be taken into account by hospitals receiving financial resources. Although the Government opposes this authentic interpretation, which we will decide on, we have the same opinion in the Group of Social Democrats as the proponents that, due to conflicting interpretations and ambiguities, it is imperative that we give the legislative body and clearly define what is considered to be a deliberate use of funds and when these funds must also be spent. The Group of Social Democrats believes that the financial resources for the rehabilitation of public hospitals are spent on purpose and in accordance with the law from the date of the acquisition of these funds until their use, which is not limited in time. The proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 7 of the Law on Intervention Measures in order to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, will be adopted unanimously in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation and on the text of an authentic explanation. Only these three panellists remain on the list, so Janja Slug has the word. Get Jože Lenart ready and the last Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go, Mrs. Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u192	Thank you very much. It is very interesting to listen to Madam Secretary of State, as she persistently repeats the same mantra, for which we have already found on the Parliamentary Committee on Health that, of course, it does not. And when the secretary of state says that in fact it is necessary to explain, as she said, because of different views, but we have no different views in the National Assembly. Nor did the hospitals that came to the Parliamentary Health Committee have different views, nor did the Association of Public Health Institutions have different views. They have different views only at the Ministry of Health and at the Ministry of Finance. That's it. And that is why we are now preparing this authentic explanation and accepting it. Evidence that they had different views was already put forward today when a colleague, as a representative of the parliamentary group, had already stated what the first explanation was, the first letter, which was sent to all hospitals immediately after the adoption of the intervention law as a guide for the use of funds. This letter then changed several times thereafter, not just this letter. Even when it was set backwards, i.e. after two years, not after one month or 14 days, after two years, this cut-off date was set, and as the representatives of the hospitals on the board said, it was not very much in mind, but the hospital called for calculations on a given cut-off date, as if someone wanted to know in advance – Aha, if we set this cut-off date, this hospital will be returning the funds, and this hospital will be returning the funds; if we set a second cut-off date, and this one will be the one. So it happened that the cut date changed three times, and then it covered this third option. There is also evidence of this in the material we received directly from the Ministry. This is the work that took place at the Ministry, which states: “The reasons for changing the position of the Ministry of Health, which initially considered the use of funds to be time-consuming.” I will read again because it so clearly states: “The reasons for changing the position of the Ministry of Health, which initially considered the use of funds to be timeless.” The National Assembly also initially felt that way, and the National Assembly still felt that way. This is also the purpose for which this intervention law was adopted by the National Assembly as a legislator. Inadmissible, I find it unacceptable that someone else, on behalf of the legislator, has an obligation or the right to interpret this law backwards. And this right has been taken by the Ministry of Health, this right has been taken by the Ministry of Finance, and this right has also been taken by the Office of the Government of Law. As for the position of the Government, Madam Secretary of State, you and I know very well that the Government accepts what the Ministry of State proposes and follows the opinion of the Ministry of State. The explanation of the government's position is a little funny here. You even wrote here: “After repeated coordination, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance adopted a common position.” That's a confirmation of what I said before. Why did we decide to go to SMC? Because this is the story, the budget inspection has, of course, done control of the use of these funds. Prior to this, no internal checks have been carried out at individual hospitals that have not detected irregularities. Then she went into control, as has been said, a budget inspection, which found somewhere in the middle of the way that perhaps she did not understand exactly what she wanted to do with this article, and subsequently asked the Ministry for an opinion. The ministries gave this opinion, as they say, before it was repeatedly coordinated and amended, which, of course, results in hospitals where the budgetary inspection was carried out before this instruction was issued, being judged differently from those which were reviewed after this instruction was issued. This is, we have already heard today, Slovenia Gradec, Trbovlje, Gynaecology Kranj and General Hospital Celje. Here, of course, we will exempt oncology, which I listened to on the radio the last time, how the director stated that they did not really need this money at the time, but they took it back and then returned it in the same amount. For example, the situation at Izola General Hospital, which was one of those reviewed prior to this instruction, is interesting. Why is it interesting? Since Izola received EUR 12.3 million in proportion as well as all the remaining hospitals; but if this hospital also received a new interpretation following this new directive, Izola should also return, say and write, EUR 2.2 million. You should have. Now I'm really asking you if you're kidding, is that right?Oh, my God! Do you think that's right? Do you really still feel that this authentic explanation is not necessary? I'll read again what the law was about at the time, what these funds were for. The funds received under the intervention law may be used for the outstanding public service obligations, regardless of when or when they are due, and for the payment of loans. Certainly, however, — and hospitals have not done so — they must not be used for obligations arising from market activities, for obligations that have not yet fallen and for wages. And we need to be clear here. Hospitals have not used these funds for those purposes for which they should not be used. They're not. However, they were used a few days after the date set by the Ministry after two years. And more importantly, the government rejected complaints from hospitals last month. And you know what happened? The following day after the Government rejected these complaints, the hospitals received an invoice dated November 2019, after which the money must be returned. So in February they received an account dated November 2019. Someone else should say there's no need for an authentic explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Let's get Dr. Jones ready. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. This subject is very difficult to understand for a simple person. It's for us, for the ministries that are doing this, not just for those who are watching us on screens today. I am pleased that Dr. Trček had previously presented the position of the Left slightly differently, although he also presented little philosophical stuff. I'd like to introduce myself quite simply. I want to say that none of us here today need to have a bad conscience because we are proposing today. If we look at pure legislation, it is the full legitimacy of the Ministry to stand behind this law. The problem is that this marriage is flawed. Those who know the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination may have a slightly different view. I, who know this, have found that this law has quite a flaw, and there have been such strange interpretations and unequal or different treatments. The Financial Transaction Act, which applies to companies – when an undertaking gets in trouble and decides to make a forced settlement, which is also supposed to be something similar, although there are only intervention funds here because there is a country back there, it is clear that on a given day, these debts are stopped and those debts are then dealt with as to how they will be settled; and you must not touch them. Here the situation is slightly different, and that is why hospitals have also turned – but it does seem that only the four who then carried out the wrong thing – to the Ministry of Health as directed. And they also decided, practically, at the first stage together, to settle themselves against their obligations. This is said to have been settled as long as these intervention funds had not arrived and it took almost one year, and the hospitals from liquid sources have settled according to an old obligation. Why? To avoid late payment. This is said to have been quite economical. And when I realized that, I told myself we had to stand here to solve this thing. And the proposaler Jani Möderndorfer, of course with his experience, then came with this proposal of an authentic explanation. I think it is also perfectly legitimate that we then resolve this lack of legislation in such a way, that is to say that the National Assembly has the right to explain, in accordance with this, that no additional economic damage is done if I so express it. I don't see any problem here. In practice it was even so that the Oncology Institute, which showed on that cut-off day was 31. 12. By the time the funds arrived, the outstanding liabilities or that the expenditure had been higher than the revenue, he had already settled the matter in an excellent way and had not needed them and returned them. If we want to understand this practically, this is one practice; and then this legislation actually denies a life or something that is actually happening. And that's why we came up with an authentic explanation to resolve this matter. My opinion, however, is that we must certainly complement this law on intervention measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, in these areas, which we have now seen to be causing us problems. This is the task of this assembly to put an end to it so that such things can no longer happen next time. However, we must, of course, follow this Financial Action Act and adjust it, in accordance with these public health institutions, to have a tail and head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Because I didn't want to hit the drama bow before, I left something for myself to discuss. These public health institutions, in the popular language of hospitals, are not like any major country, already comparable to Croatia – 50, 60. They're a manageable number in a bit over 20. Some of them had problems, they were negative, they were not specific in human language. I have big ears, what I was paying attention to when I led the session, when one of the principals somehow said, of course, that they were this minus squawking, as is usually the case with us – at the expense of the weakest, at the expense of the employees. Many excesses, especially what we refer to as the human language of nurses, have not been paid, and it seems to me that this is also something that we should seriously reconsider. At the previous point on recruitment, Member Mahnic read what professional soldiers want. Anyone else, if not absent — I feel sorry for him at the time of his death in the family — would read what doctors want. Someone else would have read something third. Anyone would step out of the payment system. I personally think, in Levica, we think we'd need five payment classes. Personally, I think the three of us would be just enough. Maybe for some of the highest functions and even for some of the most responsible ones, if you want to go to the general staff and the operating room, maybe five pay grades. I don't feel like we've learned anything from this problem of our hospitals. It also seems to me that it is high time, especially since, in the younger generations in this area, the whole world is becoming a market for respect for these people. We probably also need to ask ourselves when to carry out some positive discrimination. When some professions are so difficult, so valuable, so important that we reward them properly through the bears, and we also acknowledge this importance and responsibility. That's what I was gonna say. However, if we learned from this, we have obviously learned that in the following intervention laws we will have to write a specific date; that no one will then have any cross-sectional or other flashes, because in four hospitals with all the other not to finish the sentence, you know what I have at the end of the language, let the management deal with it now. [[…]] Then you will fall on each other from the right political quotas, and then we have some fines. And speaking of which, I'm old enough to know that you actually meet people when you divorce. Not only in marriage, but also in other matters. And I'm a little afraid that by the end of this term, you'll be working out with each other, especially the LMŠ. I'm surprised now that someone hasn't come forward, that it's also the Left's fault, because it's all her fault. It seems to me that this is also a small part of what I call Slovenian Catholicism, and let the believers forgive me that we in this society are obsessed with some form of injustice. Our task is to understand why we are in the bull, as we say in Maribor, and within our competence to seek solutions. And in the last five years and seven months, I've seen less of this in this building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will get the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. Representative of the Government, would you like a word? No, no, no. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad we're discussing the same thing. But what's most important about the whole matter, but for me, is just one thing, it can't be a message, especially a message, that now in the National Assembly we're going to interpret every single thing with the very interpretations of the law itself, but also a message that the executive branch of power just can't do what it imagines, and just like it explains something; but that we have two separate branches of government or three separate branches of government and control each other. We have been several times before the kind of test that the Ministry of Finance simply intervened, although the law was passed, with some opinions and explanations. These things must simply end in this country. If he does not understand the law, if he does not want to understand it, or if he is simply convinced that things are wrong; in principle, he has an option in genesis, which is that as an executive branch of government comes to explain and propose certain changes because he has come to the conclusion in his work that certain things simply cannot be done. And remember that this law has not been proposed by Members, this is not a assassination of Members, this law has been proposed by the Government, and we Members have considered and adopted it. Then the executive branch of power will explain itself. You know, it's sad, too, look, today we're dealing with this thing, today the secretary of state is sitting here alone, and even the story is being cooked by a budget inspection; and the Ministry of Finance is not here. That's the saddest answer. And then, of course, we're all looking at the secretary of state how she's going to do it, but in fact, she came many years after this law was passed; and now she has to carry this burden in this room. Of course, the second message is very clear. Indeed, I agree with my colleague Trčko, yes, perhaps it would be right to write down the cut date, but nevertheless – the intervention law and the millions that have been given; or did anyone think that this law would apply for a hundred years. It can't; when money is exhausted, it's exhausted, it's not a joke, we have to come up with a new law, with a new solution, with a new proposal. That is why this excuse for budgetary inspection is because for my terms it is the main culprit and the main responsible who intervened because he even boasted of what he did. Can you imagine?Oh, my God! He boasted that he had managed to take a million 800 years back and could even save the budget. At the same time, they say out loud, be very careful, they say: If this is true, they are missing, but return them with another measure. Who's crazy now?Oh, my God! However, they did not say that the patients would be lost because of this; because they are in loss and because they are in recovery, they are responsible directors; and they have all the basis to replace them at the moment. And then the new director comes in and gives them back a million 800 because the bills have to be paid; because in this country there is something free, but it's all paid. And the answer is in the palm of your hand. And if anything, I'm glad that in at least one case the National Assembly was able to react and explain what he meant when he adopted this law, because he was called to do so and because he was the only one in this country explaining the laws. Thank you for all your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u199	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly? I take it it's an interest. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposer Jani Möderndorfer and the representative of the Government, please sign up by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will be given the word as the last, which will be followed by a representative of the Government and then a representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up! Thank you very much. There's only one registered. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u200	I'll be very brief. I haven't been able to replicate business, nor is it intended to replicate Jani, but I've been here many times, and you've all been looking at me badly. Article 110 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia applies to any government – any government is responsible to the National Assembly. Pika. I hope that we have learned from this story, given that the candidate for a mandate still swears in a new iteration to the Constitution, that this article of the Constitution will also be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u201	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. We will decide on the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation and on the text of an authentic interpretation, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting tomorrow, 5 March 2020, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item, this is on the proposal for a resolution on the National Environment Protection Programme for the period 2020-2030. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Mark Mavere. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. Well, hello to you in my name! Maybe for starters, because this is one of my last opportunities in this system to talk to you, perhaps from a personal point of view. For those of you who do not know me, I have spent a good 14 years abroad — in the United States, Great Britain and Belgium; and I have returned to Slovenia for two reasons. It was love for my partner and also love for the country and nature, so I gladly returned home. Slovenia is always my home, I believe the journey will take me abroad again, but what we have here, at home, this nature is truly something amazing. If I also draw a parallel with love, there may sometimes be some things we do not appreciate or appreciate when we lose them. Today you have before you the motion for a resolution on the National Environment Programme for the period 2020-2030. This is a very important strategic document, third in the field of environmental protection in Slovenia, which is, of course, prepared in accordance with the Environmental Protection Act, the Nature Conservation Act, the Water Act and, of course, in compliance with international conventions in these areas. Its basic starting point is that the preserved nature and quality environment are of value to Slovenian societies and at the same time the essence of our development. As we are aware, the importance of environmental protection is growing, especially the conservation of biodiversity and natural value, quality air, water and soil, while managing environmental risks. In the light of climate change, of course, this burden will increase over the years. The National Environmental Protection Programme 2020-2030 sets out long-term policies, objectives, tasks and measures for environmental protection; including guidelines, objectives, objectives and measures for the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of natural values and the national water management policy. The programme therefore sets out in particular guidelines for the planning and implementation of these policies and other sources or all activities carried out in or affecting the environment. In Slovenia, after the last report on the environment in the Republic of Slovenia from 2017, we can talk about the good condition of most environmental elements. Above all, the quality of water and air has improved in recent decades, and waste is being treated better. Of course, problems arise and you will have to continue to be solved. We are also aware of the importance of maintaining biodiversity and natural values. It also improved the knowledge and understanding of the links between environmental pressures and the state of the environment itself. Slovenia's future environmental challenges related to the traditional concept of environmental protection are mainly over-polluted areas due to past activities, annual short-term deterioration in air quality, concern for biodiversity conservation and natural values, and the management and adaptation of climate change already mentioned. The future environmental challenge of Slovenia, in particular, is the transition from a separate way of addressing environmental challenges in a systematic way, but this can be done mainly when recognizing the interconnection of environmental protection with all social and economic processes. If we learn to implement environmental protection in a systematic way, this focus on the ecosystem development model and sustainable production and consumption will also take place on a natural or socially friendly path. These challenges are addressed by the content of the National Environmental Protection Programme for the period 2020-2030 in a way that combines these objectives, orientations and measures into three content sets, namely natural capital, low-carbon and resource-efficient societies and environmental risks. The red thread of this programme is the call for more effective integration of environmental protection objectives into the policy and conduct of all sectors of society, as this will be crucial to achieving these objectives of the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Magi. Andrey Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u204	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 15th session. 2. 2020 as a parent working body considered the draft resolution on the National Environmental Protection Programme 2020-2030 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In the opening presentation, the representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space, like today, presented the main points of the resolution under consideration. The representative of the Council of State expressed his support for the motion for a resolution and expected that funds for the implementation of the planned measures would actually be provided in the annual state budgets. The debate by the Nova Slovenija Group pointed out that the motion for a resolution was insufficiently concrete; in this regard, the area of placement of facilities in a place where they considered it necessary to amend legislation and simplify procedures. In particular, the potential for geothermal energy use has been highlighted. The biggest problem, according to New Slovenia, is the long-standing bureaucratic process of putting renewable energy facilities into space, so they have proposed an undertaking to improve measures that will facilitate the placement of such facilities into space. The opinion that the motion for a resolution contains too many theories and general guidelines and too few concrete measures was also highlighted in the SDS Group. In particular, they highlighted the lack of funding for watercourses and waterfronts, the slow progress in waste incineration or incineration, the unequal position of individual areas in the acquisition of subsidies for small combustion plants and too low funding for water supply subsidies. The Left Group believes that the motion for a resolution has well-established starting points and rightly points out that our way of management will have to be thoroughly reformulated. They also define the biggest problem of pollution in us; and these are sectors that use fossil fuels. They noted that the motion for a resolution to clarify the measures was attached to the adoption of other documents and therefore proposed to supplement the resolution with concrete measures and a timetable for their implementation. The SD, SMC and SAB also touched on individual chapters of the motion for a resolution in their debates and highlighted, inter alia, the issue of the placement of strategic infrastructure facilities in space, incineration and waste disposal, and the related placement of waste incinerators in space, as well as the problem of the rehabilitation of degraded areas, such as Zasavje. However, they expressed their support for the motion for a resolution and stressed that this document should be understood as a cover document defining certain general guidelines and objectives, on the basis of which other documents will be adopted below, which will define guidelines and objectives more specifically. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments to Chapters 3, 5, 6, 11 and 12 and then voted on all the chapters of the motion for a resolution together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u205	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We are living in a time of climate crisis as it has never been. Four years ago, a Paris climate agreement was finally adopted. Its aim is to prevent the worst effects of climate change. The European Union and it have committed ourselves to carbon neutrality by 2050. Fine, but the key actions we're going to take by 2030 will be crucial. If we do not radically reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, the effects of feedback loops will become uncontrollable and climate breaking will occur. And from here on, we will not be assisted by the resolution on the national environmental programme, not the NEPN, nor by the long-term climate strategy of Slovenia until 2050. The fact is that Slovenian policy is constantly ignoring the seriousness of climate change. We now have before us the motion for a resolution on the National Environment Programme for the period 2020-2030. It sounds good, but what if the resolution is a document full of green words, which only regularly goes further, except perhaps in the promising introduction. The motion for a resolution contains long-term objectives, guidelines and tasks in the field of environmental protection, nature conservation and water management and deals comprehensively with all parts of the environment. Guidelines, objectives, tasks and actions of environmental stakeholders are proposed. Unfortunately, all of this is very merciless and remains more than at the abstract level. There is a lot of environmental phrasing, but there are few specific targets. More concrete measures will be taken and implementation will be measured more than not by indicators such as the act adopted, the number of events carried out and the like; not by concrete reductions in pollution or greenhouse gas emissions. In spite of the promising introduction, the resolution cannot go beyond the liberal ideology of the market, which is the origin and generator of the environmental crisis. Even so, they are objectives without real concreteness; for example, they aim to preserve biodiversity and protect natural values. A favourable situation will be maintained here. What this favorable condition means or how it is measured is not explicitly written anywhere. The treatment of wild species taken from nature will be monitored and improved. How, which, where, is not defined anywhere; and so on. It is similar with the aim of improving soil quality or the aim of improving air quality, where solid PM10 particles and ozone are not included in the air improvement objectives at all, even though we know how serious we have problems with air pollution in Anhove, Celje, Ljubljana, Maribor. The part that speaks of greenhouse gas reductions is probably the best indicator of the impotentness of this resolution. The declared objective is to: “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in line with international commitments.” All we know is that the aim of the Paris Agreement is to halt global temperature growth below 1.5 degrees Celsius. As long as we reduce releases, it's transferred to other documents. There are no emission reduction targets, nothing, although the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is crucial for the success or failure of climate action over the next decade. In action and adaptation to climate change, the picture is the same – there is no objective as such. There is nothing better than recovery in the past of over-polluted environments, including incentives for the development of innovative methods for the recovery of contaminated areas. What does that mean? By allocating millions of subsidies to private companies to search for so-called innovative methods for the remediation of contaminated areas?Oh, my God! That our fight against the environmental crisis will be based on subsidisation of private capital and guarantees that will allow this capital to be paid more cheaply for green projects in financial markets; and that the public sector will take on financial risk?Oh, my God! Will the costs of imported private sector projects, as in the context of the banking crisis, be settled again by citizens in cases of guarantee cancellation? We're not going to support the document because of everything that's been said in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, chairman. The resolution defines the environmental vision of Slovenia. Maintained nature and a healthy environment in and outside Slovenia provide a quality life for present and future generations. The new Slovenia has proposed an amendment on the Committee, so the resolution now clearly states that we will strive for the equivalent use of all appropriate renewable energy sources, which is a key condition for achieving the objectives of carbon neutrality by 2050. In doing so, we pay particular attention to the potential of geothermal energy, which is a completely overlooked source of renewable energy and represents a major development potential for Pomurje and the entire eastern part of our country. The biggest problem is the long-term bureaucratic procedures for placing facilities for the production of renewable energy sources into space. We have therefore entered into a commitment among the objectives of the resolution with the amendment to improve measures to facilitate the placement of such facilities into space. Our amendment was unanimously adopted on the Committee, so thank you to all Members and representatives of the Ministry of Support. In Slovenia, Natura 2000 areas account for more than 37% of our country's total surface area. It is 355 areas per 7,000 681 square kilometres of territory of Slovenia. The problem is not that such a large part of our country's territory is protected and preserves biodiversity and diversity. The problem is that this is only protected, that everything is restricted and forbidden and nothing else. We do not have a strategy for managing these areas, which is a major problem. If one of the farmers wants to do something in a protected area, he runs into bureaucratic obstacles and can fight them for several years. Those working in protective areas have problems with fertilization, the use of plant protection products and the like. These protected areas are very difficult to live with. Many people are ill - willed because of this and avoid these areas and do not dominate them. There is no development, young people are moving out, farming is leaving because nothing can be done, so in Novi Slovenija we are proposing once again that the competent ministry should consider how farmers should be covered by the difference between reduced crop and farming restrictions, and how to better balance the protection of biodiversity and nature on the one hand with development on the other. The resolution also exposes the restrictions on construction on agricultural areas, which, of course, does not present a problem for us. The problem is that construction is not possible, for example, instead of old houses that are already demolishing and corrupting the settlement. If someone goes into building a house in an old building area, a document is quickly found that protects the building, which must be preserved from a cultural point of view. For these reasons, many people prefer to build on meadows or agricultural land, as this is still much easier and faster than if they decided to rebuild a culturally protected facility. Slovenia does not have a facility for thermal treatment of waste, nor does it have a strategy for the construction of waste. We have every opportunity to establish this, not with the technology of third countries or developing countries, but with the best technology that is possible today and with the release will not burden the surrounding population or be minimal. Construction of the waste thermal treatment facility is essential if we are to be self-sufficient in the field of waste as a country. In New Slovenia, we would like to see the Resolution on the National Environmental Protection Programme 2020-2030 more concrete. There are also warnings from NGOs that the resolution does not comply with sectoral legislation or the Nature Conservation Act. In New Slovenia, we believe that the biggest problem in this country is that there is a multitude of resolutions, operational plans, studies that do not apply in practice and are often intended for themselves. Operations of an operational nature, however, are absent or under-funded; example: land exchange in the Celje Cauldron, removal of foreign and invasive plants. In the resolution, too much emphasis is placed on limiting the various activities; however, they are almost entirely hampering measures in the field of research and development. In New Slovenia, we would like the resolution to make a substantial and concrete contribution to the preservation of nature; it must also allow for sonar economic development.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, Members and Representatives of the Government! Today we are discussing the Resolution on the National Environmental Protection Programme for the period 2020-2030. We have already entered strongly in 2020. The awareness that environmental protection is effective only through cross-sectoral cooperation, the involvement of different public – scientific, professional and civil society – is greater than ever. For the people of Slovenia, the nature and quality of the environment in which we live are preserved. Slovenia has adopted the highest environmental standards for nature conservation as part of the European Union's core group. Thus, we have the highest share of the Natura 2000 area in Europe, which is 37%; this is not the only protection regime. Climate change affects the state of the environment. Changes in the amount and duration of precipitation affect the type and extent of vegetation, soil coverage. Reproduction of pests, such as the basement, affects the state of forests. Faster precipitation leaks due to holosecs and modified vegetation, as well as the spread of asphaltic surfaces and settlements, increase the extreme peaks of our watercourse flows; at the same time, the local area is affected by rising temperatures and accelerated evaporation. The greenhouse gas emissions are all the more intense. The transition to a low-carbon society supported by the European Union is therefore a necessity. In this light, we must take advantage of all the opportunities it offers. More than EUR 1000 billion of European resources will ensure the transformation of the economy, and in Slovenia we must not overlook the European programme for the transformation of coal regions, which is particularly important for Slovenia. It is therefore very important for companies to be able to prepare appropriate projects for the restructuring of the regions and the acquisition and use of European funds for all phases of projects. This will ensure an environmentally, economically and socially sustainable and equitable transition to a carbon-free society while ensuring coherent regional development. Part of this transition is the prudent use of natural resources. Effective use of resources is therefore crucial – implementation of energy efficiency measures in households, especially in the area of heating sanitation and heating facilities. Slovenia has already implemented and encouraged these measures. Opportunities are also in the industry by modernising production processes; however, the greatest opportunity is to decarbonise transport. After decades of neglect, Slovenia has been speeding up and upgrading railway infrastructure. This year will restore the railway line between Šentilje, Maribor, Prague, Celje and the Wall Bridge. The reconstruction of the Karavanka tunnel and the mountain line is being carried out. The construction of the geostrategic infrastructure project, the second track and the third development axis, which will consolidate the economy of Slovenia and contribute effectively to the transition of transit transport from road to train. On the highway ring around Ljubljana, it will reduce the creation of the third transport lane, which will promote group forms of transport. With 1. 7. Free public inter-city passenger transport will be enabled for more than 600,000 pensioners, which will further encourage the use of environmentally friendly modes of transport. Meanwhile, more than a thousand kilometres of new cycling routes provide alternative means of transport through cities and between places. The resolution is the first and true step towards addressing these challenges. That is why the members of the SAB party will support it. It's up to the incoming government to continue with the good work. The decarbonisation of the company will be linked to the placement of new infrastructure facilities in the space. It will therefore be necessary to find a way to accommodate new hydropower plants, thermal treatment facilities, municipal mud, river mud, and also to rehabilitate degraded areas. A particular challenge will be to place new facilities for the production of electricity into space, as two-thirds of production capacity will have to be replaced over the next 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In front of us is another type of environmental document, which has been multiplying lately; of course all in the care of preserving the environment. But when you look out the window and in the middle of the season, in which you should fight snowstorms, plondro and watch your children enjoy the winter joys, watch the exchange of sun, surfaces, torrents, listen to thunders and already drive away the first mosquitoes and flies, think about how many legal acts and such and other commitments we will have to accept so that something actually changes for the better. You monitor the duality of people who, on the one hand, cry out for protection of the environment, stop smoking coal and drive cars on fossil fuels; on the other hand, do not defend the latest modern technologies, and conveniently forget that they have not grown up on a biotree, in an environmentally sound environment and have not been brought into their hands by storks. At the same time, they block the power plants that produce electricity from renewable energy sources and require more electricity from these same energy sources. Although we are always skeptical in the Desus Group at the time of the adoption of the various resolutions. In most cases it is a list of blind desires, but in many areas only the letter on paper remains. Still, we could call them girl acts. We can't avoid them. This is also what law requires of us, which is just what we Members are adopting. Another environmental document cannot harm us if we do not mass print this document, but it is possible that this document, which will be the basis for further environmental action, will lead to a shift in the heads of people who still question the reality of global warming. Members of the Desus Group will support a motion for a resolution prepared on the basis of various environmental legislation, identifying the three most important environmental pillars – the protection, conservation and improvement of natural capital, a low-carbon society that effectively manages resources, and the environmental risks of which the programme exposes, inter alia, degraded areas, noise, biological safety, chemical management, the burden of the environment with an electromagnetic field, light pollution and adaptation to climate change. Among the environmental challenges associated with the traditional concept of environmental protection, we need to highlight annual short-term deterioration in air quality in certain areas, waste management and biodiversity conservation. All of this will not go without the financial and human resources provided to implement the measures envisaged. Understanding the interconnectivity of the environment with social and economic processes and coordinating the actions of all sectors will be essential. Above all, we will all have to change the food, mobility, energy and living systems together. Our actions will determine our future. Nature doesn't care whether we consider it or not. She will develop and claim what belongs to her — with or without us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u214	Nice greeting to all those who are present! The resolution before us is completely populist. The programme is very weak in cities, only objectives are listed, but there are no concrete measures or are not regulated after years. I can tell that all this is more than in the air. The fact is that we have a very big problem with pollution and that a fundamental change in all areas will therefore be necessary as soon as possible. If everyone had contributed at least a fraction, it would have been much easier to achieve the goal. If we look at the current situation, Slovenia is one of the most air-polluted countries of the European Union with respect to PM10 particles and benzo-aprene pollution. But we know these particles are cancerous. The problem is mainly the use of quality wood fuels, burning in outdated boilers and, of course, transport. The State must provide additional financial incentives for households, small businesses and so on through the Eco Fund to purchase heat pumps or boilers at Biomasso for the purchase of hybrid and electric cars. At the same time, of course, let them know that there are financial benefits. The use of fossil fuels affecting the increase in greenhouse gas emissions is also exaggerated. The maximum share is a carbon footprint of 60 %. Greater importance must be given to sustainable mobility to reduce traffic and its harmful effects, while encouraging people to pursue a healthier way of life. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the prohibition and restriction of all so-called dangerous plastics marked PET, PVC, PS and so on. This is absolutely necessary. I am interested in why Slovenia does not have a system like that of Croatia or, for example, Germany, with which we like to compare ourselves; I am talking about the introduction of a bail for repackaging. I didn't see that in the resolution either. Croatia and Germany have this one-off arrangement. Return packaging ensures almost a hundred percent recycling of waste. And don't tell me that's not possible again. Where were we a while ago?Oh, my God! Why didn't you do it then, like the other countries we like to compare ourselves to? Because of the various plastic products that replaced glass packagings, glassware failed. Of course, no one at the time thought about the workers who had lost their jobs. Those who invented the irreversible packaging did not think about the garbage. A comprehensive overhaul of the waste management system would be necessary, as unfortunately we do not have a waste disposal for about 48%. Therefore, a new, modern environment and a friendly incinerator must be built as soon as possible. The Austrians handled the problem well with the Vienna incinerator, which has the capacity to process about 300 tonnes of waste. Of course, it also heats up almost the whole of Vienna. As we visited the Vienna incinerator, where we went with the committee, I suggested that the country issue a call for municipalities wishing to have incinerators. Of course, a number of benefits, particularly financial ones, should be offered to municipalities that would accept incinerators. And here's the problem, because the invitation to tender was nothing. And we're almost literally drowning in garbage and mud. With us, however, all matters are hampered either by Arso or by other environmental NGOs. Slovenians are not aware of their wealth, the country covers about 60% of the forest surface, we have drinking water, rich plant and animal world and could still list. It is vital that we educate and inform people of future generations, not just ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Bojan Podkrodšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u216	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the motion for a resolution on the National Environmental Protection Programme for the period 2020-2030. The future environmental challenges of Slovenia are related to the traditional designation of environmental protection, mainly over-polluted areas due to the past, deterioration of air quality, waste management, concern for the conservation of natural values and the management and adaptation of climate change. The Ministry has prepared this strategic document, which, given that we are a poor traveller in 2020, and the very unstable foundations of the four segments: that we have not been able to care for municipal mud in the past period; that we have not been able to handle waste packaging in the present period; that we have reached the water protection area in Ljubljana in the present period with this canal in the largest city, in Ljubljana, and that we are destroying the best water. The fourth segment is that, as a country, we do not know or find a solution to enter the area in which the municipality will be incinerated; but, above all, we have problems as a country, and in particular, our citizens have problems, as they want to build a facility for renewable resources. In Slovenia, we have many strategic documents, including those before us. Of course, strategic documents and resolutions are a lot of money, and the solution is very little. Since we have a very important period ahead of us in the field of the environment, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will not oppose this resolution, which is proposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u218	Dear Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, here you are! The resolution on the National Environmental Protection Programme is a national strategic document setting out the challenges and guidelines of current and future environmental policies that will preserve natural and cultural diversity and create strategic guidelines to curb climate change, which pose a global security threat to the 21st century. The implementation of wider, multi-layered, intertwined measures will contribute to the development of sustainable development and the vision of the future of Slovenia, which, of course, is what we all want in principle. Based on the analysis of previous material documents and programmes, it is noted that the Republic of Slovenia has made progress particularly in the area of biodiversity conservation, soil quality and air quality, which I am very pleased with. However, more attention will have to be paid to the measures by which we will put Slovenia within the framework of universal constraints, in which the planet Earth still retains its restoration capabilities or capabilities. The determination of capacity frameworks is based on the calculation of carbon footprints, which illustrates the amount of greenhouse gas emissions for which people, businesses and organisations are responsible. This is therefore a criterion for impacts on climate change. The growth of the carbon footprint is an indicator of the ratio between the provision of human well-being on one hand and the accelerated use of natural resources on the other. It is an anthropocentric view that puts human well-being or pleasure above nature. This was followed by all development models in the past, whose catastrophic consequences were not only limited to the environment and space, but are good principles of health and quality of living of the local population. That's not what we want anymore. Revitalisation of such degraded areas is part of modern and future development strategies at local and European level and represents one of the key challenges addressed by this resolution. A leap into the thought that man is the one who needs nature and not the nature of man for his own survival is the basis for creating an eco-centric view, the essence of which is that man carries out his own actions or economic and social development models and forms them within environmental sustainability frameworks. At the same time, new development models are an exceptional opportunity to implement innovative technologies and approaches in service activities, industrial production processes and energy production processes, alternative modes of transport, transport and more. We still have a lot of challenges. The effectiveness of the new relationship between man and nature depends in particular on the ability of man to carry out his way of life, his desires, needs and ambitions environmentally sustainable, and in particular in the knowledge that nature is an invaluable good for the protection of which all of us are responsible now and here. The new way of understanding the relationship between man and nature is followed by all international material documents and programmes, as well as the proposed resolution, which we will support in the List of Marjan Šarca, because we are aware of the beauty and nature of our beautiful homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u220	All in attendance, all in attendance! Our planet has very clear limits to environmental sustainability. However, the burden of these is increasing each year because of the poor treatment of its natural resources and with increasing extreme climate change. Humanity is increasingly experiencing global warming. The atmosphere is heating up, the glaciers are melting, sea levels are rising, greenhouse gas emissions are rising, and the air that we and our children are breathing is becoming more and more polluted. We are also constantly facing floods, droughts, and disasters. Each year, thousands more plant and animal species disappear each year. In doing so, Slovenia is no exception. Moreover, because of its position and compared to other areas, it is warming up twice as fast as the world average, so the level of urgency for climate adaptation and mitigation is even greater. The cause of warming is clear — mankind is the one who changes the composition of the atmosphere and the properties of the surface to the extent that the energy balance on the surface of the earth has changed. Warming the atmosphere is therefore a major threat that requires radical changes in the way we live and how we supply energy and goods. We are working for a progressive and socially fair climate policy. At the heart of this and our priorities, we put just environmental protection, the fight against climate change and a fair transition to a low-carbon society. Our vision for the future is a green and development-oriented policy that offers more than a response to climate change and the challenge of adapting to the consequences of global warming. Environmental protection and green development must become the basic framework for all our country's policies, as this is the only way to achieve social and environmental self-recovery. The transition to a sustainablely organised society is, in our opinion, a key element of an advanced climate policy that requires horizontal movement, adaptation and action in all areas – energy, agriculture, labour mobility and production – in order to achieve greater energy and material efficiency. Climate conditions do not have ideology and thus must not be subordinated to political interests, so it is crucial that we pour clean wine and recognize and take into account the limitations of our planet in solving the climate crisis and, in the light of these, we also act more responsibly with concrete measures. At the initiative of the Social Democrats Group last week, a resolution on the declaration of exceptional climate and environmental conditions in Slovenia was tabled together with other parliamentary groups in the legislative process. Both documents, the National Environmental Protection Programme for the period 2020-2030 and the resolution mentioned above, must form the basis for further action and reconciliation of all our country's policies. Climate change, limited natural resources and unequal access to key living and economic goods are our greatest common challenge, requiring a shift in global awareness that the Earth is the only planet we have and is a priority; and above all, the common task of the whole society. Only in this way will we be able to reverse the trend of global warming and allow at least the same conditions and opportunities as we have today for future generations. The Social Democrats Group welcomes the proposal for a national programme as an important strategic document containing long-term orientations, objectives, objectives and actions in the field of environmental protection and biodiversity conservation and the protection of natural values. This document also provides guidance and is important in supporting other policies in the field of environmental protection and nature conservation. That is why we will also support him in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u222	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Nice greetings to all those who insist! Unfortunately, the seriousness of environmental concerns has only begun to be realized when the environment itself has warned us; and then young people have followed. Climate change has also shown us teeth. Extreme weather events, which are increasingly common, endanger nature, human life, and economic development. As a result, the principle is our prosperity. That is why environmental protection cannot now be only an agenda for green parties, but must find its place in every policy agenda and policy, i.e. as a set of measures. And that's every day. The climate change we are witnessing today is happening faster than ever. This makes it very difficult for ecosystems and human society to adapt properly and in a timely manner. The fact is that the global consequences of climate change cannot be reduced from today to tomorrow. It is also true that, with our sincere intentions and actions, we can have a major impact on our timely response to the consequences of global warming, in particular by protecting the environment. Finally, we must be aware that the environment is not part of man, but that man is part of the environment. Unfortunately, we have repeatedly witnessed warnings in the adoption of resolutions that it is only a dead letter on paper. Today, when we adopt the Resolution on the National Environmental Protection Programme, this must not be the case. Why? Because we've lost the luxury we call time. Therefore, the criticism that the resolution is too loose and too weak a document requires an answer. We are living in a time of change, that is a fact, and it is right that such a document is broad enough and that it leaves sufficient room for us to respond adequately to these changes and that we can address the full range of challenges that we are witnessing to them. That is why the resolution contains long-term objectives, guidelines and tasks in the field of environmental protection, nature conservation and water management. In the Modern Centre Party, we will support the motion for a resolution, but we also point out that environmental protection is not only a challenge for one ministry, and a coherent action is needed. If we agree to a solo game, unfortunately, we'll be doomed to failure. Protecting the environment therefore does not only mean preserving natural resources; it also means that particular care must be taken to address the challenges of energy, public transport, agriculture and more. This can be achieved through sustainable development, which must be achieved through economic, social and environmental development, by creating conditions and opportunities for us and for all who will succeed us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u223	Thank you very much. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will be held tomorrow, 5 March 2020, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and interrupt the 16th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
