ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 15th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Jani Prednik until 13:00, Mag. Dejan Židan by 1:00 p.m. and Mrs Janja Sluga by 2 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 10. Agenda item — Re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act. At its 9th extraordinary meeting on 24 December 2019, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act amending and supplementing the Tonage Tax Act be re-elected before the announcement. In order to explain the request, I give the floor to the representative of the State Council of Magi. Mark Zidanska. Could I have your attention in the hall, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! With the adoption of the Tonage Tax Act, this B option, which does not have the appropriate fuses installed, creates the conditions under which state aid will be granted to companies other than owners or any ship lost by the Slovenian shipowner from 2008 onwards due to the lack of control over the implementation of the Tonage Tax Act. In addition, the adopted amendment allows the taxpayer to transfer the activities to a new company, the so-called bypass company, without having previously settled the tax liability under the Tonage A Tax Act. By adopting the novel, the Republic of Slovenia will finally lose its shipowner, which will have irreparable consequences for Slovenian shipping and maritime affairs, maritime school, maritime administration, port, navy, maritime police and the entire Primorska region, to which the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself to the Resolution on the Maritime Direction of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me also recall some facts that a certain novelty deleted Article 26 of the Basic Law, says the Tonage A Tax Act, by which the text was added after a public hearing just before the decision on the proposal in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is directly contrary to one of the purposes of the law, this is to promote the development of maritime education. “For shipowners”, it says, “who manage the ship, Article 26 of this Law does not apply”. Thus, they do not need to be provided on average one job for seafarers of cadets or seafarer trainee cadets. Let me remind you of the letter from the headmaster of the Central Maritime School and the Dean of the Faculty of Maritime Affairs – as they also spoke in public, who have taken a stand solely on the side, and I think it is logical that at least, in order to ensure that the credit provided by the law on State aid to shipowners, they would return reciprocally at least by allowing young people to be educated. Otherwise, State aid is granted to the taxpayers. If you have looked at a website that is protected by tax secrecy or secrecy, as it is said, you have two companies that are in the tonage tax system One is Genshipping Corporation, Monrovia, Liberia, whose debt is between €1 million and €10 million, unfortunately because of the secrecy of this we cannot verify, although it is probably not just the debt of the state budget, it can also be contributions, I am just guessing. Lucia Shipping is another company that owes between 300 and 500 000 euros. The purpose of the law was basically to reinvest in new ships. The fact is that in this ten-year history it is essentially a ship sale, all for the benefit of the German owner. Let me also recall that the amendment of this law has been weak for two years in the decision-making process in the National Assembly, also previously on our Commission for Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, where we gave a negative opinion at the time. The case also ran on a regular basis at the time. Well, I have to say, in the third reading, she didn't survive this hall. There's two more information on this. The law states that it has been in force since 1. 1. 2019, it is said to be retroactivity. It is a surprising emergency, even though the law has been enacted or in the process for almost a year. It would probably also be necessary for the Court of Auditors to carry out a comprehensive audit of the operations of the recipients of State aid under this Title. Dear Members and Members! It's an unfinished marriage, to put it mildly, a strange marriage. It smells like corruption. I believe it is to a large extent harmful and we suggest that you reject it in re-decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance as its parent working body, and I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Robert Polnar, to present the opinion of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u4	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 18th meeting on 14 January this year, the Finance Committee considered the request of the Council of State to re-decision the National Assembly on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonage Tax Act, which was adopted by the Government at its 14th session on 19 December last year. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the representative of the State Council drew attention to the key concerns which led the State Council to request that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act. He explained that the adoption of a law without adequate safeguards would create the conditions under which state aid would be received by companies other than the owners of any ship. He highlighted concerns about the retroactivity of the law and the taxpayers' tax debts. He stressed that Article 4 of the Act under consideration was contrary to the objectives of promoting the development of maritime education. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the law represents a state aid scheme and is important for the development and preservation of the maritime sector. She stressed that the Government did not agree with the proposed protections of the State Council, as this would mean an excessive burden on the debtors and supervisory authorities and would limit the free economic initiative of the shipowners. It pointed out that the Tonage Tax Act is a system law which also refers to the status of the Republic of Slovenia as a maritime state. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly explained that the request of the State Council raises issues outside the powers and competences of the Legislative and Legal Service and has therefore not been identified. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee presented their views on the law in question and on the requirements of the Council of State for re-decision. It has been pointed out that despite 23 million State aid in the past 10 years, under the tonnage tax scheme, the number of ships has halved, there has been no investment in education, and that some taxpayers' fleets have also been sold out to pay this tax. The panellists asked what would have been the consequences if the law had not been adopted in the re-decision and what was the actual number of Slovenian shipowners and seafarers. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance provided further clarifications on the issues raised in the debate. In this regard, she stressed in particular that both taxpayers were tax residents of the Republic of Slovenia and that the obligation to recruit trainees would still apply to shipowners. It also stated that, prior to entry into the system of tax on a tonne of possible taxable persons, it is always thoroughly checked. After the discussion, the Committee voted by 7 votes to 8 with respect to the following opinion: “The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act is appropriate.” The Committee did not adopt its opinion because, in accordance with Article 91(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 84 in conjunction with Article 56 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the majority of all members and members of the Committee voted in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you very much. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Natalija Kovač Jereb, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government is proposing to re-decision the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonage Tax Act, which is a state aid scheme granted by the State to maritime transport. With State aid in the form of tonnage tax, Member States of the European Union shall ensure the preservation of the maritime sector and the preservation of maritime knowledge. If Slovenia did not have this law, it would be one of the few countries of the European Union that had the sea but would not have such a tax regime. It is important for Slovenia that its tonnage tax system is competitive, reasonable, transparent and simple. It should also be borne in mind that this tax is State aid and therefore a system which would not have included these restrictive measures of entry and exit would not have been granted by the European Commission. Thus, the main reason is that the Government does not support the inclusion of additional safeguards to make the tonnage tax system unreasonable, opaque and also inconsistent with the purposes and objectives of the law itself, but could also be inconsistent with European Union State aid rules. The proposed safeguards would also allow for easier transitions from the flat-rate system, according to the system where the tax is charged and paid independently of the business result. This would also allow, for example, taxpayers to transfer tax losses from a tax period to a tax period or even to account for profits. This would also allow taxpayers tax planning, which in our view is unacceptable. Once again, I would like to point out that the taxable person who has a place of actual business in the Republic of Slovenia is also a taxable person in the Republic of Slovenia and therefore pays all taxes in Slovenia. Therefore, it does not argue that the recipients of this State aid tax in Slovenia would not pay. At the same time, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia shall exercise control, insurance and recovery of tax obligations between all taxpayers, including those taxable persons in these flat-rate schemes. Nor does it claim that the proposal for a new law changes the existing conditions for shipowners. The shipowner must still meet the condition laid down in Article 26 of the Tonage Act. This is that it must provide a job for seafarers of traineeships. However, this condition does not have to be met only by shipowners for whom the scheme is being extended. Thus, failure to comply with this condition is linked to the nature of the work of operators. Instead, shipowners must meet another condition, namely that at least 51 % of the nationals of the Republic of Slovenia or of the nationals of the other Member States are employed on land or on ships. Thus, ship managers are not shipowners, they do not carry out maritime transport but only perform certain ancillary activities or services. We also want to maintain a more encouraging environment with the proposal for a new law so that it is in line with European rules on state aid in the maritime field. The tax on tonnage is not only a law for a single taxpayer, but it is a system law that also addresses the broader political issue of maintaining the status of Slovenia as a maritime state. The law is a supporting element of the economic and non-economic environment, as it is important to maintain education, training and also to gain the experience of future seafarers in Slovenia. The latter are also key personnel for the performance of the tasks of maritime inspection and supervision of the safety of navigation in the Slovenian Sea and ensuring the safe operation of the Koper port of cargo. Failure to vote on the amendment constitutes a negative signal from Slovenia to the European Union due to non-compliance with the commitments made. From the point of view of the rule of law, the non-admission of the proposal for a new law means that Slovenia will not have its domestic legislation in line with the European Commission's decision. The decision of the European Commission is binding on Slovenia and by the non-admission of the amendment of the law, Slovenia is consciously referring to the granting of aid which could be recognised as unlawful by the European Commission. The government proposes to support the bill and thus ensure that Slovenia's status as a maritime state is maintained and that Slovenian legislation is in line with the European Union's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views, the first to receive Mr Predrag Baković's word to present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u8	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The tax on tonnage is a special form of corporate income tax which taxes shipping companies. It is known by most maritime states and its purpose is to take account of the specifics of ship activity. Its basic principle is to measure and tax, instead of the actual transport of the company, its tonnage or the total carrying capacity of the fleet of ships of a particular maritime company. Such simplified arrangements for shipping companies and shipowners are considered to be State aid granted and such measures also require the consent of the European Commission. Now the law in force is a decade old, and in the meantime market conditions have changed considerably. Slovenia has only one foreign-owned ship company, but Slovenia is and will be a maritime state and the legal framework is the basis on which the industry can develop better and it is also essential to adopt a revised law. The new law will preserve the essential features of the arrangement we have known so far. The law encourages shipowners to maintain or save common capacities and, at the time of sale, reinvest in the purchase of new capacity or the preservation of common tonnage. Such behaviour is tax-encouraged while the reduction of transport capacity is taxed. The basic cornerstone of the regulation is, therefore, that a shipping company is required to invest its profits in the purchase and renovation of ships and the preservation of the fleet. At the time of the adoption of the law, there have been several criticisms mainly in the way of cooperation with all actors, and during the last days there have also been reports of maritime schools that the law does not regulate properly enough training and the functioning of the introduction of seafarers. It is clear from the explanations that this is mainly a misunderstanding due to new concepts in the law, but that they will not substantially change the rules in force, so in our parliamentary group, we will back up the proposal for a tonnage tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u10	Dear Vice-President, Representative of the Government and the Council of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The basic idea of the regulation of the Tonnage Act is to ensure competitive conditions and attract foreign investment in international maritime transport and thus preserve the status of our country and the maritime state. In the legislative process, in the SMC Group, we have always drawn attention to some controversial solutions, and in particular, we wanted clarifications from the proposer, the Ministry of Finance, but we did not get them. Therefore, the decision of the Council of State to vote the procrastination veto and to return the law to Parliament for reconfirmation is not surprising. The Tonage Act allows legal persons operating on ships in international navigation to choose and otherwise determine the legal basis for payment of the tax on the basis of the general scheme of corporate income tax. Shipowners may so choose and, as a rule, decide to enter the tonnage tax system as their tax liability is lower under this scheme. Since the difference between the two tax options amounts to State aid, this must be approved by the European Commission. The first ten-year period was granted between 2008 and 2018, but the law currently under consideration prolongs this reflection for a further 10 years. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, we wanted clear and clear explanations as to the consequences of this extension being not confirmed. And it was only at this last stage, so to speak, just before the 12th, that, as long as the extension of the scheme already approved by the European Commission is not implemented in our legislation, that is to say, today's amendment of the law, the shipowners will still be entitled to the taxation of tonnage, i.e. to a more favourable tax treatment, as they were previously granted entry into this system, but will thus be allowed a form of tax aid which will be unlawful from the point of view of the Republic of Slovenia – the European Union. Therefore, the country is threatening to receive EU financial sanctions as a result of this illegal state aid. It is undeniable that the companies benefiting from this law are taxable. We are afraid that this will even enable the transfer of ship management to ownership-related companies as an additional possible manoeuvre to avoid tax pay. We therefore expect the financial administration to maximize its engagement and use all leverage to repay this tax debt. In the SMC, we also drew attention to the comments of the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and High Maritime Schools, which warned that the law makes the situation and conditions for practical training of students and students worse. We are pleased that all the competent authorities have listened quickly to our initiative and have met with the representatives of these institutions with the aim of finding a solution. I therefore expect more active policy from the competent authorities in the future to listen to the arguments of the profession and to take action to make the scheme more favourable for the education system and for the subsequent employment of future seafarers. According to our assessment, it would also be useful to consider limiting the duration of the basic tonnage law to limit its validity to the duration of the approved state aid scheme, i.e. until the end of 2028. All of this has led us to reconsider our support for this law. Members of the Modern Centre Party are aware that the mandate has given us the people to treat the country responsibly, including the rational use of its finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u12	Thank you very much and welcome. At both the Committee on Finance and the last meeting of the National Assembly, the Left only strongly and consistently opposed the amendment of the Tonnage Tax Act, which, under the cover of the rescue of Slovenian shipping, again brings tax exemptions for foreign corporations registered in tax havens and which do not pay taxes. Slovenia already adopted the Tonage Tax Act 2008 which introduced tax exemptions for maritime transport operators. Shipowners can thus apply an alternative way of calculating the tax on profits. The tax is paid in a flat rate much lower than the official profit tax, which was then 25% and today 19%. It is intended to subsidise the expansion and development of the shipbuilding in Slovenia. In fact, these are tax gifts for Puerto Rican General Navigation. Since she's been privatized by another Yanshe government, it's a German private company. Two subsidiaries of the General Navigation of Genshipping Corporation and Lucija Shipping are included in the tonnage tax scheme. The first is registered in Liberia and the second is registered in the Marshall Islands. In practice, therefore, it is not about helping domestic shipowners, but about subsidising private capital flowing into tax havens. As a result of the scheme, Slovenia received EUR 2.2 million of tax revenue annually from shipowners between 2008 and 2018, less than it would have received if they paid a profit tax at the general level of the DDPO. The scheme therefore caused the budget to lose € 23.8 million in the first decade. Already in 2017, we received a reverse attempt to deduct a tax liability from a German shipowner worth €8 billion, worth €6.4 million, in return. We've detected and prevented Manevere in Levica at the right time. This week's secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Tilen Bozič, was therefore also a criminal informant. Of course, Prime Minister Marjan Šarca did not have any interest in this, as he awarded Bozic a place of secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for the award. Now we are once again witnessing to the controversial machinations of the Ministry of Finance. On 5 December 2019, when the novelty was tabled for consideration, the Government adopted it on the same day. On the Finance Committee, the representative of the Government did not disclose the actual consequences of the novel on public finances. In a notification to the European Commission, the Ministry of Finance indicated the planned state aid of €35.3 million. The financial implications of the novel are described only as positive for the country because it is expected to raise half a million dollars in tax. It also did not respond to the allegations that the scheme relates to taxpayers, even though it is tax confidentiality, although Dursa’s public data shows that the taxpayers are both Genshipping Corporation and Lucia Shipping. The Association for the Conservation of Slovenian Shipbuilding and the Development of Slovenian Maritime has also pointed out that the novelty of the private owner, who sold out the Slovenian fleet and put the Slovenian shipowner among the taxpayers, rewards him for the destruction of the Slovenian shipbuilding and further enables him to benefit from tax aid from the tonnage tax system by operating through related companies. The Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport also notes in its warnings that the shipowners have not invested enough in development and education so far, and it has not ensured that they would do so by some miracle in the future. By adopting the novel, conditions are created for new state aid to be received by companies that are not the owners of any ship. In addition, the novelty allows the taxpayer to transfer the activities to new companies without prior settlement of the tax liability. The proposed novel will not save the Slovenian shipbuilding, but will finance its further destruction by means of budgetary means. We will therefore vote against it again in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will next present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Councillor of State, Mr Zidanšek, colleagues and colleagues! According to the Government, the aim of the proposal for a law to harmonise domestic legislation setting out a state aid scheme in the form of a tax on tonnage, with an act by the European Commission or more precisely, is to provide Community guidelines on State aid for maritime transport. The law therefore starts to apply to last year, I emphasise, last year's tax year, from 1 January 2019 onwards. That is why the question for the Government was on the table – there was no answer whether the change meant an increase in the tax base and an increase in the tax liability back. Indeed, the explanation of the transitional provision of the law states: “The application of the law from 1 January 2019 will not affect the acquired rights of the debtors, which means that the debtors will not be deprived of the entitlements which have been granted to them by the Tonnage Tax Act in the past.” End of quote. Ladies and gentlemen, those bureaucrats who wrote this law do not understand what it means to be competitive, what competition means in this case in the shipping market. Nor do they understand how a particular economic segment is promoted, nor do they understand how to promote an education system. In this case, the law, which is truly shocking, excludes maritime education, which is one of the builders of Slovenia as a maritime state, Slovenia as a maritime state. The biggest problem with the law is the requirement to reinvest the profits of ship sales. Competitive laws regulating tonnage taxes across Europe do not have any reinvestment requirements. When the boatman sells his ship, he doesn't pay any extra taxes. What about in Slovenia? In Slovenia, the shipowner's law forces income – pay attention – not profit, the income from selling reinvests in new ships. To do so, the law makes it available to him for five years. If it does not, the whole purchase – I emphasise, the whole purchase, is considered to be a tax base of a legal person under the Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons. It's called, excuse me, criminal law because it punishes a boatman if he fails to reinvest profits within five years. What if the shipowner was forced to sell the ship because of, for example, liquidity problems in the company? What if the ship's market is in crisis? This has been in the real world for almost 13 years. Then how can a boatman reinvest in profits? Where does he get the money? There's no money because the income from the sale of the ship went to cover the minuses on the other ships. By the way, 2012 and 2013 were catastrophic flights for shippers. Plus the current law, which can be said to be unconstitutional because the shipowner is taxed on the entire purchase, not just profit, as stipulated by the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons. This unconstitutionality is not regulated by a new proposal. And this unconstitutionality has already been recognized by the Constitutional Court even in the case of General Navigation. Although the constitutional initiative was rejected as premature, it is clear from the separate opinion of the Constitutional Court that this part of the law is unconstitutional. Unfortunately, Slovenia has no boater other than the General Navigation, which is German-owned, and will not have it, because Slovenian law is uncompetitive, for example, Greek, Cypriot, Italian, German, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch and so on. There is probably some logic in why it is in these countries that the largest European shipping companies have. And why not in Slovenia? Because we have a bad marriage because we have an uncompetitive marriage. In re-decision on the amendment of the Tonage Tax Act, the New Slovenia Group will re-vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by the mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u16	Dear President, Secretary of State, Representative of the Council of State, Fellow Member, Members, distinguished students on the balcony! On the basis of the veto tabled by the Council of State, we are now re-declaring the amendment of the law. The fact is that the Slovenian maritime economy does not exploit its potential despite the favourable geostrategic position. It is also a fact that only a state aid scheme in the form of a tonnage tax will not save our maritime economy. However, we must be aware that without the adoption of the law in question, Slovenia will no longer have the same tax environment as other maritime countries. Unless the law is passed, there will be no arrival of new ships. In addition to closing the doors to new ships, we risk losing the only shipowner included in the tonnage tax scheme in the Republic of Slovenia. In this way we will lose the contractor of compulsory training on ships, maritime jobs, maritime knowledge and maritime industries, and certainly the country's tax revenues on the maritime economy. In the SAB Group, we believe that the adoption of the law has a positive impact on the existence and development of the Slovenian maritime sector, so this time we will also support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act is required to confirm the extension of State aid for a new 10-year period. Such an extension is in favour of maintaining the status of Slovenia as a maritime state. The tax on tonnage is, in fact, an alternative form of determining the tax base for the payment of corporate income tax. Legal persons operating on ships in international navigation may choose whether to pay a flat-rate tax under the tonnage tax scheme in relation to the tonnage of the ship and the number of days of operation of the ship or to pay a tax on the income of legal persons based on the determination of the tax revenue and expenditure in accordance with normal accounting standards. Other European Union countries also use state aid in the form of tonnage tax. There is therefore less tax revenue in the budgets compared to corporate income tax, and these countries are pursuing the objective of promoting and developing maritime transport. The rejection of the law would mean that the law would remain in force, which would not be in line with the European Union acquis or with the State aid guidelines. However, State aid which does not comply with such a legal order must be recovered. The rejection of the law would result in the loss of taxpayers or shipowners in Slovenia, which would have negative consequences for Luka Koper and less opportunities for the employment of our seafarers and additional difficulties in organising their education in Slovenia. One of the priorities of the Tonage Tax Act is to enable the employment of seafarers from Slovenia, where the planned targets have not been achieved in the past period – this should also be stressed. Therefore, the conditions for entry into the tonnage tax system are supplemented for taxable persons operating a ship for a shipowner, provided that the activity of ship management is carried out from the Republic of Slovenia and that 51 % of the nationals of the Republic of Slovenia or of nationals of another Member State of the European Union are employed for the purposes of carrying out activities on land or ships. Countries also promote such employment through other elements of tax policy, such as reducing contributions, paying contributions and income. At the same time, it should be stressed that tax policy is only part of the policies that govern this area. For example, Slovenia is governed by Article 42 of the Income Act, which provides that the taxable basic income earned by the taxable person in connection with the operation of a long-shiping commercial ship which sails the high seas, provided that, under the contract of employment, he is provided to be boarded for at least 6 months or, due to such employment, a percentage of Slovenia is included in the tax year for at least 6 months only 50 % of such income. The outstanding tax obligations of the debtors liable for the tonnage tax are within the competence and responsibility of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which must also be recovered without any exception. The adoption of the law will provide a legal framework that can allow for the maintenance of the operations of existing ships in Slovenia and the possible attracting of new business entities from this activity. All these are the reasons that Members of the Desus Group are sending us to back up the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonage Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u20	Good day to you all, especially the President, the Councillor of State and the Secretary of State of the Ministry! According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, the Tonnage Tax Act is totally unnecessary. Slovenia is supposed to be a maritime state and is supposed to provide for the maritime economy. At the moment, the bad situation proves that it has not done anything good with its reckless measures for the development of the maritime economy. The Tonage Tax Act means State aid for maritime transport or flat-rate tax. Slovenia hereby waives the tax to be paid by a foreign shipowner. It is clear from Apes that the majority owner is a German company and the person empowered to represent is from Chile. The Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport stated that 23 million euros of State aid had no expected impact. They point to difficulties in providing traineeships. The Piran Maritime School also complains that they must co-finance the costs of practice of pupils on ships. The country allows a foreign shipowner millions of reliefs, and this does not provide any practice or training for our students and students. The company for the preservation of the Slovenian shipbuilding claims that the number of ships has decreased from 22 to 4. General navigation has been published on its website to manage ten ships. The general voyage is intended to have two subsidiaries, namely Liberia and Marshall Islands. Both jurisdictions are considered tax havens. There is also talk of taxpayers and insolvency. If a business entity is granted a tax advantage, there must be a reason why. What does Slovenia have to do with allowing foreign legal entities millions of tax exemptions? Nothing at all. Let us give such a relief to Slovenian entrepreneurs and we will certainly get new jobs. If the State wanted to seriously develop maritime activities, it would not sell its share in the General Navigation in 2007. When you're talking about a Slovenian shipman, that's what you're talking about. It doesn't matter where the company sits. It's who owns it. And the owner of the General Sailing is a foreigner. Slovenia no longer has its shipowner and a foreign shipowner should be assisted by a foreign country. The State should ensure that the shipowner receiving State aid will benefit from the additional employment of Slovenian students and students. Instead of the Tonage Tax Act, the State could subsidise the payment of contributions to Slovenian employees. This would solve two issues – state aid would be conditional on the employment of Slovenian staff. The Central Maritime School and the Faculty of Maritime Affairs should, independently of the state, find jobs for students and students. If you don't know them, they should close their doors. Half of Styria and half of Pomurje will work in Austria, but our sailors will work in Italy or Croatia. It is very bad for me, but in the past you have allowed such governments that have sold Slovenian property instead of elevating it. Can a ship be a boater if it hires ships for its activities? This is very unusual. Then he could be any boatman. Can you imagine someone being a farmer without having his own land? This is only possible in Slovenia. After ten years, we can say that the tonnage tax has no positive impact on the conservation and development of the Slovenian maritime sector. The tonnage tax should be abolished. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. The next one has the word mag. Marko Pogačnik to present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u22	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The main solutions to the amendments and additions to the Tonage Tax Act set out in the proposal for a law lay down the arrangements that follow the rules on State aid for maritime transport or, in particular, the Community guidelines in this area. The latter also means that the existing legislation on taxation of international maritime transport wishes to be aligned with the European Commission's act in order to ensure consistency and transparency in the application of internal legal rules with the European Commission's act. We do not support the proposed changes and additions made by the government of Marjan Šarc in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group for a number of reasons. We are convinced that the amendment and amendment of the law contain a series of shortcomings. The law also contains retroactivity. The government has proposed an emergency procedure. We do not see any reason why this urgent procedure should be enforced. Above all, we are convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that both the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not prepared in time for this amendment to the law. Due to all the said amendment and the addition of the Tonage Tax Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Zabret will present the last position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you, Vice President. Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are again deciding on the amendment of the Tonage Tax Act, which is to extend the selective measure, which treats taxpayers who operate with ships in international navigation more favourably. Since such a measure constitutes State aid, it must be re-elected or extended to the European Commission after the period for which such aid was granted. We are aware that if the decision of the European Commission is not implemented in the Tonnage Act, this aid will be from 1. 1. 2019 Unauthorised and Slovenia will pay a certain penalty on this basis. Your Honor! As a maritime country, we committed ourselves in the Maritime Guidance Resolution to ensuring the development of the maritime economy, and in 2007 we introduced such a tax as many other countries to ensure better conditions for maritime development and a competitive performance on the global market. The last entry into the State aid scheme was possible until 31 December 2018 and Slovenia has therefore requested the European Commission to extend the scheme in 2017, but the procedure has shown that some of the solutions still need to be amended. The European Commission has approved a request to extend the tonnage tax scheme for the next decade of Slovenia, which means that we must now adopt the amendments, as set out in the proposal for a law, using 1 January 2019. In the LMŠ Group, we are aware that this is a system law that follows a broader political and economic objective of preserving Slovenia's status as a maritime state. We are also aware that certain important issues have been raised at the conclusion of the procedure for the adoption of the law, which cannot be fully resolved by amendments when we re-vote the Law. However, we are counting on a more active policy of the competent authorities in the field of education and employment of future seafarers in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The re-decision on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT OF THE WORKING LAW IN THE COUNTRY AUTHORITIES. The draft law was tabled by a group of 33 Members and Members with the first signature of Mateya Udovč and I give the floor to Mrs Mateja Udovč to the representative of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u26	Your Honor! By amending the proposal for a law on civil servants, the European Union Directive is not transposed into our legal order, but it only eliminates inconsistencies and inequalities in the treatment of public servants in relation to the rights to an additional day of annual leave. The fact is, all parents have the same obligation to their children. The resolution on the basis of family policy in the Republic of Slovenia and the Family Code prescribe for all parents the duty to care for their children no matter where we are employed. In the framework of its social policy, however, the country must provide us with the appropriate conditions for the exercise of this parental duty. We therefore need to harmonise minimum standards of parental rights in the legislative branch of power for the protection and care of our children. This also applies to public servants. However, the current legislation in this area does not allow this. Because it treats civil servants differently. In practice, there are unreasonable situations where employees in the public sector have different rights from the labour force, despite the fact that we are all financed from public funds. Moreover, there is also a distinction in the same or comparable jobs, such as the accountant, the supplier, the consultant and other employees in the municipality and ministries, in determining the additional days of leave provided for in this Title, as do those public servants who are employed in public institutions and other similar institutions. The current legislation treats civil servants under 15 years of age with different treatment. Part of the public sector staff shall be treated according to the criteria of the Law on National Authorities Workers and the other part of the staff shall be treated under collective agreements, decisions, rules summarizing the ZDR. This means that the latter have the right to an additional day of leave for each child up to the age of 15, while some sectors have even more favourable conditions. However, the provisions in Article 38 of the Act on National Authorities Workers provide that the worker shall have the right to increase his leave for a maximum period of three days, regardless of the number of children up to 10 years of age, and irrespective of the other criteria set out in this Act. This means, in certain cases, that an individual shall not be entitled to any day of leave for children up to 10 years if he or she already has the other criteria set out in Article 38 of the Act. With the amendment of the Law on National Authorities Workers, I would like to eliminate the inconsistencies that arise in the determination of additional days of leave for employees who have children under the age of 15 years. In doing so, I want to ensure equality and equal treatment for all employees in public administration who have this right. I am not proposing additional benefits, but I am merely proposing to align the situation of public servants with the amendment and addition of Article 38 of this Act. The text of Article 39 of the ZDDO shall also be aligned with the ZDR in amending the law. In the second paragraph, the words “the worker with disabilities shall be replaced by the words “the person with disabilities and the worker who cares for and protects the child who needs special care and protection in accordance with the rules governing family benefits”. This amendment will make it clearer for the beneficiary to increase additional leave days, following a new one for all disabled persons and workers who care and protect children who need special care and protection in accordance with the rules governing family benefits and not only for disabled workers. Thus, in practice, there will be no further difficulties in determining the rights set out in this Title. The beneficiaries will be able to prove their right under Article 39 of the Law by a new decision of the Centre for Social Work. The proposed solution is in line with systemic changes and current arrangements for the protection of children in need of special care and protection. At the same time, it also equates the rights of all persons with disabilities and not just those with disabilities, as is the case with the current regime. Since this change is about eliminating inequality and unequal treatment of public servants who have a beard for a very long time, I thank you now, on my behalf and on behalf of all civil servants, for your expressed support for amending the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a working mother, and I give the floor to Mr Zvonk Černač to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government introduced the Law on National Authorities Workers, which was presented to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Mateya Udovč, at its 17th emergency meeting on 15 January this year. Representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration, the Union of State Authorities of Slovenia and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the course of the course of business, an amendment was tabled to Article 3 of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus Group. In its supplementary explanation, the applicant pointed out that the legislation in force dealt differently with employees in public administration who had children up to 15 years of age when determining their leave. The proposed novel is intended to eliminate the inconsistencies that occur when additional days of leave are fixed for employees who have children up to 15 years of age. It is therefore not an exercise of additional benefits, but an equalization of the situation of all civil servants. As a consequence, Article 38 of the Law on National Authorities, Article 1 of the Law on Workers, reads the Labour Relations Act and dictates that an annual leave should be increased by 1 day for any child who has not yet reached the age of 15. In addition, Article 39 of the Law on Labour Relations also aligns with the Law on National Authorities Workers, which sets out more clearly beneficiaries to increase additional leave days for all disabled persons and workers who care and protect children who need special care and protection in accordance with the rules on parental protection and family benefits. In practice, this will no longer lead to difficulties in demonstrating entitlement to this right, as the beneficiaries will be able to prove it by a decision of the Centre for Social Work. The proposed solution is in line with the current regulation on the protection of children in need of special care and protection, while equalising the rights of all persons with disabilities and not just those with disabilities, as is the case with the current regulation. In explanation of the Government's opinion on the proposal for a law, the Government has explained the reasons why the Government has so far failed to address this issue by itself and has pointed out that the government does not oppose the proposed regulation. The president of the Union of National Authorities of Slovenia also expressed support for the proposal, which further stressed the importance of the proposed provisions to eliminate inequalities in the determination of additional days of leave for certain civil servants or the equalisation of rights when establishing additional days of leave for all regular employees in the Republic of Slovenia who have children up to the age of 15. In a short discussion, the discussors of all the parliamentary groups expressed their support for the bill as it eliminates inconsistencies or certain anomalies, in determining additional days of leave for employees who have children under the age of 15 and for disabled workers. In doing so, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group and the New Slovenia Group have stressed that they are always prepared to support all quality legislative proposals, especially those that go in the direction of family support, regardless of who proposes them, although they do not generally receive similar support from coalition Members and Members in their good proposals. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments of the Letters of Marjan Šarca Group, Social Democrats, the Modern Centre Party, Alenka Bratušek and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons to Article 3. The Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and unanimously adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mojci Ramšak Pešec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u30	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Workers in State Authorities, which has been tabled in the legislative procedure by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Member Mateja Udovč, and the proposal for a law amending the two articles of the Law on Workers in State Authorities does not conflict. Indeed, employees in the public administration authorities are still subject to the annual leave criteria and criteria under the Act on Workers in State Authorities, even though the Law on Civil Servants has ceased to apply for most of the time. In force and use, only the provisions concerning the determination of annual leave applicable to the arrangements of this matter in the collective contract for the administration of the State remain. Notwithstanding the fact that the topic is addressed, i.e. the setting of criteria and criteria for the establishment of an annual leave for employees in the public authorities, the representative unions representing employees in the public administration authorities in the Act on Public Servants of Matter, as agreed by the social partners in the collective agreement, have given support to the proposed law and are therefore supported by the Government. Until now, the government and trade union parties have failed to agree on and harmonise collective agreements that, in addition to the rights and obligations of the labour relationship, would also agree on criteria and criteria for the determination of annual leave. In view of the regulation of the right to annual leave in the Labour Relations Act 2013 and also in relation to other collective agreements applicable to other public sector activities, which also include provisions of the Labour Relations Act, employees of public administration bodies have lower or lower rights in determining annual leave under the child-care criterion, which is now being abolished by the proposed law and the right to leave under this Title, in line with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act applicable to all employees in that country, including in the private sector, and also with collective agreements applicable to other activities in the public sector. The proposal for a law amending Article 39 shall also coordinate the terminology and criteria for determining the annual disability leave and the criteria for the care and protection of a child in need of special care and protection. These criteria or terminology shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act and the applicable regulatory arrangements in the field of the protection of children in need of special care and protection. Uncoordinated terminology in this part has caused difficulties in deciding on leave in each particular case, and this change makes it easier to enforce the law in this part. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose and support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first is given the word, Mr Gregor Perič, to present the views of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Colleague and colleagues, the others! Before us is the law of the Group of Members and Members with the first signed Member of SMC Matejo Udovč. Last December, we submitted to the National Assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Workers in State Authorities. These amendments and additions relate to Articles 38 and 39 of the Law governing leave and absence of work for public servants in public authorities and local authorities. In the SMC Group, we have joined this legislative initiative of our fellow Member, Mateja Udovč, not only because she is a member of our parliamentary group, but mainly because we advocate the equal position of all employees in the public sector and at the same time we want to finally eliminate the injustice committed by some small group of public servants and employees who are employed in the public authorities and local community bodies. We would like to stress here that we are not proposing additional benefits for a group of public servants, but that this change aims to align their situation with other employees in the public sector. The current regulation of public sector employees who have children treats differently depending on where they are employed or who their employer is. However, a smaller part of public servants shall have the right to increase their leave for a maximum of 3 days and an additional day for a child only up to 10 years of age shall be included in this quota, regardless of the number of children and regardless of the other criteria on which it is entitled to use these days. The second, the largest part, and public servants, are treated on the basis of collective contracts, various rules and similar rules, which either summarise the right as laid down in the Labour Relations Act, under which the worker is entitled to an additional one day leave for each child up to 15 years of age and is not limited to any quota or even provide for additional benefits or additional days of leave for children, such as 2 days for children up to 7 years of age. In this regard, we would like to point out that, by amending Article 38 of the current law, this provision is only uniform with the applicable Labour Relations Act, which provides that a worker’s annual leave is increased by one day for every child who has not yet reached the age of 15. However, an increase in additional leave days will allow all disabled persons and not only disabled persons, as has been the case so far, by amending Article 39. This will also improve the situation of public servants who care and protect a child in need of special care and protection, as they will no longer face difficulties in exercising the rights set out in this Title in practice. Once again, we would like to point out that the Law on National Authorities Workers was adopted in 1990. The law regulated the specificities of labour relations for civil servants, and individual arrangements were subsequently repealed by laws such as the Public Sector Wage System Act and the Public Servants Act. Since then, legislation, such as the Labour Relations Act and other laws, has changed so that this law does not properly address disabled persons, children with special needs, etc. In the SMC Group, we once again welcome the legislative initiative of our colleague, Mateja Udovč, which decided that after a long seventeen years since the adoption of the Labour Relations Act in 2002, it would eliminate the unequal situation of some civil servants and also regulate this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Ms Nataša Sukič will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good-bye! We've got a new Law on National Authorities Workers. The applicant noted an anomaly in the system of leave rights and is now eliminating it, which is commendable. But this is where she ends up, because the applicant noticed the anomaly because it concerns her personally. This shows how much and all too often Parliament is alienated from the people. It is good that the political representatives of the people are ever aware that they are themselves. But unfortunately, this happens rarely, too rarely. Political pluralism, which should primarily be an expression of freedom, at least as we once dreamed and believed, is, unfortunately, all too often expressed as a oppressor of the interests of the common man, as a oppressor of the interests of the worker. And it doesn't matter if we're dealing with a plural or unilateral system. The political monopoly is the same in both cases. Just like the same insurmountable alienation between the people's representatives and the people themselves. Pluralism of urban democracy is usually not seen by man. If it were, we would not have witnessed an ever-increasing gap between a rich capital elite on one side and a poor majority on the other. And we would not have witnessed such a sad death of the social state, the agony we have witnessed in the last 30 years. With your novel you have seen an invisible citizen, an invisible citizen for a moment. For a naked shadow, you even recognized a living man, a man with material interests and rights. However, it is sad and meaningful that you removed this plate only the moment you finally realized that you would see yourself as one. We can only hope that you can remove it once again, that you will once again experience a glimpse of the knowledge that we have been put here by the people and that we should represent here, in particular, the interests of this same people and not every time again the insatiable interests of the capital lobby. I hope that you will also squander a little of the knowledge when we talk about shameful pensions, the disgusting supply prices in concessional homes for the elderly, or when we finally try to eliminate additional health insurance in a just way. When we try to stifle the tenacity and madness of the real estate market, which would guarantee the poorest of the population their basic, constitutional, right: roof over the head. Or, when we try to eliminate unemployment and overcarnation, which is causing widespread social anxiety, general uncertainty. Uncertainty in life, in health, in work and even in death. Well, hope dies last, we will of course support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The proposed amendment of the Law on National Authorities Workers eliminates inequalities in the determination of additional days of leave for public administration workers for certain public servants. The problem is that individual groups of employees within the public sector are subject to different legal bases when determining an additional day of annual leave for children and persons with disabilities. It is proposed to amend Article 38, which provides that employees in public authorities also have the right to increase their leave by one day after the age of 10. This is equivalent to the remaining public sector employees. Article 39 is further aligned with the applicable regulation in the law governing working relations. For one day, annual leave shall be increased for all disabled persons, not only for workers, and for workers who care and protect children who need special care and protection. In Novi Slovenija we are advocates of family and family life, so we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Starović is next. He will present the position of the SAB Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u38	Madam President, thank you for your word. Good-bye. Your Honor! Although the Law on National Authorities workers has largely ceased to be in force in accordance with the final provisions of the Law on Public Servants. However, the provisions in force governing salaries, compensations and reimbursements remain. In addition, the provisions of this law governing annual leave remain in force for civil servants. However, the Labour Relations Act applies mutatis mutandis to other questions relating to annual leave. The Labour Relations Act provides that an individual shall be entitled to one day's leave for each child up to the age of 15. However, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Workers in State Authorities, a worker shall have a maximum of three days of annual leave for children up to the age of 10 years, regardless of whether the worker has more than three children. As a result, workers in public authorities with large families are in a worse position than other civil servants. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Workers in State Authorities, which we are discussing today, follows the principle of equality as set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This includes a solution that will allow the worker to increase his annual leave by one day for every child who has not yet reached the age of 15. However, the second amendment contained in the proposal is in line with the applicable regulation of the Labour Relations Act. In practice, it has been shown that there are difficulties in determining whether or not there are serious physical harm in an individual case. By adopting the proposal, the right to increase annual leave will therefore be better regulated for those workers who care and protect children who need special care and protection. In the SAB Group, we support a solution that, by example, allows for the same rights as other civil servants. We are pleased that the proposal has already been unanimously supported at the Committee's meeting. Members of the SAB will also contribute their votes in support of the law at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the DeSUS Group will unanimously support the amended proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Workers in State Authorities. The proposal for a new law relates to two amendments, namely the equalisation of annual leave for each child up to the age of 15 for employees in the larger public authorities and the additional alignment with the labour legislation on annual leave for disabled persons. With regard to the equalisation of leave for children, it should first of all be said that the Public Servants Act, adopted in 2002, retained the provisions of the Law on Workers in State Authorities, but only fixed the rate of leave. In doing so, he made it clear that it was applicable until the adoption of a collective agreement for the public sector. Most of the public sector has already been governed by individual collective agreements, while, unfortunately, a narrower part of the public sector has not been found since 2002 in a will and common language in order to accede to the creation and adoption of the necessary collective agreement. So let me take this opportunity, and on behalf of the Desus Group, let me call on those responsible to finally sit at the common table, start to talk and finally agree. It is a fact that the competent ministry and the Government are also aware that there are different provisions within the public sector regarding the rate of leave and that it will be necessary to approach the analysis of this area sooner rather than later, on the basis of the results, to establish criteria and rules that will not create inequalities for employees both within the public sector and in the relation of the public-private sector. We have already arranged one of these discrants with the adoption of the amendment of the Labour Relations Act in December last year, when with 84 votes in favour, we legislated equality between parents of primary schoolchildren. We're deciding on other such disciplinarians today. The proposed solution is equivalent to that of working parents with respect to the dose of annual leave attached to the child and the age of the child. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that in this case it is a personal situation in which a vacation should not affect the fact that someone is employed. Such inequalities or discrimination against parents and, as a result, the deprivation of their children simply depends on who their employer is, of course, must not be allowed. Moreover, there is now even a distinction within the individual organs. And that I will not expose others, I refer to the case of the National Assembly, where parents of Members are given leave under the basic labour rules, which is more favourable, while parents employed in the National Assembly are given leave under the Law on Workers in State Authorities. The second part of the amendments to the basic law relates to compliance with the Labour Relations Act, which provides for an increase in annual leave for all persons with disabilities, not only for workers with disabilities, and for workers who care and protect children in need of special care and protection. There has also been a lack of clarity and unanimity in practice, resulting in the deprivation of employees who would be entitled to an increase in leave for these reasons. In view of the consensus of the working body, we can assume that this solution will also be adopted unanimously, which shows that it is also possible to find a common language in this temple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Šisko will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! The law on civil servants is old. This law regulates the rights of employees in public authorities. These addresses are supposed to be about 30,000 500. The law was adopted long ago in 1990. During all 30 years of his life, he has undergone many changes, and only provisions on leave and absence of work are in force. Even though it's a skeleton between marriages, it's still the law. The rules in force deal differently with civil servants who have children up to 15 years of age when determining their annual leave, which is not right. The purpose of the proposed amendments is thus to eliminate the inconsistencies that occur when additional leave days are fixed for employees who have children up to the age of 15 years. It is not an exercise of additional benefits, but merely an equalization of the situation of all civil servants. The current regulation of the same positions in a variety of ways is arbitrary, without a reasonable and real reason. The proposal legitimizes equality before the law, which is a fundamental human right. Since the law is primarily a small person, despite the approach that the proposaler has taken to solve the problems proposed by the amendments, we will support them. However, it would be right for that law to expire and to adopt an arrangement where the same regime would apply to all public servants in the public sector as to public servants employed in state offices. Family is the primary cell and is the fundamental building block of a healthy society. If it does not systematically approach the regulation of family policy, it will be even worse in the coming years than it is today. It is right that this proposal follows a resolution on family policy 20018-2028 for all families a friendly society. The current regime is inconsistent with the objectives of the resolution, as a group of public servants does not allow your coordination of family and professional life. At this point, I would like to stress the criticism that the current government, with representative public sector trade unions, has agreed, by means of the Agreement on the Resolution of Textile Requirements and the Agreement on Salaries and Other Labour Costs in the Public Sector, to open negotiations for the normative work of those collective contractual activities that do not contain normative work. To this day, there has been nothing about these activities, and we are not familiar with them, nor will we, as it appears. It is right to work on the principle of the social state, because all measures that contribute to a fairer and more social Slovenian society are right and will always have our support. It is also right to work on family policy and today we will take a small step towards this goal. The proposed law is exactly the same as it provides public servants who are employed in public authorities with the right to propose a different allocation of working time or the right to paid absence from work due to personal circumstances and the need to harmonise family and professional life. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. The next is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert to present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Actually, I'm going to be very brief in this position. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we said on the home committee itself, when we discussed this proposal for a law, that we never have any problems with proposals for a law that are good. This bill is good and we support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is true, however, that this is only one drop in the sea in the area of the problems we face in the field of workers in state bodies, especially in individual segments. This is about law enforcement officers or more known to people than prison guards. I'm going to point this out right now, because the union representative, the last time we had this topic at the parental body meeting, pointed out that the human resources situation was extremely poor. Such a proposal certainly helps to ensure that someone who has already given up may not give up. But it is necessary to know that human resources pressures are extremely great here and that they simply no longer know how to organize work in our prisons. Therefore, let this bill, which has already had unanimous support on the home committee, begin to take steps in another area that is necessary, or it may happen to us that a system that is very important in this country will run into a severe obstacle, or even a difficult situation will come before us when we face the fact that we will not have people who can do this work and I do not know what follows. So let's put it out before the fire starts while there's still some fire. We can certainly take an important step forward here with our collective strength. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Nik Prebil will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and fellow Members! The public sector service system is indeed governed by a number of laws, such as the Law on Public Servants, the Law on Civil Servants, the Law on Public Sector Salaries and the Law on Labour Relations, numerous collective agreements and other sectoral rules. The same area of the right to annual leave is governed by several rules, notably two of them: the Labour Relations Act and the Act, which we are amending with this amendment, which is, somehow, unevenly addressing the right to additional leave days for parents. That is precisely why I can say, and accordingly in the Group of Members, the changes we are talking about are good and offer an appropriate remedy for injustices. It is true that there are some 23,000 government officials, but I am sure that each of these parents has much meaning. As has already been said, there are basically two amendments to the law, which have a key impact on the fact that workers in state bodies will now be equal to those in public administration. The current law, which is in force, provides that the employee’s annual leave shall be increased by a maximum of three days; among the other cases, care for the child up to the age of 10 is also a concern for the child, which is otherwise provided for in the Public Servants Act. Thus, after the approval of this proposal, the worker in the State authorities will have the right to one additional day of annual leave for any child who has not yet reached the age of 15 years. This amendment aligns the rights of workers in public administration with the rights of workers in public administration to grant annual leave for any child who has not yet reached the age of 15 years. In practice, however, it is now possible for public administration workers not to receive this additional day of leave for any child who has not yet reached the age of 15 as is possible for those in public administration. As it is said, it is a matter of eliminating unequal treatment and ensuring equal rights for all parents who are employed either in public or in public administration. And once again, it is certainly not about adding something new, but it is about equivalency, because, last but not least, both groups are financed by public funds. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we support the fact that the novels of the law were created in cooperation with and with the support of trade unions, so we also joined in supporting the law and signed it together with SMC and SD. Article 39, which provides for an increase in annual leave for all persons with disabilities and not only for disabled workers, as stated now, is also complemented accordingly. There were difficulties in demonstrating eligibility, since the question was supposed to be whether, in a particular case, it was only a matter of severe physical harm or not, so we have arranged it accordingly and now the beneficiaries will be able to apply or demonstrate the eligibility of this leave by a decision of the Centre for Social Work. We are pleased that the proposal, with great support or unanimity, has also adopted the national working body of the National Assembly, both on the coalition side and on the opposition side. In the LMŠ Group, we will also support such a coordinated proposal for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you very much. He'll be like the last one. Bojana Muršič presented the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me just say in the introduction that the Social Democrats will support the proposed amendment of the law and we are also co-signers of this bill. With the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on National Authorities Workers, we wish to align the provisions with the Labour Relations Act and not to obtain any additional benefits for public servants, as has been heard several times. Under the provisions of the Act on National Authorities Workers, a maximum of three days of annual leave may be granted to the worker, regardless of whether the employee has more than 3 children up to 10 years of age, and also regardless of whether the other criteria set out in this Article, such as work in noise, moisture and the management of the internal organisation unit, are met. Article 159 of the Labour Relations Act, however, refers to the right to a minimum period of annual leave, which only provides that the worker is entitled to one additional day of annual leave for each child who has not yet reached the age of 15. It also provides that an older worker, a disabled person, a worker with at least 60 % disability and a worker who takes care of and protects a child who needs special care and protection in accordance with the rules governing family benefits shall be entitled to at least three additional days of annual leave. The key purpose of the proposed amendments to the Law on National Authorities Workers is only to eliminate those inconsistencies which occur when additional days of leave are fixed for workers who have children up to 15 years of age. The proposed amendment will only align the situation of all civil servants and remove the disagreement between the two laws. We are also following the objective of the Resolution on Family Policy 2018-2028 for all families a friendly society or the objective of harmonising professional and family life. Finally, it must be said that the proposed solutions also follow arrangements for the protection of children in need of special care and protection, while equalising the rights of all persons with disabilities and not just those with disabilities, as is the case with the current regime. At the time of adoption of this novel today, the change can already be taken into account when it comes to the 2020 annual leave. The Social Democrats will unanimously support this amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mrs. Mateja Udovč, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. I protest against such representations of positions in which there are untruths. A position like that of the Left, since she was well aware [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u51	Member of the Commission [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u52	I'll tell you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u53	Member of the Commission, I must immediately interrupt you at this point, because this is not a procedural proposal in this way, as you have begun to explain your procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u54	I'll propose a procedural proposal. Just wait. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u55	Please do not identify yourselves to the positions of individual parliamentary groups in your procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u56	However, I suggest that you warn the parties that they do not state the facts in their views, because if they read the law, they would know that Members already have leave for children under the age of 15 and their professional colleagues do not. And not just their professional associates, but all the other employees in the state administration don't have that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u57	Madam Member, this is a substantive debate, it was not a procedural proposal, and I believe you are aware of that. So I ask you not to abuse procedural proposals for such interventions in the future, because otherwise I will be able to give you a warning or more. We're moving on. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item — Second draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. At its 14th session, on 15 January 2020, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft law as the working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. That is why we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first gets the word of Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec to present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a law on the State Council mainly relates to the elimination of some established anti-constitutionality regarding the right to legal protection and the electoral dispute. The fact that the current regime is controversial and even lacking is clear for several years. In the end, the Constitutional Court ruled that the regime was unconstitutional. This is one of the kinds of questions that are still waiting for an appropriate answer. In Levica, when we get some law on the bench, of course, we look at its contents when we examine it, and the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, which in any case is a good guide to the appropriateness of the solutions proposed in the law. This is particularly true of substantively difficult questions. When you get a long law on page 15 18 of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, it is clear that you need to be a little more careful or cover your ears. The solution does not remove all the findings of the Constitutional Court. This is one of the first problems of this marriage. We agree that this is not a matter that the Council of State should resolve, nor is it a single decision of the Constitutional Court; it is a whole series of open questions. Incompatibilities of functions, withdrawal of officials, restriction of candidatures, withdrawal of a mandate – these are just some of the things to be addressed. We have before us a law by which the State Council has tried to answer one of these dilemmas, but in a weak way that would in practice likely cause more problems. Especially since the new regime would apply only to the Council of State, but not to the elections of the National Assembly, the election of the President of the Republic and the election of the European Members. Moreover, it would also be a time to discuss the State Council itself, its role, its composition, its powers, its necessity and, last but not least, the appropriateness of the electoral system itself. There's one more thing I need to point out that's in my eyes. These are completely unacceptable views of the government on this issue. In fact, the government is the one who should prepare not only changes to the Law on the State Council, but also all other laws that regulate all elections. The deadline for the elimination of the constitutionalities established has long expired. When appropriate solutions will be prepared, we have therefore asked the representatives of the Government on the committee. The government also stated in its opinion: “In the preparation of complex legal solutions”, which the resolution of the electoral dispute is undoubtedly, “is a reasonable and necessary in-depth consideration of as many professional stakeholders as possible, which ultimately leads to coherent, comprehensive and practical solutions. The process of preparing proposals for solutions inevitably includes multiple verification of the solutions put forward with the aim of ultimately leading to acceptable and optimal solutions." End of quote. When we asked the representatives of the same government on the committee what stage is the preparation of the appropriate solutions and when proposals will be put into the legislative process, we received an answer that the Government had not prepared or was preparing a bill to implement the constitutional decision because it had received information or was informed that the draft law was actually being prepared by the State Council. Here we can ask ourselves if the government even knows what her job is, what her role is. The government has not included these proposals in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's work programme for 2020, except that it has already prepared its proposals. But it's probably pointless to worry about it right now. Today's proposal by the Council of State in Levi has not been supported by the shortcomings and the uncertainties it opens, but we certainly expect these urgent solutions and changes to be made by the government, whatever it may be, to proceed without delay.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. With the proposed amendment to the State Council Act, which is proposed by the Council of State, it is intended to deal comprehensively with both the preliminary and subsequent election dispute in the State Council. In this regard, the Law on Elections to the National Assembly should not apply in the future. The Council of State also sought to implement the Constitutional Court decision by means of a proposal for a law. In our view, the proposed solutions to the electoral dispute are, in principle, acceptable. I am referring mainly to the previous election dispute here. With regard to the subsequent electoral dispute, however, we believe that the proposed solution is non-systemic. In Novi Slovenija we believe that an expert debate on the regulation of the area of electoral dispute should be opened. We are convinced that this area must be regulated so that all elections – both for elections to the National Assembly and the Council of State and for elections to the European Parliament and local elections – will be properly and uniformly applied.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u62	Chairman, thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Council of State has tabled in the legislative procedure the Proposal for a Law on the State Council. It takes two-thirds of the votes of all Members to adopt this law, as this is a very important legal issue. The right to vote is constitutional matter and its protection is provided for in Article 43 of the Constitution. The aim of the proposal is primarily to regulate the procedure for elections to the Council of State by eliminating the unconstitutionality established by the Constitutional Court in 2018. It has ruled that Article 50 is contrary to the Constitution because the complaint against the decision of the Council of State not to approve the mandate has been denied to the candidate whose mandate has been rejected. It also regulates the so-called previous and subsequent election dispute. The proposal essentially changes the concept of an electoral dispute completely adapted to the elections in the State Council. The fact is that the area of the electoral dispute is an extremely difficult subject and serious and thorough reflection is needed in changing the regime. In its 18th-page opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the applicant does not refer to all the contradictions to which the Constitutional Court had pointed out in its decision. In addition, new questions have been raised regarding the constitutional dispute in the proposed solutions. They pointed out that the proposal provided for three stages of the legal protection of electoral rights, which would mean that the electoral dispute would be almost impossible to resolve in an understanding of time. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the decision of the State Election Commission is also the first election overseer and the appointment of the Supreme Court as the electoral judge. It is the Constitutional Court that provides for the regulation in force as an electoral judge. It's just some of all the warnings. The mere fact that the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service in such an important matter is long 18 pages is worrying. It also follows from the Constitutional Court's decision that this regime is primarily applicable to elections to the National Assembly, that it is said that it is not only constitutionally contested by the regime of the electoral dispute for elections to the State Council. It is precisely for this reason that it is totally inappropriate for the resolution of the electoral dispute to be regulated at the level of the State Council Act. We cannot solve such an important problem in a partial manner without involving all other stakeholders and legal professionals in this area. It is true, however, that the arrangements for elections are slightly different from those for the National Assembly, but also individual derogations must be exceptional and reasoned. In its opinion, the Government also pointed out that the proposed solutions to the electoral dispute had not been completed to the extent that they were in practice feasible without problems. They advocate a unified resolution of the electoral dispute of all electoral arrangements, taking into account the specifics of individual systems. In view of all the shortcomings that this bill contains and pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government, we do not support this law in the SAB Group, so we voted against it at the meeting of the committee. We agree, however, that this area needs to be addressed urgently. Last but not least, the deadline for the abolition of the anti-constitution has come to an end, and it is certainly necessary to include professionally as a general public in order to create quality solutions that will not cause problems in practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u64	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Council of State has been introduced into the Slovenian parliamentary regime as an adjustment to the general representation. It is intended to express a social structure which cannot be taken into account in the general representation. However, the theoretical justification for correcting the general representation cannot take into account the principle of the quality of representation or the actual structure of the company. National Councillors and Councillors are expected to present corrections in both directions, but in any case only corrective ones. At the end of 2018, the Constitutional Court decided that the provisions of the Law on the State Council relating to the approval of the mandates of state councilors were unconstitutional. This is Article 50 of the Act, which allows the decision of the Council of State not to confirm the mandate of the candidate elected to the election to appeal to the Constitutional Court. The provision therefore does not allow the submission of an appeal to other candidates or candidates for a state councillor. On the basis of the finding of unconstitutionality, the Council of State has drafted a proposal for amendments to eliminate this unconstitutionality. The novelty refers to the comprehensive arrangement of both the preceding and subsequent electoral disputes. The concept of an electoral dispute is completely changed, which is entirely new and independent, but only for elections to the State Council. State councillors are elected in indirect elections, elected in appropriate chambers, joint unions, societies, universities, trade unions and local communities. They are loved by the representative body of that community, which they represent, but if there are those communities, professional or local, more so, they are chosen by the body formed by the electors, namely those chosen to choose among the candidates for the saints. In theory, indirect elections are more suitable for the representation of special interests, whether local or functional, because in this case there are also more possibilities for lasting influence of those who elect a saint for his operation in the State Council. The Councillor is obliged to represent specific professional or local interests in the Council. Members of the Desus Group defend the view that anti-constitution must be abolished. We believe, however, that it is essential to take a comprehensive approach to the regulation of the protection of electoral rights. The right to vote in modern democratic regimes is one of the fundamental human rights or fundamental political rights of citizens at constitutional level. The provisions of electoral law and its protection cannot therefore be dealt with in part and incompletely, as proposed by the State Council, but should be fully pursued for all types of elections, and this is certainly an extremely difficult matter. We do not doubt the seriousness and well-intention of the proposer's approach to drawing up the legal rules on the pre- and post-election dispute, but note that he did not intervene with his legislative initiative in the essential reason for initiating the successive electoral disputes at the time of the elections in the State Council. This fundamental reason is the concept of selective voting with all its main weaknesses, ambiguity, inequality and permissibility of arbitrary decision-making. The question of the legitimacy of elections in the State Council is thus repeatedly raised and is indisputably linked to the perspectives of Slovenian parliamentary bi-domainship. The practice of modern democracy speaks for the sake of double-dwelling. The two-party Parliament is, taking into account all the dimensions of political decision-making, a more democratic institutional form than a single-house Parliament. Ambiguity makes sense if the first and second homes have a different institutional basis and a different order of action. The second home is not a competition for the first home and does not mean a confrontation with the first home, but rather a complement. In Slovenia, the system of incomplete double-homeness is constitutionally established. However, a legal incomplete bi-home is controversial – it is disputed in a work that in a similar, client-constituted way duplicates the structure of the National Assembly. It is said that the structure of the State Council is identical to that of the National Assembly. What I said was also the basic guide that I voted against the proposal of the State Council at the meeting of my mother's working body, and this is also the position of the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u66	Vice President and all present, thank you for your input. We have not supported this law on the committee and I will also say why in my position. The first reason is that the law is technically poorly prepared because it does not take into account the long-standing practice of the Constitutional Court and does not take account of the fundamental legality of the electoral dispute. The proposal is poorly prepared, which is also recognised by the Legal and Legislative Service, and it was impossible to correct or supplement it with appropriate amendments. It's a conceptually flawed bill. The elections of the State Council are based on the content of the same procedures as those of the elections of the National Assembly. The electoral dispute provides for the protection of electoral law and must be regulated equally for both the Council of State and the National Assembly. Today's bill deals with the position of the State Council in an entirely partial way, isolated from the position of the National Assembly and also from the position of other state authorities. A simultaneous regime for the protection of electoral rights would be needed for both the National Assembly and the Council of State. The comparability of two different systems is inadequate in terms of the principle of equality and the rule of law. The next reason is that we defend the view that we do not need the Council of State, so it would certainly be necessary to open a debate on the abolition of the Council of State. In some cases, the Council of State is a blind bowel of Parliamentarianism, and in other cases it shows constructiveness. There's definitely a appendix in our country, because it rarely gives us a sense of constructiveness. Finally, it is a composition of representatives of the interested communities. The Council of State is a representative of social, economic, professional and local interests. The latter impose a state policy solely on the basis of their interests, as their positions are by no means State-efficient. At the same time, it is evident that saints are linked according to political options, as many of them are also active members of political parties. In the last reference, we can see that this is not even about representatives of the interest communities anymore, but about the pool of extraparliamentary political parties. The big question is whether the situation of the interested communities is fairly distributed, and even if all the stakeholders in our country are taken seriously into account. The National Council is trying to take on the function of another home, which is not in the Slovenian Constitution. At the same time, Members are representatives of their constituents, and it is right that they defend the positions of their electoral base in their work. This includes the appropriate expression that each Member has the right to use as he wishes. It is necessary to strengthen the parliamentary function to restore the reputation of the legislative branch of power, where unfortunately we do not see the state councillors, and even if I look today, there is no one in here. We will not support the law in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Election rights are one of the fundamental human rights. It is the political right of a citizen who is defined and protected by our Constitution. Voting rights are some kind of postulate of the electoral system, which is reflected in its activity form, i.e. the right to vote, and also in its passive form, the right to be elected. We tend to place greater emphasis on the protection and guarantee of active electoral rights, but it is also of utmost importance for the real democratic character of a society to respect and ensure equal and free passive electoral rights. In order to ensure this standard, the right to judicial protection and the right to a remedy already provided for in our Constitution are already provided for and must be exercised at legal level in order to effectively protect electoral rights. This includes legal protection in electoral disputes. The electoral dispute within the framework of electoral law is an extremely important and extremely difficult legal category, which, in addition to ensuring that electoral rights are adopted at the normative level by a two-thirds majority, requires, in particular, uniform, comprehensive and professional regulation at all levels of our electoral system. The novelty prepared by the Council of State provided for the amendment of the Law on the State Council, namely in the electoral dispute proceedings, and the fact that the proposed amendment to the new regulation did not follow the principles and legal standards in force in our legal and electoral system, nor did it consistently abolish the non-constitutional regime to which the Constitutional Court warned at the end of 2018. The three-step legal protection of electoral law, as foreseen by the amendment of the Council of State, would introduce an additional inefficiencies in the electoral system applicable to the election of state councillors. There was also a provision that the Supreme Court would be the electoral judge, and on the other hand we know that in all other electoral disputes, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is the electoral judge. Such a derogation from the regime of the electoral dispute with one state authority from the legal protection of electoral rights or the regulation of the electoral dispute with other state bodies is confusing our legal and electoral system. The result would be inconsistent and inconsequential and substantively unrelated arrangements, which are unacceptable in such an important area as the constitutional category, i.e. e. electoral rights. The proposal by modifying the concept of the electoral dispute does not, at the last, introduce new constitutional and legal disputes, as our Legislative and Legal Service also says. Moreover, this amended concept is also outside the Constitutional Court’s decision. Therefore, we have not already supported the proposed novel in the LMŠ Group on the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. In our view, any change in this complex and complex constitutional content requires broad reflection and the participation of the constitutional profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear fellows! By a decision of November 2018, the Constitutional Court ruled that Article 50 of the Law on the State Council was inconsistent with the Constitution, since the remedy, a complaint against the decision of the State Council not to confirm the term of office of a member of the State Council, was reserved only to an elected candidate whose mandate had not been confirmed. The Constitutional Court has established that, pending a different legal arrangement, a complaint against a decision taken by the Council of State in the procedure for the confirmation of the terms of office of the members of the State Council may be lodged by each candidate and candidate and that the constitutionality found must be abolished within one year of the publication of this decision in the Official Journal. In accordance with its powers under the legislative procedure, the Council of State has forwarded a new Law on the State Council with the aim of eliminating the alleged non-compliance with the Constitution with the proposed amendments and additions. The law sought to regulate the legal nature of the protection of electoral rights for elections in the State Council, the previous electoral dispute and the subsequent electoral dispute. The proposal for a bill provides for three stages of the legal protection of electoral rights: a complaint against the State Election Commission, judicial supervision before the Supreme Court and a constitutional appeal. This raises the question of the competent authority for the control of the elections, the so-called election judge. In its opinion on the proposed amendment, the Legal and Legal Service made a number of comments, which are mainly of a legal system nature. The State Council's proposal offers vague, flawed, non-systematic and illogical solutions. Of all the elections, the election of 18 members of the State Council representing social, economic and various professional interests is the most problematic election. As a result of the excessive legal regime, we have witnessed more and more legal disputes in practice, so in fact, with the case law of the Supreme Court there are certain rules that should otherwise be regulated by law. The proposal for a new law did not even address these issues. We have assessed that the proposed solutions to the amendments could not be regulated in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, so we also oppose or oppose the proposal. The entire regime of the electoral dispute should be regulated for all types of elections, in addition to the State Council, the election of the President of the Republic, the election of the National Assembly, the local elections, the elections to the European Parliament. The resolution of the electoral dispute must be uniform, while also taking into account the specifics of individual elections. Finally, we, the Social Democrats, are surprised that the proposer of the proposed content has not previously sent and presented the proposal to the parliamentary groups and checked their support. It is not for the State Council to take away any constitutional right to which the proposed laws belong, but for the adoption of this law to require the support of 60 Members. In the preparation of complex legal solutions, which the resolution of the electoral dispute is also undoubtedly necessary, with the assistance of the legal profession, there will also be sufficient political support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Modern Centre Party will be moved by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Vice President. The world of state is always very fond of calling itself a second home. And as far as I know, and as far as I know, it is officially presented when going abroad, and it is properly honored as a serious other home. As if, though, an imaginary second home should, of course, at home, make sure that problems are dealt with at the right end. He came with the so-called resolution of the electoral dispute, instead of admitting that he has one of the most untransparent ways of electing his candidates to the Council of State. And by doing so, he wanted to cover up all the key problems the State Council has. This agony has been pointed out by an unelected state saint or former, now gone, Mr Christmas, who has actually warned that the matter does not count. In this process, they were exposed by the former President of the National Assembly, Mr Školč, when he warned and clearly warned about the whole rotten procedure of the State Council by its way of action. Finally, he came up with the proposal that the National Assembly should address the issue of the electoral dispute for the State Council and thereby cover up all this rotten story it has behind it. This is just one indication that the State Council is not worth what it actually does and bears with its name, and not least even a house in this same house. If we really wanted to, frankly, solve this problem, we should solve the problems of the untransparent way of electing state councilors into the State Council, thereby reducing the problems of electoral disputes. Because you don't settle an election dispute by simply settling an electoral dispute, but by primarily removing those dilemmas and controversy that later arise in an election dispute. That's the point. Therefore, we could not support such a proposal in the SMC. We also could not support it because of other arguments – the arguments of the Legislative and Legal Service, to which the State Council likes to refer, but can only be written on one side, in this case on 18 pages, but did not refer, for example, to the Legal and Legal Service, and of course, to concerns. And another problem. If there is, if there is, and what this electoral dispute must settle, this issue must be settled first in the electoral law and in the referendum issue. This has already been prepared by the Government in its draft, and it would be funny that for the National Assembly the election dispute would be otherwise settled, such as the election dispute for the State Council. And what's saddest about the whole story is that the whole state world is still aware of it. Therefore, we cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of nine Members and Members with the first-signed Luka Mesec. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Luke Mescu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The UN General Assembly adopted a declaration on universal health care at the end of last September. Universal health care is what everyone receives, regardless of income. Regardless of what our country’s representatives say in such congregations about our health system, its solidarity, it is the fact that we have the most unjust tax in our health system in the country. And this tax is called supplementary health insurance. We pay other taxes either in principle more than you earn, you contribute more when we talk about income, or in principle we all pay at the same percentage. VAT is paid by all at the same percentage, contributions are paid by all at the same percentage, and only supplementary health insurance is paid by all in the same amount. And who does that hit the most? The most hit in the first place is the pensioner who has the lowest income between an active or former active population, and if you imagine a pensioner with 350 euros of pension, he can't spend 10% of his income on supplementary health insurance, otherwise he can't go to a doctor without payment. Last week we were able to listen to the stories of pensioners who, after paying the bills, do not have more than €10 per month for food. Complementary health insurance also disproportionately affects poor employees, espouses and reprimands. If you imagine someone with 700 Euros of income, this is a premium for supplementary health insurance of 5% of your income, otherwise you can't see a doctor without payment. If we are a Member, you know that for this insurance we measure the circus 1% of our income, i.e. relatively five times less than the poor employee, about ten times less than the poor pensioner. Therefore, I repeat, supplementary health insurance is the most unjust tax in this country. The purpose of abolishing this insurance has always been to regulate the fairness of this contribution. Justice can only be settled if this contribution is transformed into such a form that either we all pay it at the same percentage or pay it according to income, the more you earn, the more you contribute. This is the foundation of righteousness. According to our basic proposal, all employees and all pensioners would pay the same percentage as Members about to pay, which is 1% of their income, and the rest would be redistributed to other taxes and benefits, including higher capital burdens. The coalition's proposal for this purpose is to introduce solidarity, divorced, according to the coalition's proposal, each will continue to pay the same amount regardless of income. But in Levi, we will still support this in the third reading today, for a simple reason, the matter will enter into force if adopted, 1. 1. 2021, but until then we have almost a year to agree on a way to ensure a fair financing regime after you have rejected our original proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Health, Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u76	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and honourable Members! We have before us a proposal from Levica to complement the parliamentary groups that abolish supplementary health insurance and introduce a mandatory flat-rate contribution. If amendments drawn up for the law by the LMŠ Parliamentary Group and the Health Insurance Office are adopted, a fuse will be included in the proposal to abolish the supplementary insurance, that is the budget. We insisted on this because I do not want and do not want, not personally and not as a minister – even if now as part of the government that is accessing – to jeopardize the financing of the health system. In the event of rapid partial moves, the budget to ensure that costs are covered in the event of a possible crisis is a minimum security guard so that funding does not fall. A minimum but really minimum condition would be met with this, but I still believe that this area needs to be regulated in an integrated manner, as we have been repeating and preparing all the time in parallel. We have a new law on health care and health insurance ahead of us. This is a roof law, a health reform if you want, although a more appropriate word is adaptation and updating of the health system. This law also provides for the abolition of the current supplementary health insurance system and its replacement by compulsory provision, but controlled and in particular comprehensive, which means that, in addition to the abolition and replacement of this institution within the healthcare system, we also deal with other important issues. As you know, the Health and Health Insurance Act in force since its adoption in 1992 no longer responds to the key challenges of the 21st century. In the new law, we refer to the areas of contribution rates, contributing bases, sufficient financial resources, which, despite or mainly due to demographic challenges, will ensure the sustainability of the health system in the medium and long term. Under the new law, we also regulate the scope and content of compulsory health insurance rights and procedures for their enforcement. We regulate the universality and accessibility of health insurance, the relationship between the payer, health care providers, and the law would transform the role of the Health Insurance Office into an active buyer. This bill therefore lacks only some political decisions to be taken on the coalition. Political will would, for example, decide on the limitation after the time and the amount of the compensation for the period of disability due to illness, the policy would decide on how to manage and manage the Institute of Health Insurance and the policy should agree on the most sensitive part of the law, this is a possible overflight of the basket of rights. In front of the beach, the criticism that will follow now and all the time until the creation of a new government, let me just say that if you are looking for similarity in the law with the proposed changes years ago, you will certainly find them. The laws are written by professional professionals, as changes must be professional in the first place and for most changes should not be important to who and whose Minister of Health is. We have a very similar story in the law on long-term care. Here too is the law on long-term care. This one, too, is mostly ready, and some things have already been written here. This is a necessary law where we introduce a new system and in the coming weeks we would discuss it in coalitions, then in the Economic and Social Council and in public debate. This week we have coordinated matters with the Ministry of Labour and Method of Financing. The law will be important for all of us, as it will introduce a system of rights for all who will depend on others for injuries, age, diseases, weaknesses over a longer period of time. Here too we should focus on the profession and stick together, not that an attack occurred before the hearing, especially those who had the opportunity and leverage to prepare the law. Respected and respected, I believe that the next days will be full of words, how health should be the priority of everything that we should do and what you or others will be. I hope that health care will have priority and support even when the new government is in place. Without a common desire and support, such important and sensitive changes cannot be made. I was an operating minister for exactly 10 months. During this time, we have prepared two key laws, the Long-Term Care Act, and the Health and Health Insurance Act, in addition to all the pressing matters that are really high in health care. Today you are voting only on the work of this second law, the abolition of supplementary health insurance. I can say it again, I support the withdrawal, but this has to be sustainable. The bill and the amendments are sent and the decision is yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u78	Your Honor! That the adoption of laws, which depend on the state of our health system, is of paramount importance and that a broader social consensus is needed, has just proved the Health and Health Insurance Act, which has caused a dispute between the LMŠ ministers and the collapse of the government. The proposed amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which was tabled on 25 September 2019, sought to abolish supplementary health insurance in the form we have known since 1992, but this is misleading, since it is by no means a termination, but a mandatory introduction of a flat-rate contribution, which would be made against the net salary of each insured person and instead of paying the insurance companies to the ZZZS. Due to the excessive risks to the stability of the health system and public finances, which we keep reminding in New Slovenia, the Minister of Finance Bertonzel presented a statement of resignation. This resulted in the resignation of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc. Let me remind you that the amendments of the LMŠ and SD were adopted at the meeting of the Health Committee of the mother, which has changed the contents of the law completely. A flat-rate contribution of €29 has been introduced, which already wants to increase to €32 today and will be revalued annually, which we do not have an impact on. This will mean that we do not really know how much we will pay the ZZZ if the law is passed. The proposal for a new law states among the objectives that change brings about a strengthening of the health system. Christian Democrats ask themselves in what way. We warn you, for less money, you can't get any more. More is gained in our public health system only by payment or payment from your own pocket. Unfortunately, the parties supporting this bill support privatisation, and thus greater participation in the pockets of individuals and in the payment of services. Christian Democrats believe that changing the law will make it difficult for patients to access health services because the ZZS is not a regular mercenary and is late for payment. The scope of the rights financed by the health treasury is also not tailored to the needs of the population. This is reflected in long waiting lines that no one is serious about. We will not support the law in New Slovenia, nor the amendments tabled, and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u80	Nice greetings, honourable Members and honourable Members! The new health reform has been forecasting us for many years not to say decades, but all the efforts of the governments so far have obviously not led to major changes, not in the area of financing, but not in the area of a basket of rights. The last major health reform was carried out in 1992, followed by only minor and insignificant additions to the basic law. All attempts at health reform, including those to end supplementary health insurance, have apparently failed due to complexities and conflicts of interest. Today, the health system in Slovenia is most burdened by long waiting types and financial incoherence in view of the upcoming demographic trends. The current government has listed the abolition of supplementary health insurance as a priority in the coalition agreement. So it is not true that we did this only because of the insistence of the Left. But Levica insisted on moving forward with her law, a law that showed that she was not financially sustainable and expertly qualified. They were not prepared to wait for the law to be drawn up by the Ministry in order to involve experts in its creation in order to ensure that such a detailed and important area was regulated as necessary and without jeopardising the health system. Despite the fact that the coalition was willing to give its hand and even agree to the abolition or transfer as a first step in further reform of the area, Levica decided to suspend its cooperation with the coalition. They withdrew from the cooperation agreement and all that culminated in the resignation of the Prime Minister on Monday. Nevertheless, today is before us, still to insist on the former or still existing coalition, the law, which is the first step towards ending supplementary insurance and the path to a better and fairer health system. Indeed, only transposition and introduction of a flat-rate contribution is currently envisaged, but, as the Minister has said, there are still extensive legislative bases to regulate everything that should have been regulated long ago. Sadly, this time too, it got stuck where it most often gets stuck — in financing. As it turned out, the initial calculation prepared by the LMŠ party was incoherent and would not cover all the medical cash requirements. This has led to a new calculation – €32 - which we are in the SAB party, so that the financial and health system is sustainable, ready to support. We are ready to continue to participate in the commitment we have made to the citizens – to suspend supplementary health insurance and gradually move on to a different, more sustainable and more quality system. We also asked all the time whether the system was sustainable both from a health point of view and from a financial point of view. Every Member responsible and responsible policy must take care of both, ensure that the key systems are not compromised and that the changes are such that they do not create any vague situation. I am very sorry that the resignation of the Prime Minister on Monday has prevented us from finally regulating what all Members and parties have said in the pre-election battle that two laws must be regulated, which the Minister has just said he has prepared. The first is the law we are talking about now and which would fully address the issue of the abolition of supplementary health insurance, transfer and everything else that is necessary, as the Minister has said, including a basket of rights. And the other, which we all claim together is a long - term care law. Both laws, I repeat, are ready after the Minister's assurances and it would only take some time for everyone to come to terms with the main promises we made before these elections to the electorate. In the SAB, therefore, we regret that after so many years and after so much effort, we were not ready to take the first step again. Nevertheless, we have remained committed to our commitment to all voters and we will end the supplementary insurance or transfer in the first phase, we will also support most of the amendments, in particular those that have been coordinated, and we hope that we will all together but gather strength and courage to do something for our health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Good-bye, everybody! In the Desus Group, we will not change the opinion of the first two readings in the third reading of the proposal of the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. We are therefore still of the opinion that the proposal we have before us does not represent the right way to abolish supplementary health insurance. We are not even convinced by the amendments tabled for the third reading, which, in fact, the mandatory flat-rate contribution, such as supplementary health insurance, should be named after the new, even higher, from 29 euros to 32 instead of fixing it to a more solidarity. Throughout the entire consideration of this proposal, we remind the Desus Group that the amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act cannot be done without the thought of long-term care. Because healthcare and insurance are inseparably linked to long-term care. We need to be aware that long - term care is important for each individual, not just for the elderly, because each one may find himself in a situation of need and care after illness or accident. As we have said before, we have been hearing about the long-term care law for about as long as we are hearing about the need for a comprehensive amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, as once again it is important to adopt both at the same time and to provide stable sources of funding and to prepare the Government, in the context of social dialogue with the stakeholders of both proposals. In the wake of the confusion that arises in the third reading of the bill, we in the Desus Group are extremely concerned about the consequences of this law on health bills and, last but not least, on the budget. One of the amendments tabled by the largest coalition party in the draft text of the law provides that the State budget will provide for the coverage of a financial deficit that may arise in the event of insufficient revenues from the Institute of Health Insurance and contributions from other sources. As I mentioned at the outset, we will not support the proposed amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act in the Desus Group. However, we expect the Ministry to deliver on its promises that we will soon see a comprehensive novel of the Health and Health Insurance Act and, at the same time, the Long-Term Care Act. Otherwise, due to the extensive harmonisation of the legal provisions of the two proposals, which surely await us, we could run out of time to draw up quality laws with broad social support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. For the third time, I sit on the same subject or stand behind a payphone and repeat. This proposal is one big joke. I'll tell you why. Minister, it's not long now, he said here he's got everything ready. As I said for the first time before the item was on the agenda, let's wait for the government proposal. It's true that the government is leaving, the minister is leaving, but the papers will remain. We will certainly not support this proposal with amendments in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, because we do not want to put a huge burden on the new government, which will come together immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you. Jelka Godec will postpone the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u86	The new government, however it may be, will first have to face, I think, a health reform and not a suspension, but a reshape of supplementary health insurance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome the change that will bring something to the benefit of the patients, i.e. the change, suspension or transformation of additional supplementary insurance, by really talking about public health. About public health, which is an essential activity where we have free choice of physicians, which is accessible to all regardless of the financial situation, where the public service is carried out irrespective of the founder and there is regulated funding, healthy competitiveness, a regulated health system and so on. The new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which is before us today, does not address any of these goals. The proposalr’s objective is to abolish one health insurance company alone. That's the only goal. Unfortunately for me, colleague Luke Moon, in your proposal or proposal to the Left, I don't see it. And you keep stressing that. I have asked many times, including in discussions, what would be better for the patient. That's the main question when we go to the health system. The patient at the forefront, that's what we all say, public health is what we all say, but what's better for the patient when you are or if this law is passed? Whether there will be more money or not, whether we spend more money or not, these are constant questions, the ministry has one calculation, the Levica has another calculation, the coalition has a third calculation, the health insurance company has, I don't know, a fourth calculation. Once again, what you're saying is that it's a tax that's not fair – voluntary extra health insurance is not a tax. It is not a tax, it is a voluntary insurance that you can or cannot pay, but it has become essentially mandatory for many over the years. When they gave you the calculations, it became clear that 29 euro is certainly too small to have needed a flat rate of 32 euros, and now what will happen is exactly what Levica does not want as a proponent – that we are all paying the same, that a Member with a salary of 32 euros and that a pensioner of 400 euros is paying 32 euros. That's contradictory. I agree, we can't all pay the same, let's give a progressive scale. What SD proposes is impossible because the scale is not linear and we do not get a linear line. He's holding what you're saying. Now we will all pay the same, and you will support this as a single-purpose proponent – let's call it off. Do not cancel, transform voluntary additional insurance into compulsory, into a mandatory lump sum. Maybe there won't be bills, but they'll just rip off the net salary, people won't even see. But they'll pay three times, four times. Why health care? Today, we are being privatized in a way that doctors are already alerting us to. I pay or the citizens pay health insurance, they don't come in. I'm not gonna talk about one problem right now, but you've been waiting six months for physical therapy. You can't move your shoulder for six months. Because you can't handle it, you have to pay. So you pay for insurance, contributions, you pay for privacy. What happens now? Now you will pay the compulsory insurance, you will pay the flat rate, the budget will pay the difference that will come, because due to economic cooling there will probably be fewer contributions. They're going to pay people three times! Once again, mandatory, mandatory, budget, because they have paid taxes in the budget, this is the third payment, and ultimately – waiting lines will not change because of this – he will pay for the fourth time he goes to a private doctor. He'll pay four times. Four times! Well, with this marriage, it's hard to make it better for the patients. I didn't get any answers, I asked the insurance company ZZZS, I asked the Health Association, they don't see any improvement for the patients. For the patients. Public health, which is filled with the mouth of the proponents and coalitions, is a health care that is once again accessible to all regardless of the financial situation and can be carried out within the public service irrespective of the founder. This law would be useful in the first part, as proposed, where the proposer proposed certain modifications to the basket and progressive scales. Today you are introducing the same contribution for everyone – for a low-retirement pensioner, for a Member of Parliament, for the President of the State equally. But we're gonna pay four times, and I'm stressing again. Unfortunately, this is not good for the patient. Once again, changing the health system will certainly be the task of the new government, I say again any, but in the package. More laws will have to be given in my opinion, and then it will be called reform, but not quickly, if you do, now we have one year to make a progressive scale. When we don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow, it's hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Robert Pavšič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u88	Well, hello, all of you! The essential issue of the abolition of supplementary health insurance should be substantive in the first place. We are talking about a good half billion euro of public money, i.e. citizens' and citizens' money. We must not forget that supplementary health insurance, despite its name, has become de facto compulsory. Without it, we are not entitled to health services without payment, which can have disastrous consequences for individuals. By 1999, he had even collected it from the Institute of Health Insurance and then suddenly became a market activity. Instead of health care, part of the money collected began to be earmarked for the profits of commercial insurance companies. The issue of the abolition of supplementary health insurance has become a first-class political and ideological issue in recent years. If our priority is concern for human health, the following question logically follows: why should private caregivers make mandatory contributions? What added value does this arrangement represent? Not only because of the profit issue in 2018 alone, the negative result was 480 million, but citizens and citizens have paid 550 million in supplementary insurance, but in particular the purpose of this money, each cent of public money from this title must be devoted to health and health, and private insurance companies can market insurance products to provide a superstandard. The Act of Supplements, as we have before us today, ensures the same extent of rights in the health basket, which was also a key condition for LMŠ – that the basket of rights will not be reduced. However, people will pay a little less than they are paying now, while at the same time their money will be spent on what it is actually intended for – health care. Let us therefore focus on the underlying political dilemma. Can Members look beyond the stakeholders and actually focus on the key issue? Are we in favour of direct payment of money to citizens and citizens exclusively for health care, or are we against it? Today, we will listen to many reasons why we may not support this marriage. We will hear evidence that it does not bring about changes in the system, that we will pay almost as much as we have so far, that it does not shorten waiting lines, that it is not financially sustainable and much alike. These concerns and the obvious are superfluous. According to the calculation of the Ministry of Finance, the mandatory flat-rate contribution of €32 guarantees the public financial sustainability of the health treasury. The novelty also provides for the annual harmonisation of the mandatory flat-rate contribution with the growth of the average gross salary. Thus, the role of the budget in this novel is only an extreme safeguard for unforeseen situations. Who will take care of people in times of crisis if not a country based on solidarity? There's also too much concern that it's some kind of blank idea that the institution will be spending money, as it seems. In doing so, they have a key role and word of government and the National Assembly, with a general agreement and a decision on the financial framework of the sector of the State, setting maximum funding for all four cash registers. Because of all of this, we will complement the contributions we have made, of course, we will support them. We follow with them the proposals prepared by the lawmaker, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. These supplements make the law practical. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, any vote against any of our amendments will be understood as a vote against the abolition of supplementary health insurance. There is an opportunity for us to turn at least 16 years of promise into action and thus take a key step towards ending supplementary health insurance at all. This will also lay good foundations and facilitate the introduction of a solidarity scale that has never been questioned for LMŠ. If we do not do so, we will be back at the beginning when any attempt to upgrade the system will in the future put an end to only the basic issue, the issue of the abolition of supplementary insurance. Today we have Members before us in practice a enforceable law, as is political will, and we will see it very soon. Will we be able to take a step for the good of the people this time, or will some majority, with excuses, again protect some other interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Vice President, again for your word. It would be expected that today's day for Slovenian health care will be broken when we have on parliamentary benches after all the years of debate, desire and all the final proposals that have been said to eliminate supplementary health insurance for the sake of people who rightly expect something to finally move towards better. Health care was one of the priorities of this, now outgoing, government. I believe that all the next ones, however they may be, will have to focus their greatest focus on changes in the field of Slovenian health. For our citizens and citizens expect more than justifiably root action. For too long they have asked for help, including politics, Members of Parliament, the Secretariat Ministry, the whole government, to finally begin with the necessary changes, such that people will no longer wait unreasonablely for a diagnosis, intervention or treatment to have all quality access to a doctor, but of course that there will be no more profits at the expense of health. In short, our people's health is at the mercy of the interests of capital. However, I believe we are well aware that there are no magic wands for all the accumulated health problems. There is only a hard way in which, unfortunately, many governments, more ministers have already come, and I am not surprised that we are increasingly asking ourselves what and who are those who do not want the necessary changes to come and that we will finally be able to talk not only about the problems but about the solutions. One key, we believe, is the abolition of supplementary health insurance. Social Democrats have been warning for years that this is one of the biggest anomalies in our health system, which needs to be eliminated or transformed, not by making a hook at the promise given, but by the benefit of patients, and by the pressures of insurance companies that have a key worry about profit. Much has been said about all the positive reasons for this measure. In fact, at this point, while agreeing that such a form of insurance needs to be changed, there is nothing more to add. To this end, we have also been united in the coalition, but we may have underestimated the issue of how, if I say, a key step forward, how to replace supplementary health insurance in a way that, not only on paper, will serve our citizens and citizens. There was no need for a breakthrough, despite weeks of or months of coalition talks. Despite all this confusion, we have persisted, and we insist today that supplementary health insurance must be replaced by a just, solidarity and sustainable system. In doing so, let us recall that during the previous term, together with the then coalition and Levico, we adopted the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 “Common for the Society of Health”, where we have determined that Slovenian health will be regulated in a fair, solidarity and financially sustainable manner. Unfortunately, the bill that we have on the table today only partially follows this commitment. It's missing that point. Therefore, I should once again call on Members and Members, already because of the political situation that has arisen when we have a government in retreat, when there is no longer any resistance or guarantee that after the adoption of this law there will be a necessary change to the second step, i.e. the adoption of the solidarity scale to support our amendment. The amendment, after which a million 440 thousand people, of more than a million 500, would pay significantly less than they are paying now. So the most basic solidarity paradigm follows – those who have more should pay more than those who have less. Therefore, a renewed call, because I believe that the first gruesome debate has already calmed down when some of our amendments have begun to be interpreted as an alibi for the Social Democrats, that we will end up against this law. Of course it doesn't. Let me therefore repeat once more, once again, we are the Social Democrats for the abolition of supplementary health insurance and we will support the law today. Because we believe that now is the crucial moment and the opportunity to do without calculations, which is the only right thing to do — to end supplementary health insurance. I believe, however, that we also have the maturity and wisdom to make a decision to replace insurance with solidarity, with a fair and financially sustainable scale. This will also prove that we can take the right steps in a uncertain political situation, not just in words. Not for politics and not for her calculations, but for the good of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Vice President. I am sure that 46 Members are plus for the abolition of supplementary health insurance, and this is indisputable. This was enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, and not least some parties that did not commit to the Coalition Treaty made it very clear. But the devil is in detail. Everyone imagines it their own way, but it's their own way. Some would like to abolish supplementary health insurance because they are convinced that insurance must be completed, others because they want to set up a comprehensive system, including health care, third keep insurance and supplementary health insurance in life because they believe that it is a window to continue to privatise the health system. Who's who and who's fit, I'm not even gonna identify today because it doesn't even matter anymore. There's something else that matters. Let someone explain to me the mathematics that I don't understand, and that is that if someone has a profit of 50 million – but it doesn't, it's 50 million where we're talking about those funds that go into directing and not in health programs – and if we say that this is a profit, it's significantly smaller, a million, 4 million, practically close to two, I can say that I don't understand how it's going to be if we take all this money to the health department, and we're going to have to open the budget door harder to make it cost-effective, but if we don't have to do it now. Of course, they'll all meet right away and they'll scream out loud about insurance and I don't know what else. Once again, I am very clear and will also analyse this very carefully in the debate: we do not support supplementary health insurance in the SMC and we have made this very clear. Last but not least, in the previous term, the minister drafted the law and brought it to the same point as the current minister when the government fell. Exactly the same, for one reason – because someone was holding a fig in their pocket. And it is those who today shout that they are in favour of the abolition of supplementary health insurance, and know that they will vote, and know that it will not be voted on. Why? Because people need to continue to lie that we will end supplementary health insurance when we all know that this is not the case, because in reality we will just bear this duty and only take the same person out of the second pocket. To rename it and then to finance it further. This is a perverted act. Those who are convinced that there is a need to shut down and change the health system in pieces are entering a dangerous field. This happened to us — and we recognize it out loud — when we naively supported the Personal Assistance Act, telling us how we will change the long-term care law and fix it there, settle all rights under the title of personal assistant. No! No! It's been a few years, and this marriage is still gone, and we have an extraordinary session to discuss how irregularities happen there. And we all know that this government will not actually be able to do this in its waiting for elections, because the Legislative and Legal Service has already made clear what can and cannot be done. As for all the hints I've heard in the last two or three days, from Monday onwards, that this is a prediction of a new coalition, and I don't know what else, but in a message to all the omnisciences and confessions, analysts and acquaintances, as they call themselves, who know in advance how some thing is going to happen: this is not a prediction. Because if that's the case, then the SDS would have been in coalition with Levica a long time ago. Because we have seen these events repeatedly, how they voted. Of course, there is one clear message: Every government, if it does not resolve this issue, awaits the same event as the last two governments – early elections. The SMC will not support this proposal because it does not support such a rotten compromise for the price of new electoral votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u94	For more than 16 years, middle parties have submitted themselves to elections with the same promises – that supplementary health insurance will be abolished. But the Left is the first political force in the history of this country to mean serious damage by abolishing supplementary insurance. We are the only ones who have formed a comprehensive, fair and solidarity transfer of supplementary insurance to the compulsory, brought it to the National Assembly and finally given you, the customers in the middle, the opportunity to do what you have been promising for over 16 years. Two months ago, you were challenged for the first time by all the parties in the National Assembly to show by your actions whose interests you are working for. Will you support the proposal of the Left and the unfair position paid equally by the pensioner with 500 euros of pension and the manager with 5,000 euros of salary, end or support the commercial insurance companies that each year spend 50 million of the funds of all insurers in their own pockets? As the waiting years and chronic shortages of nurses show, these funds are still needed if citizens are not given more appropriate medical care than they are currently receiving. There was no dilemma for the right hand with SDS and NSI. Without a press conference, they stood up for the interests of the medical and insurance lobby. She gambled in the middle. Because of the desire to keep your face in front of the people of the Left initiative, you couldn't just say no, you wouldn't have stopped the black supplementary insurance, not really. That's why you sabotaged it according to a form that citizens have been able to follow for two decades, with typical liberal hypocrisy pointing to us socialists. The pressure and weight that we threw for the solidarity transfer of supplementary insurance to the mandatory level in Levica gave birth to at least a few fruits. It has forced the coalition to maintain an additional state insurance in a desperate attempt to keep the facade from the public if it already preserves the unfairness of the system and does not suspend the supplementary insurance. The new public tax retains supplementary insurance under another name and means double administration, double work and double costs. One for handling with compulsory, the other for handling with supplementary insurance. However, there is one great advantage, the health insurance of the market from the clutches of commercial insurance companies. And that's why these insurance companies, based on insurance money, have launched a lobbyist and pear campaign, as we've never seen before, and that's why today's vote is so damn important. Nationalisation of supplementary insurance cuts the cord between our payments and the profits of insurance companies. Once this cord is cut once, if it is cut, then of course the lobbying sheet will also be more modest and complete transfer of supplementary insurance into a mandatory slightly easier political project. We will be counting on this issue in today's vote. Solidar termination of supplementary insurance is no longer on the table, as you sunk it, ladies and gentlemen. It is only open to where the money of the citizens from the bill should go – to the profits of insurance companies or to public health care. We're in Levica for public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 January 2020. First, he asked for the word of his proposaler, Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u96	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! Allow me to comment a little bit on what has been said and heard in my views. First, I'd start with what Jelko Godec pointed out. She said: "Public health is one that is accessible to all regardless of their social and material situation." I can absolutely agree with this conclusion, but I cannot agree with its second part, with its second point, when it said that voluntary health insurance is not a tax. She made a mistake here twice. First, this insurance is not voluntary, and secondly, this insurance is precisely because it is not voluntary. In fact, if you don't pay for this insurance if the social and material situation doesn't allow you to pay 35 euros a month, you can't go to a doctor without payment. Therefore, after all international scales measuring the solidarity of health systems according to how we contribute to them, we are classified as bad, somewhere in about 80th place, precisely because of supplementary health insurance, which is tax and not voluntary. Secondly, Jani Möderndorfer said that more than 46 MEPs in this Parliament agree to abolish supplementary health insurance, but that each one can imagine it in his own way. I'd answer that like this. I think that even more than 46 Members agree with the abolition. If each person were to be asked only if you agree to terminate or not, they would probably get a constitutional majority to terminate this insurance, not only in this call of the National Assembly, but also in a number of previous ones. The devil is, as Jani says, in detail, but the devil is that these details have already been defined in the coalition contract. In fact, it says very clearly: “Additional health insurance will be discontinued and transferred to compulsory health insurance when the same level of rights is maintained.” Pika. In short, it was all in the coalition contract. And this is what the basic law we have drawn up in Levica has made possible, the same level of rights, the transfer to compulsory health insurance. That's what we agreed on, that was determined. But, of course, the devil is not in the details, the devil is that when insurance is to be lifted, the interests of insurance companies begin to speak through Members, they begin to speak through Members other interests than the public interest they are supposed to represent in the National Assembly. Therefore, for 16 years this withdrawal has been on the table and for 16 years we have been monitoring this calvary. And obviously we will continue to do so, because today, if I add up the votes a little bit, I think we are no longer so close that the matter will be accepted if, of course, someone in the debate does not change their minds. Of course, you can say, because we have also heard in the halls that a lot of lobbyists have walked through the National Assembly, that Members have not finally been urged not to participate in the vote, those Members of the parliamentary groups who are inclined to withdraw, and so on. In short, tell me what's really bothering you. I don't think it's that vague detail, it's been agreed long ago, but there are other things behind today's opposition. Third time. I would also like to highlight these recommendations on health reform, what this will mean for the patient and so on. I stress what I have pointed out in my position: the abolition of supplementary health insurance is not a health reform. It's not really a question of what Jelko asked herself, what would be better for the patient then, the real question is, what would be better for the payer? For a payer who has to pay additional health insurance to be able to go to a doctor. That'll be better. This will be better if, after today's abolition or today's removal of insurance companies and major lobbyists from the system, we also adopt a solidarity scale to make a contribution, depending on our abilities and not flat-rately the same, no matter how much it earns, whether it earns 500 or 5,000 euros. That's a key question. What will be better for the payer, how health care will therefore be more accessible to those with low incomes, is the main issue. In short, this is primarily a social measure, but it is not a health reform. We need health reform, we absolutely agree with it, but of course, here is the question of what, because we have a lot of ideological differences. We believe that it is necessary to cut off amphibians from the system, we believe that a central public procurement system needs to be set up to reduce fees and dissuasion by suppliers, but some others advocate the privatisation of health care as a way to greater accessibility, which we believe is contradictory. It is interesting, however, that the party that is going the most in this direction, the privatisation of health care, namely NSI, at the end of its position, expressed one very dangerous thing, namely, it was said, I quote: “The extent of rights in health is not adapted to the needs of the population and the consequences are a long waiting line.” I repeat: the scope of rights is not tailored to the needs of the population, and the result is a long waiting line. How, then, would we put an end to the long line of waiting? By violating the rights. Would they all be the same then? They probably wouldn't be anymore. And this is the way we can't go, and I think it's one of the most dangerous things right now. Former Minister Cufer said that privatisation of state-owned enterprises is just the beginning, real privatisation begins with privatization of services such as health care. The money there is 3 billion plus, and it's going to be more and more. I think it is the task of all of us to prevent private capital from entering this system, starting with the removal of the substitute, these are commercial insurance companies that are collecting supplementary health insurance today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate on the articles in the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I see there's a lot of interest, please. First he gets the word Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! I agree with Janni that everyone thinks his own way, because I, with my second head as my own, cannot think, and also in Article 82 of the Constitution, in the first indent, this is written down. This is the task of parliamentarians in any parliamentary system within the constitutional parliamentary democracy. Second of all, not so fast. I mean, we live in a society where Speedy Gonzales is a snail against us together. The second track — how long have we been building it? If we look inside Europe, but globally, this is not such a difficult matter. Not that either. Especially now that you've cut off our solidarity. You know, not the last time they worked together, they wrote each other. It's a mutual monument to solidarity. According to this logic, this tax, as Luke said, should be on a scale that is not necessarily at a 45-degree angle, if I understand your colleague Jelko correctly. Don't underestimate people. People won't know how much they're getting out of their salary – so come on, stop having people as fools, whoever's talking. Next. The healthcare system is not limited to patients. The healthcare system is a whole range of professions that operate in it, and we have the Ministry of Health. Unfortunately for me – this mandate is coming to an end – I will say this – that even the unions were not madly inclined to open up the issue of occupational diseases with Levica. You know, that's something to talk about. This story, after all, the Left is something – it was a coalition agreement that Luka read, it was an agreement with the Coalition to prepare us to work on it. Some of our people didn't have any vacations for this. We were 90 percent off at that meeting where the finance secretary said, if I remember correctly, ah, because this is where we serve Levica. Jania was almost taken out of the office. It's a rotten compromise, Comrade Jani, isn't it? You were in charge of this compromise on the side of the coalition – then you are the key part of this case. Karma's a bitch, yeah. You know, then, in this story, like she's doing right now – Sonia and I talked about it, I hope you don't mind me – big calculations of the guy will say, yes, it would cost 9 million, on the other hand, they'll be screaming that this country is going to go bankrupt so stop making a fool of yourself! [[…]] It's like a debate about whether I have a refrigerator or I have razor blades to cut. What kind of politics do we go to?Oh, my God! This matter would be solved by that pub I met in Norway at the Ministry of Finance, which worked for half a year at the Ministry. What's on the table right now. Then there comes the Secretary of State from finance, which has now co-signed, and the language of coordination shows us. These are things that need to be done with people like that. Civil servants, after all, are us. In JNA, they'd say we serve the people. It's not like we're having an affair. In a society that has little reason to have 50 billion GDP, the problem is 50 million and some interests. And I'm not going to do that math now. After all, you know, this change needs to be made – even if I take your word for it, Jani, as far as the costs of not profit are concerned – purely at the level of the green plant, which is very promoted by SMC. Because then it is a mutual and similarly very bad diesel compared to the ZZS. He spends too much, cost too much. Four times more, according to some calculations. That's why. Of course, more money is needed in Slovenian public health, we are below 8%, we are not at about 10% where we should be. All good health systems should not go beyond 12% of their own pocket. Go to WHO or read something. These are serious analyses. Who are the key players at the level of patients in Slovenian public health care? People from 1938 to the year of my mother, and in short, 70 more years, and those bonds in between. Also, what are we talking about — what are our pensions? Let's stop fooling around. Germany is not such a rich society – you know, if you were reading an interview with Dr. Trumpub – that people would pay some overtime. 20% of them have so many pennies. What the hell is wrong with us? Bringing the basket to the National Assembly — Let’s stop blinding ourselves. We have a meeting of Slovenian public health, which has people for half of the National Assembly. The ESS story doesn't go down either. That's where you have literally the exact same composition. We agree here that it's huge to say about the health insurance company. Not now for long and wide bluffing. I don't know, maybe someone can honestly say that today, I don't know, but Black guy's calling him with what he's threatened. Let's talk. Unfortunately, we live in a society where there is a big problem at the state level of 100,000 euros, there are 10,000 euros in the city's municipalities, in the common congregation, not in the city, but there is a jury who will save it. We have to move out of this situation and, unfortunately, Sarec has not become a new policy here. I'm glad the Social Democrats are waking up a little bit. Maybe they'll just slowly realize that some social democracy that found itself is in those societies where it works with the new Left. What is now on the table here is literally a relatively simple one from a poor diesel to a hybrid solution, if I so express myself, because you do not use public passenger transport as I do, which makes it more difficult to say good-bye than a Member's mandate, especially if you have a car that is too expensive for leasing. There's nothing so crazy complicated, there's no such thing as a quick one, and that's why the world won't collapse. And just for the end. The outgoing minister, with whom I have worked properly as chairman of the committee – we are also preparing. I'm watching an interview yesterday with the main unionist and the ladies in the chamber. Yeah, then let's call off the National Assembly! Parliament is the place where laws are adopted. And what have many begun to interfere? Yes, what usually happens in countries with a tradition of minority governments – an emerging case in Europe is Denmark – that, of course, marriage material is dealt with in parliaments, that parliaments are not something to almost get on the right button. These are all stories, everything else we've told a hundred times, Parliament is not mills, currently crossing the National Assembly is such that more than 45 of us 90 are sold for 40, 50 million. Pika. But no one is that stupid — from the one who comes out of the diaper to the one who needs diapers again — to the one who needs diapers too little — so that he does not understand it. And that's it for a while. But now we can have another 27 hours on this, and I won't be doing it anymore. Be smart enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, chairman. Let me begin by stressing once again that both the SAB party and I will personally support this bill in today's vote. They supported, despite the fact that it is the law of the Left and that we all seriously believe together that the changes, the major changes in the most important systems that we have in our country, do not work with parliamentary laws, because things are simply too complex, have too many consequences, have too many stakeholders involved. Every serious country makes such changes through the government. The government has its own experts, the government has the opportunity to obtain different opinions from Europe, insights into different statistics, all live, but not that the health system reforms are carried out by Members. In principle, I'm personally against it. I'm not talking about a smaller law, a smaller change, but the reform of the health system is supposed to be something that the government is doing. That's for starters. What is our situation now, and how did we come to it? Mr Mesec has read the text of the coalition treaty, which our party has also signed. Yes, we have committed ourselves to suspending or correcting supplementary health insurance. That's what I'm still behind. Me and our client are behind what the coalition contract says, and we believe that what we have promised people must be done. That's why we're gonna do it. But the party Left, who is proposing this law – so I am turning to you – did not want to wait for this reform or at least this change, which is one of the key laws in health, to be changed, the government came, even though it was all the time claimed that this law was being prepared. No, they pushed us, forced us – say Bob Bob, one of them likes it – that we all go together to change this law. Back then, some of my coalition colleagues say, "Yes, you know, we made a mistake when we started talking to Levica, we shouldn't have waited for our marriage." Yeah, but did you forget two months ago? The whole time, Levi said that if we didn't change this law, she'd get out of the coalition. And then she got out anyway, and then everything happened. So we didn't have any other options. Personally, now I can only speak for myself, I have cooperated in this process with good faith and with the best intention to do at least one thing. Because I'm nervous, too, and I haven't been part of a policy for a long time that there's never anything to be done. For 16 years, nothing can be changed! Nothing! A basket is needed, and the ZZZ is required, and the congregation is required, and I don’t know what — no, let’s take the first step! Let's do a transmission, a shut-down, and force the systems, including the ministry, so that it has to do all the following. That's why I'm still on this train, so I'm here and I'm gonna squeeze in today, because the first step is just to do it. With the first step, you cut off a large group of interests, financial interests, for their legitimate interests, which they do not want. And then you have an essentially small front open. Unfortunately, however, in this process it has been shown that the proposals proposed by Levica in terms of a broader solution to this problem in this law were not financially sustainable – at least that is what ministry experts have told us. It's like I trust my government experts, I can't. And when they tell me, it's not sustainable, it's going to collapse the health system – I don't know, I'm not here to do any damage, and that's for sure not. And then we sat down in the coalition and we said, let's give left hand, let's continue to insist on this withdrawal, let's put the amendments that will remain out, all that is necessary professionally to make this transfer sustainable and professionally supported, will be done by the minister and we will force him to go into liquidation. And that is what we have done with the amendments prepared by the LMŠ, also in a serious desire to force the system, the ministry, the government to take the first step and that the second step will have to follow. The minister said he had a second step ready and that he had prepared a comprehensive amendment to the law, which would also regulate everything else, which he said was absolutely necessary. Then they started to get involved. I don't know who bribed someone or didn't, or sometimes I ask myself, I've never been asked in my life whether they had any bribes or if they were willing to do anything – of course I'd say no, clearly, but they also ask me no – so I don't know where all those bribers you see are and where all those who let themselves be bribed. I don't know. But of course, as this process went on, the key question remained all the time whether this method was now sustainable. And once again, as an MP, I have no choice but to say: Minister of Health, Minister of Finance, are we threatening the health system, or are we threatening the budget? If not, let's go for it. Let's take the first step, and 99 more will follow. Unfortunately, we do not have this compromise because of the government's resignation, but it was available to me. As a mediator, I was willing to cooperate with him and work for him. We could also assess what the cap should be when it reaches the budget. I understand the Minister of Finance that he can't give up a dime so he can suddenly release everything in the healthcare system. I don't know what else the Members are going to make up and the budget will be half empty for the sake of health. Whatever health care is important, it can't afford it. In some compromise, everyone could also find a cap in this article, and how sustainable it is to burden the budget that there is a guardian for this law. Now, unfortunately, all this is delayed, the Prime Minister has resigned, these things will not continue now. The Minister says that he also has a long-term care law ready, and we should necessarily accept it, and we will not and nothing will be done again. It's frustrating so I can't tell you. Even the first step, obviously, based on the votes, will not be taken. That's the way it is with all things. There are so many complications, nothing can be done, and then everything gets complicated and then someone solves something lazi and then we make it even more complicated than it needs to be. But for the end, it doesn't matter. It is very important that we be very careful about what we do and how we do it. Our health system isn't bad, nobody's gonna tell me that. He's got problems, he's got too few doctors right now, he's got a waiting line, and the question is, how many people are still in two or three waiting lines, because no one's checking it out, but they're not serious problems. We still have quality public health. We could take the first important step to start solving this problem, as well as other problems. However, if some do not want to change or talk about a basket of rights, or contributions, or something else, or say, all that is missing is one group of people, and then for us the problem is that we need to always seek balance and represent all layers of the population. As we say, most of the amendments will be supported and I will support them and we will also support the law and, I hope, take a step against all those who hope to do so, also support the ministers of law. Because then this is the next step, and otherwise we all stayed together in an empty space that is neither good for the country nor for the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Duck has apparently changed his mind. You have the word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, since we don't eat parsen in the National Assembly, which is supposed to help against oblivion, I repeat this one last time. The deal with the coalition made possible by Levi — which I am sorry for today — was to prepare this law. If you've gone along with the parallelism that the minister has been pursuing something in his own way, it's your irresponsible policy. Another time. The Member or Member shall have methodical doubts on each matter, including its own. Of course, he must accept the difficulty of making decisions. In this we are different Members. One literally falls from exhaustion together, and when we end up in the E.R., the other listens to the experts. Being a serious Member or Member is the same as sailing in the Olympic Finn class because after 30 minutes you fall together. I've seen very few such Members and Members in six years, but I've seen a lot of bluffs, that's true. At this point, we're different. In fact, in Slovenia a number of stories called customers are not even customers. Gara is at Janša, stationed in Levica, and is busy in Novi Slovenije, I must say, SD is waking up a little while the rest – hm. Which was also seen at some of those consultations. We also have very gruesome debates on health in Levica, and we do not all share the same opinion. We had one like that yesterday, it almost exploded. But that's how serious politics is done. Why did this government fall in part? Yes, because politics has returned to Parliament, because it is no longer through some sub-law, through someone who has settled down, I don't know when, through the ministries, something has gone wrong. That's the problem, that's the schizophrenicity, as some Mrs. Sonja would say, that's the blueness that bothers her, but it's not the true color of a rainbow as it is. People should finally ask themselves who can go public using their minds, of course, with very diverse interests. This is where I respect Jani because he knows these things without a dilemma. And, of course, someone who some experts will tell him something. Yes, being a parliamentarian is a frantic laziness in which you have to lean on a whole range of things. As Chairman of the Health Committee for the first half of the year, I haven't opened my mouth, because you have to understand – 4 billion, what is this, what is going on? We must also ask ourselves once whether someone, with all due respect, with the difficulty of being mayor [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u103	Comrade Runk, time for the replica has run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u104	I'm done. Comes from 20 million to 10 billion. That's a crazy big difference.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u105	Mr. Trček, I ask you to respect the rules of procedure!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u106	I'm done. But not to spread the darkness and lie! It is basically a very simple transfer in a Parliament if [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u107	Mr. Ducky, a reminder!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u108	There'd be a little more brain. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you. For disobedience. The next one has the word Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues! Now I don't know what point we're at. All this is happening now is essentially one pre-election campaign, although the elections have not yet been declared, so that the philosophy of various things, according to my assessment of this point, is not appropriate. The fact is that health care in Slovenia is a market commodity. The market goods around which the brokers gather are well paid because things are going as they are. I agree here with Mr Trčko that the health system is not just patients. Far from that, the health system is a complex and big problem as far as it goes. It is also a fact that the CFSP receives funds, if missing, from the budget, without any analysis of needs, distribution after what is necessary, what is not necessary. Only millions and millions are always given, and no one knows where all these millions go. I think the health problem is a poor health organization. The fact is that health care in Slovenia is not well organised. Over and over again, holes in this health care system, that's insane. The calculations made by the Minister of Finance in the event of the abolition of the supplementary health insurance provide for a simulation of 40 million, even more next year. All right, what is it now?Oh, my God! Insurance companies that are doing this now are making profits! And where do these profits go? In private pockets of insurance companies. Otherwise, we'd go to the Department of Health Insurance. And I'm still missing $40 million! Well, that's amazing. Look, I know from our cases that with good organization, with good hospital managers, the hospital can act positively. An example of an autumn hospital. Otherwise, the director is now the director of the clinical centre in Ljubljana, where I think he will do his job, to flatter things there, in his own words. He made a profit with the hospital, which is envious in this Slovenian space. It is said that new and new resources are not always needed. Do we even know how many funds have already been put into this health care? On the other hand, nurses in hospitals are guaranteed personal incomes, which are poorly paid. On the other hand, I don't know, the ventricles cost five times more than in the neighbouring country, because the mussels walk around. And here it actually seems that there is also corruption – there can be no other way – and that the state also gives money from the budget to pay for corruption. That's unacceptable! That's unacceptable. Believe me, if good health reform is not done, then we will not be able to achieve this, that we will not always have to look for new and new resources. Of course, health care is the basic value of every person and the fact is that when we start talking about health care, we're all in favour because everyone thinks of themselves, and that's normal. When we get sick, we know it, but we don't. Before that, we put new and new resources into the pit without the bottom. I don't see why this supplementary health insurance wouldn't stop. Once again, profits are generated in insurance companies. Someone again at the expense of health, at the expense of human value. And it'll always be too little money, always. Order must be made here – at the top of hospitals that provide services to citizens and citizens. It seems very, I will say, unfortunate that we are opening a debate on this subject that the Prime Minister has resigned. He just gave up, but you know, he just gave up. I know it's not the coalition's fault. Far from it, the coalition worked. The coalition worked, all the laws went through the coalition and did not speak, the Prime Minister, that the coalition was now guilty that it had to resign with only 13 Members. Then how many will he have?Oh, my God! Do you think it'll be any different? Everything will get mixed up and eventually the result will be the same. Finally, let me say that I will uphold the law because I am tired of breaking good laws, even from the opposition. This is not good for this country. It is necessary to seek compromises, to talk and to seek the best solution for citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word is Jerco Korca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Vice President. But in a year and a half, since I've been in the National Assembly, I've learned a lot. Before I got in, I thought some things, today I understand these things, and I see that the reality of some old policy, and I can see why we haven't stopped it for 16 years – it's not working. When they put pressure on such and other things, some part of the old policy or some politicians who are more susceptible to pressure remove it and then start looking for rhetorical excuses why they won't support it. We have witnessed this practically from the beginning. Let's go in a row, considering I've been following this from the start. It is true that Levi and I have agreed, indeed, that the Left has prepared a proposal, and it is also true that there have been strong objections to this proposal within the coalition. At the time, perhaps I thought that these were conceptual objections and that we would be looking for a compromise on some other option to abolish and reshape supplementary health insurance, today I understand that that was not the case. When this thing with Levica fell into the water, virtually all the political parties of the coalition were quick in front of the cameras and spoke, of course, we are in favour of lifting, we all agree, we are in favour of lifting, we are in favour of public interest. At that moment it became clear to me that we can go forward with this, obviously the consensus in the coalition is, and in the LMŠ we may have politically tactfully calculated that we are going to take steps, that the first step is to cut off the lobby, cut off the insurance companies, spill this money into the public system and then move on with the second and third steps. No matter what government we take, we have taken one strong step, we have cut off certain lobbies that are emerging, and whoever the health minister is, after 16 years, we could deal with all the other things that must be closed in a system-wide and comprehensive law. In fact, the situation was that everyone thought this matter would not work until not so long ago when the premium was raised due to the calculations they had prepared at the Ministry. I know that a certain part of the policy knew that the matter would fall because the Left would not support it. The Left politically tactfully understood what was going on and also went in favour of this compromise. This is the real situation that happens with the termination of health insurance. As far as the budget is concerned. Transparent, very clear excuse for me, which has come to the table recently. Because if anything, no one's gonna convince me of some fiscal sustainability, some kind of fiscal sustainability that sounds so good in the media. Because what is the budget other than a political agreement, where will we direct our money? Political agreement is that. It's a professional part. For fiscal sustainability and all this, we can say that some professional part of the official work at the Ministry of Finance is to ensure that the budget is properly implemented, not least to say how much inflows from individual excise duties, VAT and so on. Everything else, where this money is going, is, my dears, a political decision, it can't be any different. And a political decision would also be how much money we would channel into the health system. It's also a political decision to buy eight-wheelers. These are all policy decisions. So that's a clear excuse for me. It's even more transparent because, like my friend Duck said nicely, it's purely basic, every man I think he understands what we're doing – we're taking it from one pocket where the money is pouring, and we're putting it in another pocket. We're not doing anything else. No heavy matter is abolishing health insurance. I have already asked my colleagues in Desus how to systematically and comprehensively abolish health insurance, what is systemic and comprehensive about what we are doing today. Because we are doing absolutely nothing but deciding that commercial insurance companies will no longer do this and we will be pouring this money into the public health system. I don't even see where public financial sustainability is lost in the middle of this. I don't know. I don't seem to understand it yet. If my colleagues have any other arguments, maybe my colleague Jani will explain to me how it is. We have entered only the emergency guard, with the calculations of the Ministry of Finance indicating that there will be 40 million more in the first year, not insurance. 40 million more inflows. A piece of cake taken by commercial insurance companies today is put into the public health system, which I think should have happened at least 10 years ago. Perhaps today I understand that some ministers have had some sincere intentions and have made an effort to do so, and some fate of such intense pressures has beenfalling them here. We are doing that health insurance in 2012 was 28 euros, today we have it on 35 euros, insurance companies have already announced withdrawals. It is clear to everyone that the rise will happen again. And we do this, no matter how many euros, people will pay less, and this is the first step. Yes, unfortunately, everyone will pay the same, but we sincerely believe that policy will achieve consensus around the solidarity scale, any way that we can sit at the table, compromise around solidarity and move on with this. This first step is still important for this part to finally be cut off. There is a lot of talk about health reform. The abolition of supplementary health insurance is no reform, so our health care will not be any better, except in this segment that more money will be there. Today, however, the question is what kind of signal this policy will give us, how we imagine a health system. By strengthening the growth of the private sector, which commercial insurance companies are, or by channelling finance into the public health system, this is a question. And that's a conceptual question. Today, talking about a thousand and one excuse is funny and clear. I think that citizens and citizens also notice that all the excuses given on the table are very clear. I'm also interested in an explanation of who financed it when insurance companies didn't pay enough services to hospitals and we had intervention laws. Who was covering this? The Gulka from Rovt or the state budget? Where was the security guard, but it wasn't written in the marriage? I hope there will be enough votes today, or I doubt what you've said there will be. In fact, I am saddened that politics has fallen to such a low level that it is looking for some clear excuses for one small step, such as cutting off a piece of cake to commercial insurance companies, putting it in the public health system and we can talk further. Not to talk about health reform, because the word reform is often used; reform for me means destroying the existing system, turning it upside down and going into a different system. I think we should talk about having a good system, which has been well placed, but it needs a number of improvements, upgrades and policy decisions to work on two segments. The first is that we will have to channel more public money into this system to see that directing more public money gives multiple effects, fewer sick people, better citizens' health and all those things that affect other segments of society. And the other thing is that those who are responsible for the organisation are those who run health institutions, take responsibility and put the system into operation in their institution; because neither Parliament nor any government can do so. Here they must take responsibility for those who run institutions to organise work in such a way that people come faster to services so that we have a more optimal organisation. I hope and I believe that this fight that we've been fighting for several months will bear fruit. If they're not, it's really sad, and for me, one pretty interesting school, how much of a misdirection can take place on such a minor matter as to tolerate only where a person gets a position that will be less than 3 euros at this point. In the future, when insurance companies raise, this will be even higher. If such a small matter is at stake, then it is clear that there are other things this policy, which is an old policy for me, will not be able to do. Because if people change their minds so quickly, from the moment they step in front of the cameras they say, "We're about to shut down; then they sleep a few nights, make some calls. I don't know what's happening to these people, that's sad. I get calls, e-mails, and so on, too, but be serious if you've come to this Parliament to be moved by every call, every letter moves you, then it's sad. And unfortunately, for me, there are politicians with no basic spine to know that we are here to defend the public interest, that we have our backs and that we are going this way. Not by succumbing to any lobby that wakes up and may finance an article in a newspaper. Sometimes you just have to suppress your egocentricism, take some kind of attack, lift your spine and stand behind what you think. And I was never afraid of it, because I don't really care, once again, where I'll be in a year. But I wanted to know if I did something good this year and a half or four years later, and I got into my bed and said, "Yes, I wasn't working for Jerca Korca, I was working because I thought something was right for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u114	Thank you very much. It was expected, even at the beginning, I told about how this discussion was going to proceed; and so it is. It is interesting that some explain that this is already a pre-election discussion, and then they themselves discuss, as if they are already in a pre-election discussion, and agree to this discourse, which is somehow imposed. I'll take my turn. I heard what we wrote in the coalition contract today. Of course, he's holding on to what his colleague Luke Moon said. Cooperation agreement between LMŠ, Social Democrats, SMC, Alenka Bratušek and Desusom and Levico and then cite what it says, project 2 – the abolition of supplementary health insurance, the prevention of privatisation of public health. And here in three paragraphs he writes what he basically says in one sentence; that they prepare the law that they file to abolish supplementary health insurance. However, it does not say what is, of course, binding and binding for this coalition, which existed until Monday. And this is the agreement that died with the signing of the Left Agreement, but how it stands and I know it very well and it's written on four pages what we're going to do in health. But this is done or not, the problem is the one responsible for this area. It's not my fault if Fakin's been pushing his own prime minister for six months and didn't want to say out loud that he wouldn't do anything on health insurance. It's about everything we've written down. And he was protecting those interests that he had been defending for 10 years at the health treasury, which he raised in orbit, that he was the greatest health expert in this country. And when the Prime Minister found out, Fakin got sick. That's what happened. And then we got a new minister who came from the Clinical Center and he knows, again, the health system. I told him twice – You've been late for six months, don't make the same mistake, and don't miss the first year as my secretary missed in her previous term, because we won't move a brick. And in this agreement, I will read just one sentence to you, because I will not kill you by reading: “Additional health insurance will be discontinued and transferred to compulsory health insurance when maintaining the same level of rights.” But you have to be careful not only to read the first sentence, but everything that's written in this definition. And a minimum of what I would expect to happen, and I warned you when we started talking at this meeting, where you say, or Comrade Duck, that I was the promoter of this compromise, which I am now withdrawing from, to the next thing. If we give that kind of money to the insurance company, then we also have to change the role of the insurance company to at least what it is, at least an active buyer. Because I don't agree to logic – let's end the supplementary health insurance, throw the money in there, and then we don't care what happens to that money anymore. Excuse me, like all three insurance companies that you say are private, I see at least one as a state insurance company that pensioners are fighting to go to some fund to help all of us citizens. Interesting, then she's state-owned, and now all of a sudden, she's become a private insurance company called Triglav overnight. And the other one is mutual. Who owns the Mutual? Yeah, I'm sorry, the insurance guys, whatever we do. Or are we making a fool out of millions of insurers now that they're a little attached to not knowing where they are? But who set the system to work like this, but in the last debate, I made it very clear in the second reading. It's the guy who brought the supplementary health insurance to Slovenia, thinking he'll solve all the problems. And what happened in twenty-five years? The health register has adapted to the functioning of the supplementary health insurance. That's what happened. Have you ever heard of a downside in the health department?Oh, my God! Has anyone heard that before? She was never down, because when she ran out, she got extra money. But before she ran out of money, someone else had to give up the money. Those who really know the health system and who know how it works, you know that the money for medical bills or for the implementation of health programs runs out around September, to a large extent in golden times in early October. This money for the implementation of the programme is gone. Then who's paying? Budget? Medical checkout? But let's have fun, please. Not one or the other has ever paid for it. These three insurance companies paid, and I'll tell you the numbers – 40 million was paid on average every year for the program to survive at all. Waiting types – something else entirely; now you want to throw it all into the same bag. I'm in favour of shutting down a health insurance company, of course, but don't cancel it the way you want it, the insurance companies would all like to end the average. Then why do we even have them? Why do we have these damn insurance companies? Why? Why do we protect cars, why do we have insurance companies to work when there's an earthquake? Everyone runs to the insurance company when they flood, and I don't know what else. Because someone 25 years ago imagined that citizens would no longer pay for participation when they came to the ER when they had their leg torn off. If they didn't have these 5 tolars, someone claimed them, and it was very unhygienic that eventually those administrators were there to account for the participation. Dr. Toth was one of the authors of supplementary health insurance that's on our board a lot of times, and he's explaining and thinking about what it should look like. And we want that money back, put it in the health register. I'm sorry, as I didn't trust Mr. Fakin, I don't trust Mr. Suselj. I'm looking at the footage on programme three, and all he keeps talking about is how things are gonna go down. Where was he during the second hearing?Oh, my God! Did you meet him somewhere? Did he explain anything? Did he say anything? Did he tell us anything? No, he didn't send any text. He didn't send anything, like a colleague said, because some people really didn't believe it would never be accepted. But to me, it's irresponsible, the health department only answers when it sees a bitch jumping up her ass when she sees she can give something out of her pocket; and nothing sooner. Until then, they wouldn't change the way they operate, they wouldn't want to be an active customer. What else am I going to do with this, please? For those of you who don't know what an active buyer means. This means that you are no longer just the one who pays, but you also say - No, I will not pay you anymore because you are a bad performer because you have not fulfilled the program; and I will conclude a contract with someone else who will find out. And we don't have that kind of insurance. And now you would like to carry this half billion more, an additional gift to this same health treasury, and at the same time we will not change its status. And who decides on the medical checkout? Politics? No, he doesn't. Why did we say that we would set up a medical treasury 25 years ago? Since this was previously set by the budget, this money was in the budget, but every time the authorities squeezed out a little money for health activities and there was always little shopping. That is why it was said years ago — No, we will have a special health treasury where money will really be dedicated and where politics will no longer have entry. Who's making that decision today? Pensioners, quasi-insured people I don't know who they are, employers, in between unions. Please. And this is the insurance company that represents my rights. My rights. No, it's been a long time since I trusted her with a medical checkbook because I know those old jokes that happened. Whenever Fakin got the question why the money was running low, he opened his own safe in front of the camera and said, "Look, I don't have one euro in here. I'll never forget it because I can't and can't remember. And he was making a fool out of all of us. Next thing. I said, 40 million is the extra money they're paying now, of course. Now we're going to be all the contributions that are now being paid for supplementary health insurance, plus $50 million for directing plus the profits that you're talking about as much as these profits are. Today I obtained fresh data, insurance company Triglav has a million and a half profits from 2018. No data are yet available for 2019 because the balance sheets have not yet been confirmed. Mutual — 4 million because it has the most insured and is the largest insurance company. Then we have Adriatic, which has a little less than $2 million. I don't understand it very well anymore. We are talking about 3 billion plus money for health services, and we are here talking about profits that will solve the global problem of Slovenian health. Who are we pulling? You can't fuck yourself because one serious person you tell him is not gonna get away with it. Now this family's about it. Let us move at least one step, for then another step will be easier to move. Excuse me, yes; but not when we don't have a minister or a government. Now we are going to take something into the chorus to let some of the next government, which we don't even know what it's going to be, let it deal with this problem that will and will be and will remain; it's not just for the waste to be thrown away. It's obvious that this has to be resolved systematically, and I don't know what else. Of course, it's a systemic solution, but I'm not talking about long-term care, it's another law. I'm not talking about a year and a half to settle certain things that all laws have already been written for. Today the minister has confessed and has two marriages prepared. I don't know why we didn't get them in the system in October of the month. The question is, if we did, it would probably be another situation today because we would talk about other things. Why don't we have that basic law that solves a lot of the problems we have today? This is a law on the management of public health institutions. Because we know that hospital directors can no longer seriously manage these hospitals, because until now they can easily manage every single thing because they're saved, they know everything, they know everything, they know everything, they know how to run the hospitals, but the hospitals are constantly at a loss. Next thing. A medical cash cry that she could not bear an additional amount and so many millions to save waiting lines and that she could not pay 40 million patients because there was a decree because public finances simply did not allow them to do so; and that is why they would pay it only in January. Now think again about what he said. And then he goes on with the next sentence and he says, because we're going to have to pay it in January, there's less money for waiting species. Who understands that? Why would there be less money for waiting species if you spent December money in January? There's no reason. Where did the money go for the waiting lines? In short, I've got the top of my head on this, and we're not going to solve this by shutting down the supplementary health insurance, but we're just going to increase the problem. There'll be more money in the cash register that's not real. Today some of you mentioned that we have a good health system, it works. Of course it works, doctors are working, operations are being carried out, interventions are being carried out, first reviews are being carried out, scientific research is being carried out or interventions are being carried out to the very top of the world service scale. Put your hat down! But, as Luke Moon said, universal service, for all equally, is also regulated by the DZ. I'm sorry, they're not dealing with the DZ, but they're dealing with some other stuff that needs to be handled. I am for all patients, all patients, all citizens who pay health insurance in any form, to have access to the same rights in the same way, absolutely. But the limit cannot be – no limit, it is not, in particular, the services for which patients are responsible and who are guilty of having them. I just can't support it. And if anyone thinks they can, then that's his problem, because I don't mean to be in solidarity with someone who lives unhealthyly. This can be seen very quickly today as to the consequences of certain matters. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. I'm finishing up the part where they're obvious, and today it's been heard that someone is going to cash 40 million. Comrade Duck, I am really calling you as a Member, because I respect you, we have also talked about a lot of things in private, and you know how I think, at least in this area. I invite you, please, to come with your name and surname, who cashed from whom, it is your duty to say it out loud. It seems to me that someone has earned money because they are here to defend their beliefs, to me it seems extremely perverse or in some way abusive; to point to someone — see, it is understandable why they speak that way. The insurance company can't buy me with anything. I'm sorry I have to pay her. I can and I have to. I was in a health situation if I didn't pay for it, I don't know if I'd be sitting here today. And so today, to say that one who does not take care of himself has, of course, a serious problem. This universality and accessibility can only be regulated by regulating matters in the health treasury, first there and at the same time by abolishing, by arranging and, of course, regulating all relationships, when, who, in what way. All of you remember the case of a doctor who performed surgery in Trieste. We watched with horror what it meant; but, excuse me, the health treasury paid him 400 thousand euros because he had to pay. No one's reacting to it, and today is still the case. Somebody's gonna do a sloppy job, on the wrong service, except for suing him, he's gonna get a paid service anyway because he's gotta get it. Is that right? These are things that need to be discussed and changed. But of course no one wants to talk about it. So once again, it's a lie, and it's a fat lie when we tell citizens that we're going to end supplementary health insurance and they're going to pay less. By the way, the Left has tabled a proposal for a law that has been completely amended today and is no longer what they have proposed. But they know this well and will defend it only because it is a political ambition to say that they were proposing the abolition of supplementary insurance. I don't mind that we understand each other, and that doesn't bother me, but I don't mind the way this is done — inefficiently and dangerously for the system, that it will even reward those who today are just ordinary payers and don't even decide what is really going to be paid and not, but they complicate things that are inherently complicating in banal matters. Today, everyone's messing around with an ambulance as a taxi service to a doctor. Everyone, because it's the easiest thing to do. Look at the cost of transportation to health care and home. And they are, of course, some are entitled to these services, but not all of them. I didn't go to my doctor once with an ambulance, and I was really sick, and he never took me. Some order it as a taxi service, and the health department pays for it because it has to pay because it was issued. That's what I'm talking about. But you don't care. You are only interested in telling people – we have abolished supplementary health insurance. All I'm gonna do is answer those who are ready to talk, like Ducky said, here's the deal, here's the deal. I respect the diversity of those you put so much into it. I hope you're aware when you're talking to me that this is the same in the opposite direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Before we proceed, I would like to ask the gentlemen on the left to allow the debaters to have an undisturbed debate. If anyone wants a word, they'll get it, there's no problem, you've got enough time and there's no limit. I now give the floor to the proposaler Luke Mesac.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr. Möderndorfer, the conversation consists of two acts, speech and listening. But you're just saying so much that you don't hear anything anymore, or you wouldn't happen to quote at the beginning of your discussion the same sentence in the coalition contract that I told you, if you do, I'll tell you something new that you've never heard before. Start listening, then we can talk. Secondly, you said that since it was stuck in the termination of supplementary health insurance, the problem is that we in this chapter, which we are reading in the coalition contract, have only put into effect the first point in the law that speaks of the abolition of supplementary health insurance. According to Jani Möderndorfer, however, if we really want to do this, we should put in law all other things, such as that the ZZZ will become an active buyer, in order to increase the financing of health care to 9% of GDP, in order to clean up health insurance expenditure items, in order to introduce a health care cent to strengthen the supervision of payers, so that all residents of the Republic of Slovenia will be included in health insurance and so on. In short, since we cannot agree on one measure, the law in which the measures will be taken will have to be written and then we will agree. Bravo, Jani Möderndorfer, you're literally a political genius! Further, when Jani Möderndorfer asks who owns the Mutual and, of course, offers the answer that the owners of the Mutual Insurers are forgetting the following. In 2004, Dusan Kidric was president of the Senate of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. What did the gentleman stand for? For the equal representation of all members of the Mutual Assembly. He advocated, I repeat, the equal representation of all members of the Mutual Assembly. Do you know what happened to him? He was attacked with a tear gas. So whose is the mutual? Are all members of the congregation? Is the Mutual Stealed by Those Who Would Like All Members of the Congregation to Attack With Tears? And whose is Jani Möderndorfer, who says insurance companies can't buy him? I think there's only two answers to that. Either they already or they don't need it, because all of what he was doing now was one cheap attack, not the ones we should cut off, these are commercial health insurance companies: Jani Möderndorfer would like to destroy the Institute of Health Insurance. He sees this as the main problem in Slovenian health care, and he is an even worse privatizer than some Members on the right.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Duck has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u118	Thank you. I repeat to the absent Member Jani, who would like to speak with me. We're so sorry. I have to take this. I was talking about bad diesel, not about who's spending $40 million. Of course, it's the organ's silence, and if I knew, I wouldn't report it. About some laws, up and down, systemic. What was the great SMC doing that Jani went into for four years? Maketo. For four years we had heard about some system laws and already in the middle of the mandate was what they would say in Serbia – Write home failed because Mrs Milojka herself told me that she was being stabbed in the back. Jani knows very well that I am quite troublesome with the ZZZ, which is essentially a congregation of Slovenian public health and health. But some of the logic Jani Möderndorfer has is that. We have a fire company and a firehouse. Let's find out that there are some arsonists in the lead of this fire company, and we're going to shut down the fire company, and we're going to tear down the firehouse. Probably no one who has a little more sense would agree with that. Pyromanes will be removed from the fire department. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a replica? No, no, no. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? Good. Then I'm asking you to sign up. The first one gets the word "Micha Kordish." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, chairman. Complementary health insurance is a form of legalised corruption. And just legalised corruption is the one that pushes down the most, the most sublime of the public solidarity base of the Slovenian health system. In this infamous kit, supplementary health insurance is not isolated. Here are doctors of amphibians who work in the public infirmary in the morning, work in private, and, if possible, send patients to their private infirmary, saying they can skip species if they pay. There are also concessions, at least that part of the concessions, which is totally unjustifiable, where geographical coverage with public, proprietary public services exists. Such unjustified concessions are another method for the completion of a solidarity public health system where public funds are intercepted by private pockets. Of course it's procurement. The purchasing system, as it continues to insist at this point, allows high profits for suppliers. Instead of corrupt public purchases with overpayments, we need a public agency that will cut off suppliers and purchase medical devices directly from manufacturers. In this way, overpayments have been resolved in some Scandinavian countries and costs have fallen drastically. Therefore, supplementary health insurance must leave because it is a form of legalised corruption. For 50 million Euros of legalised corruption every year. 50 million euros from the payments of all of us insured in this country who are unjustifiably intercepted by commercial health insurance companies. To make it easier for us to reason, we usually say it's the profits of commercial health insurance companies. But these assets are not shown in the balance sheets of these insurance companies as profits, they are hidden in high management salaries, in prizes, in some non-profit piarism campaigns, such as the version Mutual grants vineyards. It's like when we're sick, we go to Dars, not the doctor. And so on. Infused overheads, these are all some of the unnecessary items in which these EUR 50 million payments of all insurers are hidden, creams collected annually by commercial health insurance companies. But complete withdrawal of supplementary health insurance is not on the table. Unfortunately, he's off the table today. She was on the table two, three months ago when we presented her in Levica. Discontinuation, indeed the abolition of supplementary health insurance means one and one thing only; to be transferred in solidarity to compulsory health insurance. However, the deduction of funds resulting from the abolition of supplementary insurance fairly raises the contribution rates in compulsory insurance and thus provides the necessary half-billion euros for public health. In Levi, we have done so in such a way that 95% of all insured people contribute significantly less than today's 35 euro position. We also contributed capital income, rents. But as I said, it's not on the table today. Unfortunately, there was no political will in the coalition despite everything we agreed on, despite everything we signed, where we shook our hands so that this kind of abolition of supplementary health insurance, that is to say, the transfer to mandatory, would actually be carried out. There's something else on the table. Some mutilated, much less comprehensive version, which is that supplementary health insurance is nationalised to be maintained and taken from the hands of commercial health insurance companies. This is a solution that we will support in Levica, although it is not a matter of abolishing the supplementary insurance as agreed. Because once we exceed the popcorn between our payments as insurers and the profits of commercial health insurance companies, then the payroll for lobbyists working on behalf of these insurance companies will also dry up within a year, perhaps within two years. But sooner or later, the funds that are now being intercepted by commercial health insurance companies, these are our funds to pay lobbyists to knock on the doors of the Ministry and the National Assembly, these funds will go away. Therefore, the political picture will also improve in favour of the definitive abolition of supplementary insurance, as there will be less pressure. We've seen these pressures in the last few months. Commercial insurance companies in the backstage have launched a pressure campaign like we have never seen before. The main media houses walked on the front pages of the propaganda headlines to support the maintenance of supplementary health insurance. Lobbyists all around took the hooks and convinced various parliamentary groups that their Members should at least be absent from the vote and similar stories. The complete termination of the supplementary insurance has briefly fallen. You broke it in the coalition, you broke it down very hypocritically. In the middle of all these pirouettes you tried to pack in the way that you pointed your finger at us in Levica, you're ugly and you're bad, you can't talk to us and I don't know what kind of mouse you're talking about. Today, at least those who support cutting at least of the insurance companies, in support of your proposal, have mobilised and still mobilized the same identical arguments that we presented in Levica a few months ago when it was necessary to carry them further to the mandatory. Which, on the one hand, surprises me, on the other hand, is a pleasure, because at least to the insurance companies, we step on our tail. Although unfair bills remain for insurers, we open the door to some later steps in order for supplementary health insurance to be definitively lifted, solidarity, to be transferred to compulsory health insurance. And today we don't have an end to supplementary health insurance in the vote, we have something else, technically, much simpler, which is what we decide to do. Will we leave profits to commercial health insurance companies? Are we going to let 50 million euros of every insured person get greased every year? Whether these funds, or at least part of them, should be channelled to where they should, i.e. in support of services, support the public health system. Insurance profits or public health; this is a decision today, this is a vote today and we will count on this issue today. As far as we can count, we'll see. And when we count, it will also be revealed which Members, whose customers are bought and which are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your discussion. Mrs. Natasa Sukić has the floor. Get ready, Mrs. Iva Dimic. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you, President, for your word. I was going to start a different way, but when I listen to these incredible verbal pirouettes and bravours, which were just spoken by Ambassador Jani Möderndorfer, I'm going to change my introduction a little bit. Jani said he doesn't support those who live unhealthyly. I must say that I too am one of those who lives unhealthyly when I listen to the sayings that I have witnessed to them. Dear colleague Möderndorfer, I was under tremendous stress today when I listened to this, and it probably harms my health and therefore I live unhealthyly, but now a joke aside. Today, on another occasion in my position, I have already said how nice it has been on another occasion to show how alienated this Parliament is from the people. The people put us here and we should protect the interests of the people and then the capital. What are we hearing from these amazing brats here today? A great deal of capital protection, and certainly not the people. As Comrade Kordish said just a little before me, supplementary health insurance should be abolished, there should be one insurance, compulsory health insurance, which would be fair in such a way that withdrawals to the health treasury of those who earn less, less; and the withdrawals of those who earn more, but greater. It's so simple, really. And so it would be if our social state hadn't died after meals for over 25 years. We are witnessing the agony of these public systems and subsystems, because they are obviously very big wishes and appetites for health care to be privatized as soon as possible. What are we witnessing today? Not only do insurance companies withdraw around 50 million money annually due to administrative costs, which could be more wisely spent in one health treasury itself, it is in the public health treasury. So that's not all we're witnessing. What are we talking about? We are witnessing the horrifying fact that compulsory health insurance — I am talking about the state now — is not in fact universal. Those who today are unable, because they are poor, to pay supplementary health insurance do not even have the right and access to virtually no health care at all. This is what we are witnessing, and such citizens and citizens live among us. People who can't pay for it and are therefore simply cut off from being fully treated. Now imagine what that means when someone gets really sick. What is more, where is the basic health insurance paid by citizens and citizens and if we do not pay the supplementary? In fact, it is passed on to those who are able to pay supplementary health insurance. So it's their turn to take care of them. However, those who still pay basic fees are unable to complete the supplementary, and they are no longer receiving really comprehensive healthcare. We've taken our system so far, and our system is so deeply unfair. Therefore, it would be only fair to abolish supplementary health insurance in order to create, as it once was, one compulsory insurance; but in such a way that those with lower incomes are allocated to the health treasury appropriately less and those with higher rates are appropriately higher. That's only fair; but not all these pirouettes, all these mazes, how we're going to get somewhere, but we can't get there, it's 16 years in the game, and we can't do it, and we can't do it now, the governments are going to fall, but I don't know what's going to fall. That's what it's about. It's simple. If we wanted to, 90 of us are here. The thing is simple, you just need to want it. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Get ready, mags. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I must say that somehow my colleague Miha knocked on my soul when he said that all the money flowing for the purpose of health care needed to be focused on supporting public health services. I believe that, and I really support that. That is why from the beginning I supported and believed that this order would also be done by Minister Šabeder. Because the fact that Janez Zemlarič was in charge of lobbying in the UKC, who had to receive the service of the information system in the UKC was a sign that he would handle all the lobbying in the Slovenian health system. I supported him and believed he'd do it. And like any minister, these lobbies are so powerful that he was simply trapped in their nets, he didn't do much and he couldn't do it. Because he couldn't do it because there was an appetite for these lobbyists even after the money you're mentioning being shared by someone; but we know who we've been in various investigators for several years, how this money is shared and where it goes, simply happened to the minister what it is; or what happened to the List of Marjan Sharca is what happened to the government in this law, because the Minister of Finance of Bertonzel said that he would allow only 10 million people from the state budget to do so. Apparently, the appetites of these lobbies have been greater and we would like to have a blank menu from the state budget. For these lobbies, the limit of the sky is not an important patient for these lobbies, but he himself, uncomfortably in money. Speaking of lobbying, I would really like to congratulate today on the Minister's opposition to probably one of the biggest lobbying in Slovenia and the prosecution. The minister showed a new law today. But once again, I stress that reforms take place in the first year of government, when such things can be done when the coalition is still united, when coalition partners are not yet calculating when the elections will be and how the polls show them. When this starts, we see what has been going on in the last eight years, practically every two and a half years the government is changing because appetites are great and governments are monitoring surveys and simply finding themselves in a vicious circle. I am truly sad that this government has not prepared a law on long-term care. We've been talking about this long-term care here for so long. When we said let's do long-term care together, they said - We'll do it ourselves, we'll make a demographic fund. For almost two years, the government falls, without a demographic fund, without long-term care, which means another free flow. And today it has been said that politics is transparent. True, politics is clear, but I'm surprised that people don't see color elections, that they don't see how even new faces don't bring solutions, that people simply say – I don't go to elections because they're all the same. There is also much work on us as politicians to reverse this trend in Slovenia. It was said that they would pay less when they were transferred. I don't like the words "removal," because I really understand the word "refoulement" in the sense that my family budget doesn't have this cost anymore. If it goes to the second item, it's the same cost for me as my family budget. But say people wouldn't pay anymore. My colleague also said – Who will pay this difference, the Julka of Rovt or the state budget? You know what I'm gonna tell you? Julka and Rafelj from Rovt will pay because the state budget is, among other things, full of taxes and other things. We all pay for it. This is all about nuances now, just some cover-up and what we're gonna do. We're done. The last communication by the ZZS that the level of the flat 29 euro is too small, which was confirmed on the Committee, made it clear that not everything is so pink with this abolition. At 29 euros in flat-rate payments, the minus in health cash register is 90 million. With 32 euros, as they suggested, and today we have this amendment ahead of us, this minus 42 million. We are talking about the negative situation in the health treasury of 42 million. But I've been in this world for so long, and I've been watching things happen for so long. In the amendment today, 32 euros are proposed for 2021, which means that later, of course, the matter will rise to zero. Where is this thing going to stop? Where is this thing going to stop? And the worst part is, we don't have any influence on that. Citizens are not affected by this border being stopped somewhere. I wish our health system were really better, so I'm trying to help myself in some way, but it's not our fault. For how it will continue to be resolved, or why it is the government's downfall, it is the coalition's fault, because you have coordinated this law because you on the Health Committee have been hearing the words of the Director of ZZZS, who said that this will not work so that he does not support it. I looked at your faces and looked for a glimpse of understanding or signs that you heard Director Suselj. I really had a feeling the caravan is going on and it actually says that it was just and just some ideology that is unfortunately breaking on the shoulders of patients waiting in the waiting line who are satisfied to get a one-year review of an endocrinologist who are satisfied to wait for a physiotherapist for 6 months or more. And that's a picture. And with this painting, the coalition, you didn't work in a year and a half, in two years; only with ideological themes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the word "magic." Bojana Mursich. Get ready, Mr. Jože Lenart. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! After all these discussions, the chaotic adoption of this law has come to a crucial stage today to really step forward and end this supplementary health insurance to take a step forward. Over the past 20 years, the insurers have found that the system we are paying today is insolvent and unjust. True, supplementary health insurance was abolished in 1992. I also took a look at the 1992 Magnography of the adoption of this law. It was also a chaotic debate, chaotic proportions. And the law was passed. But all of us here today are aware that from our own pocket we will have to pay for this health service, as in the future we will also have to pay extra from our pocket for long-term care. But to contribute all in equal amounts, that's a long way from the social state. I absolutely disagree with that. It is also painful that many today do not have regulated supplementary health insurance. Among them are pensioners with the lowest pensions, including independent entrepreneurs who for such or other reasons do not pay, and unfortunately those with minimum income. And it is likely that someone will correct me – but if it is so bad, they should seek help at the Social Work Centre, and they will receive financial social assistance and the budget will cover this amount. No, it's not that easy. If there are two spouses, they both contribute the sum of this money they have and are not entitled to financial social assistance and have to pay for this supplementary health insurance. Today, there has been a talk that it is voluntary, that we are paying each other, but if you do not have this supplementary health insurance, you are not entitled to health care. I mean, you're right, but you pay them dearly. Today, there has already been a debate on how much it costs. I can tell you in particular that for just one brief visit to the hospital there are prices of about thousands and more euros. If you already have minimum income, minimum pension, below the poverty line, where did you get that money? That's unacceptable. Indeed, it is necessary to see that everyone has the opportunity and that all will be able to pay additional health insurance. Or in the new proposal, we are transforming this supplementary health insurance into a compulsory duty. However, I have a bit of a question here about what it will be like for those who cannot pay €34 and €35 today, the proposal for the LMŠ is €32. In our proposal, for this reason we are also putting the Social Democrats of the amendment to Article 12, but this is a solidarity and fair scale. Someone who has an extremely low or pension of EUR 500, which has quite a few populations, and then has to pay for supplementary health insurance of EUR 35 or after the new EUR 32, will still be 7% of his income. For someone who has more income here, this contribution will be less than a percentage. This is a great injustice and we should not afford it in our Republic of Slovenia, which we are treating as a social state. And if we admit it or not, there are differences in social pressures. In any case, some do not have the opportunity to get to a doctor, seek the help of relatives, those who stay with them, to take them to a doctor at all, they already find this very difficult. Therefore, once again, it is extremely important that the payment of this mandatory flat-rate contribution be financially sustainable, that is definitely what must be, solidarity and, above all, fair. This is only possible by paying insurance to all according to their abilities, those who have more are paying more. These arguments will then be possible for this health system to be resistant to economic and financial fluctuations. In our second reading, we have tabled an amendment by the Social Democrats to resolve what I have been saying all this time. Also in the resolution I spoke about today, the resolution on the national healthcare programme adopted in the previous mandate clearly stated the vision that we will have quality and affordable public health in Slovenia, which will be managed fairly, solidarity and sustainablely. And that's what we, the Social Democrats, stick to. I am convinced that the amendment answers all the key questions and eliminates this anomaly of today's supplementary health insurance, that we are all paying the same amounts. The availability, unfortunately, is not the same for everyone; insurance companies are collecting profits, unfortunately at the expense of the most vulnerable population, which rips money away from their mouths to pay this amount. Our amendment follows three objectives – solidarity to ensure that all insurers are included in the insurance system, because that is not the case today. It is estimated that there are 120 000 insured without supplementary health insurance. This is crucial to me because I was approached by individuals when, as I said, two pensioners were married; and they were deciding who would pay for supplementary health insurance, who was more sick to need it. Because in marriage, the problem is that if you do not pay insurance for some time and decide to pay supplementary health insurance after a certain period of time, the premiums are significantly higher than today when it is €35. I saw the bill after they decided to pay the additional insurance and to join the supplementary health insurance system, which amounts to €42 and has a pension of €360. What does that mean? That's really worrying information. I believe, however, that if we came to accept our scale, we would both pay only 10 euros on our scale. You could both get medical services, of course with all the logistical problems, but this is the right way. The first step is that our amendment follows the objective of solidarity. The second step is a progressive scale. So we have a progressive scale where the income position of an individual is taken into account, and this income position is tied to the net salary. Our scale is divided into seven classes, so that those who have incomes to minimum wage will pay 10 euros; and you will not believe, these are 379 thousand 275. Those who have incomes from minimum wage to average salary, here is the largest range, would pay for the new EUR 25, but these populations are 690 000 more. That's worrying data, we're talking about minimum wage here, that's income up to about a thousand 700 euros net. In these two columns, this entire population. Furthermore, from the average wage to 1.6 average wages there are 321 thousand 139 debtors. This income is not high either, and their contribution to our solidarity scale would be 30 euros, which is still less than today when they pay 35 and 32 LMŠ amendments still slightly less. Of course, then our income scale rises, which I think is the only right thing to do, because someone who falls into the seventh grade, that's the net income of EUR 5,000 500, will then pay 150 euros. I think these people could do that, too. Our scale goes in the direction of solidarity and justice. It's also sustainable. They offered only a hand so that if there were not enough resources, they could adjust it a little. But absolutely what we have advocated, what we have written, is that we want a just, solidarity and sustainable health system. In the amendments that are coming to us, we also have a security guard in which we say that the budget needs to be provided with the missing funds. We all know that there are about 8% of the budget today. Our wish is absolutely that more resources are provided from the budget, because we are here far below the European Union to reach at least 9%. I don't see that much trouble. However, I see the problem that the medical treasury would accidentally be a bottomless bag, that the cost of health care would always increase, which is a bit worrisome, but this should be regulated in the comprehensive health and health insurance law that the minister has shown us today that it is a draft. It therefore grieves me greatly that this step has come to pass, that we have not seen the Members see that there has been a withdrawal from the government. Because we would be interested to fully address this problem, which we have been addressing for 20 years. We are aware that supplementary health insurance is just one stone of this. There's a lot to settle at the Health Insurance Office, a lot of things. These hospital absences are also problematic, reducing waiting periods is essential, because if we do not take steps to shorten waiting periods, we will have to devote more and more resources to hospital absences. Today, something else has been said to welcome some partners, political parties, to wake up the Social Democrats. I have to tell you that we're awake all the time. I am a Member for six years, and I must say that in the preparation of the previous Health and Health Insurance Act, prepared by Milojka Kolar Celarc, I have worked properly and cooperated. Unfortunately, there was also a time when the final steps had to be processed, but I still don't know why and who those people at the back were saying, "No, now back off, we're not going to the final stage; and then there was no law." I must say, we've always been a constructive partner. Of course, we have told our wishes, we have often been willing to pull ourselves back, we accept the arguments if they convince us. We worked hard or I could say for myself that all this time I worked with all my knowledge, abilities, and I thought I was right. I've never looked for solutions way out, but I've always looked for solutions, not just to stay with words. Mr Suselj also said in his recent presentations that there would be insufficient money. Colleagues from the Coalition and the Left can say that we cooperated, that we wanted the Institute of Health Insurance to be involved in preparing amendments to this law; but look at the fraction, among other things, and the third reading. That's unacceptable to me. When I first saw their letter, I was appalled. Where were you before? For this reason, a new amendment of the LMŠ was created which essentially corrects this anomaly of incontinence of the system – the contribution of the mandatory flat-rate contribution from 29 to 32. Yes, of course, all other solutions need to be found. And if you allow me, I believe that today we have maturity, wisdom to replace supplementary health insurance with a solidarity and fair scale, as proposed by the Social Democrats. Today, circumstances have changed as they were a month ago, and this will also prove that not only by words but also by actions we can take the right steps. But not the right steps for us, but the right steps for the people, for the good of the people. Today, the vote will also show who is behind the social and fair scale and the fair payment of this supplementary health insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thank you, Madam Members, for presenting your position. You have the floor, Mr. Jože Lenart. Stand by, Mr. Robert Pavlovich. Since some of you have asked me, after the end of this list there is a redistribution and a possibility to report. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's event at this point opens up to me knowledge and certainly disappointment over the morals of some Members, and also over the very politics of how we can move and turn into facts. With the election to the National Assembly, it was clear to me that the priority of this government would certainly be health, health reform, including under the roof of public health. And today, the issue in this regard is very important. What help do coalition agreements, negotiation, if at a crucial moment, the coalition commitment no longer applies to one? Why, we can all ask ourselves today. Is it a fig in your pocket, is it a manipulation, or is it even a public opinion that we have been able to monitor during this period, that people are practically already asking whether you will be able to turn this matter into what they want? We should also have this fact before our eyes today. Those who today do not support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance will remember you, that's for sure, you are aware of that. I have a feeling that in the field of health care in Slovenia today it is a historic turning point. If we do not succeed today in this first step, the transfer of supplementary health insurance from private insurance companies to the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance to save and give people some ten million that we can; how then will we meet the challenges of population ageing? How can we meet the new challenges of health care, such as the cancer medicine that is coming? That must be a big burden. For example, the treatment of little Chris has also been so much talk in the public, why our health care cannot afford such expensive medicines; and much more could be listed here today. Perhaps the right - hand government will now be better off by privatizing health care for those who, of course, will be able to afford treatment. But maybe this is the right way. History will, of course, show. The problem of Slovenian health, which I see alone. As an example, Macedonia raises less than 1,000 euros per capita for health care, Slovenia – about 2,000 euros. Germany, Austria – around 4 000 euros. The average of the European Union is around 3,000 euros. Here is the question and the fact that we should follow, of course, that we are approaching at least this average of the European Union. Why does Slovenia raise less than 8% of GDP as a percentage of GDP, why does it give less than 8% for health care? The European Union average is close to 10%, Germany gives even 11%. Because we are lagging behind in wages because our wages on average do not exceed 70% of the European Union, but we are at around 85% compared to GDP. And then that's the difference. So where is this difference between 70% and 80%? The main source of health care is contributions and collected on gross and gross wages. Therefore, there is certainly a condition for more money in the healthcare sector higher wages, based, of course, on the productivity of those activities with higher technological added value. Of course, the objective of our economy here is to raise the added value of an employee to €60,000 by 2025, today it is 45 000. This should be followed as the added value of at least two thirds is made up of wages. With such growth, health and pension funds would be substantially improved, the poverty threshold and all that we can then afford. The target is €60,000 in value added and an average of €2,000; this would bring us significantly closer to the European Union average. That's the source we should be following. And I give it a much higher priority and a higher priority than that shopping from one thing to another, because in this way we have to be aware that we are taking somewhere else. Increasing productivity and wages and everything else would make it much easier. And that is what Slovenia deserves, because we are in Europe. And to achieve this, the ability of our entrepreneurship and, on the other hand, of some rationality is also a policy in this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Robert Pavlovich. Get ready, Mr. Sonibo Knezak. Then I'll reopen the list. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today the question is very simple, even though we are talking about thousands of other matters – Are we in favour of abolishing supplementary health insurance or are we against? Everything we have seen in the debates is completely unnecessary and in fact just proves why our health system has not been able to experience some normal reform in the last 30 years. If this is stuck in the basics, this is funding, then there is no way we can go on with some substantive issues and actually solve the problems that are in health. We all know that health care works today. Citizens receive excellent health care. Do we have an anomaly in this system? Of course we do. And now talk about how the system isn't financially sustainable, whether it's in the system minus or plus. On the latest calculations of the Ministry of Finance, which have relied on the Department of Health Insurance, i.e. on the one that will actually implement the law, with the amendment that we are putting into the procedure today, which is €32, the system has generated 40 million in the following year, a year later 20 million profits. This profit stays in the system at a lower cost than actually, but there's something creaking in the system, of course we know. If we have a good EUR 10 billion on one side, so that the whole country works, and on the other hand almost 4 billion for just one system, that is, the health system, we're talking about things creaking up, that they barely break through from month to month, or year to year, something smells really bad here. And of course we will have to deal with these matters systematically, but it seems that this will be completely unsuccessful if we fail the first exam – whether we will end the supplementary health insurance, as we know it today, or not. We have already pointed out in our position what added value today's form of supplementary health insurance is for the public interest. If you ask me, no added value. The guardian in the law under which the difference of funds would cover the state budget for emergencies is now a blank note to the Health Insurance Office. How will we control spending or how will we control the amount of resources available to the institution? How are they today? Because the office gets more money every year, along with the rise in wages. The system also receives more funding by raising supplementary health insurance premiums each year. Why we even started talking about this story, about the abolition of supplementary health insurance, let's remember. Last summer, the Mutual announced that it would raise the price of the supplementary health insurance premium. At that time, Levika immediately suggested that we go to the end of this insurance. Today, blinding yourself to the cost of the health system; it will not work cheaper, it will never work cheaper, it will cost more each year. But if we do not end the supplementary insurance with an amendment of EUR 32 today, believe me, in the next few months insurance companies will be very conservative in the design of premiums, but this premium will increase from today's 35 to 40 or even more. That is what I hope to say, and this will happen, as reflected in the debates. For four years, the previous government had the opportunity to bring reform to the table; it did not bring it. The minister tried, today presented two key laws that are crucial to all of us, but the result was the same – the government fell because of health. I doubt that because of health care, because of all of this, because this institution is completely unable to agree on anything. You on the right will stubbornly insist on your side and in your attempt to fully and brutally privatise public services; of course, on the left will resist diametrically. If it were logical, we'd meet somewhere in the middle, but we don't. Then it is better to recalculate, consolidate and say bob beans and start solving key issues without defending some of the interests of stakeholders, so that I do not make it a little worse. Yes, in the whole process of abolishing supplementary health insurance, none of these entities believed that we would make it this far. When did these enormous pressures start, but what are you doing? Only after the second treatment was concluded did it appear that there was now a real possibility that this matter would actually be terminated. No, it's not just those famous or imaginary 50 million euros in profits; it's 550 million a year that can be managed. Profit is what's left of the end. But what happens to these funds is another issue. And that's a lot of money. And that's the money of all citizens and citizens, that's public money. And all of you, I'm going to say directly, excuses actually only point to how you wouldn't. Today we're actually going to be able to show our muscles in the end. I have a clear conscience, I have accepted such a Slovenian Insurance Association, talked to them, I understand their views, their concerns. We accepted the professional concerns of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, took them into account, amended them today. And since the LMŠ also insists that these amendments for the sustainability and enforceability of the law must be adopted, it also points to our responsible attitude towards the whole process and also to the law. What happens tomorrow, anyway, no one can know.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As the last in this round is Mr. Sonibo Knezak. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For many years, social democrats have been reminded of the need to abolish supplementary health insurance. I was quite happy to take the phase of termination to its conclusion. Unfortunately, I must say that today, after the presentation and after everything that has happened in recent days, I am no longer so optimistic. I hope that this proposal will go, which is somehow the first step towards the abolition or removal of private insurance companies from health contributions. But I think we've made some mistakes in this process. What I really miss, in general, at work in the National Assembly, is that for my concepts in the National Assembly, communication is essential. Communication not only within the coalition, it is a special chapter, it is a chapter that is slowly ending, but communication about things concerning all citizens and citizens. The abolition of supplementary health insurance is one of such matters, it is not just a matter of coalition, it should also be a matter of the right. Of course, they should also be included in discussions and in all these negotiating procedures to find the most constructive or best solution for citizens and citizens. I won't go into detail, maybe a sentence or two about the coalition, how we did it. Great, we had a clock, but last but not least, we don't all understand what a partnership means. A partner relationship with me means that with partners with whom you are in a coalition, a super-party relationship or whatever, you communicate, respect, inform them; but not to play some solo action, probably for the purpose of your own piranha, you go through all the deadlines, past all the agreements. First you notify the public, the press, and then the coalition. And this is also one of the reasons why this abolition of supplementary health insurance is experiencing such a fate that we are now witnessing. We could be on a much better path, and a little more communication could be discussed today on a proposal that would be significantly better than this. I'm not talking about history. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the facts, particularly the SMC and Jani Möderndorfer debate. May I remind you that a Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 has been adopted in the previous term. This is a cover document with guidelines and goals for our health system until 2025. We supported this resolution in the SD, supported by Levica, including in the SMC, respected colleagues and colleagues, you supported it. Allow me to quote a few passages from this resolution: “We will strive for fair, solidarity and sustainable financing of healthcare.” Further: “Solidarity is a principle by which everyone contributes according to his/her ability and benefits to health care according to his/her needs.” Last but not least: “Each individual shall contribute a relatively equal share of his or her income and shall have the same rights as the others.” Principles of solidarity. It is said that these principles of solidarity are not one of the whims of the Social Democrats and our pear stories with which some have tried to mark us through their networks in recent weeks, but one of the commitments that we, together, respected colleagues and colleagues, have accepted in the previous term. In the last 30 years, let's say, for the last 30 years since we decided to go on our own, if there's anything I can say for sure, it's that we've made huge social differences in this society. On the one hand, we have a bunch of people who are having a hard time living from month to month, on the other hand, this system has also allowed us a bunch of people who have enough and more than they need. Let us re-enter this health system with this reform once again one piece of solidarity, solidarity in services, health services and thus allow perhaps the 120 000 who do not have an additional health insurance that they cannot pay for today, with the support of our solidarity scale, to make it accessible to them. We are talking about access to health services, dear colleagues and colleagues. This was also the reason why the Social Democrats prepared this amendment for Article 12, this is our scale. I think we sent it to all partners in time, but unfortunately we need to find out that there was no big response. We all say today – Yes, let's accept this today, let's stop it; in six months, in a year, we'll prepare a solidarity scale?Oh, my God! Why are we taking two, three steps? We would sit together, agree to see if this proposal is acceptable. I do not claim to be the most just; I say that on this basis, a million four hundred thousand citizens and citizens of this country would pay less. Solidarity, of course, is €10 to €670 net. Let me remind you, my fellow Members, that the average pension in this country is €630,640. A large majority of pensioners would pay substantially less than they pay today. I don't understand a lot of other things, but that's why I don't understand Desus that he doesn't support it. A scale whereby instead of 400, a few more euros would pay 120 euros at the annual level. We do not argue that this is the right one, given the data we have, but which are a particular problem in this country, this is what we have discussed with our colleague Trčko a little earlier, that I cannot understand that we are talking about such different sums in the formation of these reservations. In order not to be able to provide us with one relevant data at the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health, we are talking about a gap of between a million and ten, they also mentioned 100 million. This will be very difficult for me to convince; but if we do not have this information, then God help us, in our own way. Is this system fair now? He's not fair. A pensioner with 400 euros of pension pays up to a cent the same amount as me with my mission salary as directors with 10 or more euros of their income. That, my respectable colleagues, is not fair. That's not solidarity. That is why we once again offer you the support of our scale. Besides, I wrote it down, I meant to replicate it with some others, but I don't think it makes any sense. Today is the day when we must decide, and I ask you for your support to do this again, at least in the field of health, Slovenia will also do so in solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. If I'm well with you, honourable Members, do you understand that we're going to go in another minute's division for your presentations? I'm on it. We have, honourable Members and Members, nine reports. First of all, you have the word Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. But get ready, Mr. Just Bevk. Madam Ambassador, we're listening to you, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Nice greetings, colleagues, colleagues! Today, this debate is interesting, actually, all day long. The coalition contract just says something. We kept our contracts in LMŠ, but some didn't. And that's exactly how it was the entire time of this coalition. And then some surprised, of course in the notes, find that Marjan Sarec said that this is not how it works. Any normal thinking person who wants to do something just wants to work under normal conditions. Every manager knows that's not how companies do things. Do you happen to imagine a director making a deal with his assistants, then five minutes from now, or one day from now, different?Oh, my God! Would you be the director of such a company, where you would agree to work plans, say, "Yes, we will do that; even if we signed something to do that, then we would close the meeting and in five minutes it would be different?Oh, my God! I have to tell you from my own experience, and when I was a director, I had three assistants so I didn't work like that and I wouldn't want to work like that. If a man makes a deal, he'll make a deal. With regard to the amendment that we are now discussing, as we say, in the LMŠ of agreements, we have come a little naive, at least I, what we can do; and when we come to a key point, even to the third reading of a law, then obviously someone changes his mind or succumbs, perhaps succumbs to some pressure of capital, maybe succumbs to even some calls that come from somewhere. It is a very simple fact that insurance will not be valued, I mean, if we do not accept it today. I'm sure it's going to kick ass, and I'm going to bet it's going to happen this year. If this third reading were to go through today, of course, this would not happen. As far as Article 12 is concerned. This mandatory flat-rate contribution by this Article 12 and/or the LMŠ as an investor of this amendment is raised from €29 to €32. This means that people would pay 32 instead of 35 euros, which is 3 euros less. Someone's going to say it sucks, it's not money; someone's going to say it's a lot of money; and so it is. Every month, 3 euros, but somewhere else you can go for that money. We have followed the calculation of the Ministry of Finance where this proposal was prepared on the basis of ZZS data. The increase in the contribution would thus ensure the public financial sustainability of the health treasury. This amendment would also maintain the current arrangements for those who are already exempt from this flat-rate contribution; these are insured persons with the status of a military disabled person and a civilian disabled person of war, including victims of war violence and veterans of war, children receiving a family pension, family pensioners, children under 26 years of age, or if they become completely or permanently unable to work until 18 years of age, or until the end of regular schooling, as long as such inability lasts. And that's the point of who would gain by it and who wouldn't gain by it. But, in our own words, we would cut off those commercial insurance companies, where that money that could go to public health goes somewhere else. These pressures that are happening don't surprise me, actually, because they've obviously been happening before us. Because today this will not go through, it will obviously go on; so for the next twenty years or so I don't know how many. In short, I think that with this abolition of supplementary health insurance today we would lay the groundwork for the next step, this is for a solidarity scale that we are all thinking about and which has never actually been questioned in the LMŠ. It is true, however, that even in this solidarity in Slovenia some things need to be noted, which are not so self-sustaining. Solidarity can also go when we have good enough foundations for someone else to work for someone you need to be solidarity with. This is likely to be discussed, not just in the National Assembly, but elsewhere. We will definitely have to ask ourselves in Slovenia where we want to go and what kind of society we want to live in. I myself will support all the amendments proposed in the LMSH. I will also support the abolition, because this way I will always be able to say that I have followed what is right and that I have followed the truth because that is why it is actually going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u135	Thank you, Madam Members, for presenting your position. You have the word, Mr. Only Bevk. Get ready, mags. Andrei Reich. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! As we have heard today in the context of the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups, there is not enough support for the abolition of supplementary health insurance. My colleagues and I in the Group of Social Democrats are going to support the law, including the amendment we are proposing, which speaks of a solidarity scale ranging from €10 to €150. But there's something else I'd like to say. I hope that, on the basis of this project, we will all learn something from each other, especially that in future such complex changes do not go hand in hand with parliamentary laws. We have learned from this particular case that we do not have enough professional support or knowledge to draw up a legal proposal that would fully drink water. We are in favour of enacting laws, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the one who sends laws to the National Assembly. He's got enough professional people inside the ministries, he's got legal work, he's got expertise, he's got outside associates, he's got institutes, he can call anybody to help. It is right that the government is the one proposing such complex laws. Unfortunately, today Mr Aleš Šabeder, Minister of Health, was too late when he waved at us in front of our noses with two laws, the Health Care Act and the Long-Term Care Act, which they prepared at the Ministry of Health. With these two laws, he arrived at the National Assembly at an absolute late date. He came to the National Assembly after the resignation of the Minister of Finance and after the resignation of the President of the Government and the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If the coalition had this power to propose these two laws six months ago, we could probably also avoid this scenario, which we are witnessing today, which is moving more than early elections towards forming a new right-wing government coalition in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. On behalf of the motioner, Mr Luka Mesec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. I find it difficult to sign an opinion that it is only the government that proposes such laws as the abolition of supplementary health insurance. Moreover, in the sixteenth years of the experiment, no proposal came from the Ministry to the National Assembly. They're all stuck there. The fact that we have this law in front of us today is a result of the action of the Left Group, which we have drawn up by law, we have aligned it with the Law-Legal Service, in more than 90% also with the coalition; and then we have taken it through the procedure in the National Assembly. Here, as you can see, today it is stuck in support, because the lobbies are not now performing – well, they are also in the ministries, one of them has indirectly resigned – but they have also engaged in parliamentary groups to try to stop the adoption of this law. Therefore, as we have already said several times today, Members from various parliamentary groups have at least some €50 million of annual interests, and if today does not take the first step, I am also seriously concerned about when the political will to take this step is to be done. As far as these points are concerned, this. Second, when you mention Minister Šabedr and his late laws on long-term care, here I would remind you that last week they looked at these laws on Tarcha and also published what was in them. The text is practically the same as written by the former ministry under the leadership of Mileka Kolar Celarc. Only numbers where they were specific, let's say what contribution for long-term care, Milojka Kolar Celarc at the time negotiated with the government 0.48%, are now deleted in the new law, this part is empty, meaning that the negotiations would start again. I wouldn't say they took a step further; they took a step back. Of course, now that the government is on the move, every minister will try to show with the papers that he has done something; but the situation we have been monitoring in recent months, especially in the Ministry of Health, has indeed been sad. As far as supplementary insurance is concerned, the agreement we signed at the beginning of March last year made it clear that this was to be submitted in the autumn. It has also been agreed that we will work together with the ministries, but none of this has been done. In the end, not because we wanted to, but because this was the only option, it ended so that the marriage could come to the National Assembly only if the Levica wrote it herself and took the initiative. If the Ministry were willing to do this, believe me, they wouldn't ruin my summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Andrei Reich, now it's your word. Get ready, Mrs. Violeta Tomic. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Strong, public, solidarity and affordable health care is the priority of the SAB. The abolition of supplementary health insurance is seen as a process to consolidate public, solidarity and affordable health for all. We must say that the system, as now available and available, was neither fair nor social, but even less accessible. Moreover, if the patient did not have supplementary health insurance, he did not have access to emergency, emergency health services. I obtained an emergency health care account for the treatment of pulmonary embolism, 600 euros went from supplementary health insurance. If the insured person did not have this insurance, he should have paid it out of his own pocket. In the SAB party, once again, we stress that we will support the proposal in the light of the strengthening of the solidarity and accessible health system for all, also because we respect the coalition contract. But we also welcome the two laws prepared by the Ministry and look forward to their consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, your word. Prepare, please, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Any new President of the Government who comes with great promises to this National Assembly thinks it will be different than it actually is. And that way, he doesn't know he's gonna hit the lobby when he's actually starting to make a difference. The military lobby is untouchable, the medical lobby is even more. We've seen this now, because the government has fallen right on that rock. Insurance companies are clearly lobbying for different Members because, as we say, they have as many as 50 million reasons why they should retain their privileges. In the previous term, when Milojka Kolar Celarc wanted to change anything for good and in terms of solidarity, dark clouds over the ministry collapsed. Let me remind you that in the previous mandate in Levica, we have proposed a public company that would purchase medical supplies, because our health care is one more expensive because of a whole bunch of commissions, intermediaries and so on. If you had dared to set up a state-owned company, which was supported by the Court of Auditors, there would have been a lot of problems. The second problem is that we have a NIJ, which is a human resources dump from the Ministry of Health. And if you look at it, and I've repeatedly warned you, there are high officials through their own companies participating in this huge health care bagels and also somehow offering their services. Public health should be based on solidarity. And it is horrifying that someone who does not have the money to pay 35 euros for supplementary health insurance will be deprived of these rights or have to pay out of his own pocket. Speaking of solidarity, it is clear that someone with a minimum wage or a pensioner cannot pay as much as a director with 35,000 euros a month or as much as he already does. In short, we have written down, in the coalition contract, the abolition of supplementary health insurance in order to cut off commercial insurance companies from these money stacks that should go to public health. And that's what the coalition treaty is about. You say you respected it, but when we said that we were going to make a proposal in Levica, we tried to align our proposal with you for about six months, but we were not backing it, even by the Social Democrats, not saying how they were for the solidarity scale, even though our basic proposal was much better, as Mr Fakin confirmed yesterday. In short, why is it necessary to submit its amendments to Article 12 if we had a better proposal? Apparently because of the pirates, who will be more solidarity now, who will be more social. And even the secretary of the party attacked Levico before we even debated and voted on it. The agreement was to draw up a financially sustainable proposal to abolish supplementary health insurance that would maintain the level of rights. We did this, we took into account all the comments we received, mainly the comments of the ZPS and the ZZZS, but – let's be honest – by the coalition parties and also the SD there was no support at that time. Now you're saying that the Mutual has raised the premiums and that it's only then that we've activated ourselves. That's not true, that's what Mr. Pavšič said, no, we put it in a long time ago. What happened before, what was later, is that commercial insurance companies should not voluntarily raise premiums, especially when they have so much profits that do not go to public health treasury. You say the middle unites. I do not agree with this, because in the middle we have customers who bear the names of their presidents, bringing you together as individuals, not as a program. And whenever we have to coordinate anything, you have within you, within your customers and coalition crazy problems, because then you have an ideological spectrum from the extreme right to the left center. I think you need to solve this with yourself and focus more on the program. I would say that I cannot agree with Mr Bevk that we have no knowledge to make laws. You know, each parliamentary group has the resources through which it employs experts. In Levica, we always find the best experts in all areas so that we can make credible proposals first. The fact is, the insurance companies showed up after the restaurant capitalism. Capitalism has never worked in terms of solidarity, but in terms of profits. Here's the basic problem, which is completely ideological. We only got two castes – one extremely rich and those who live. Here is the Levica, who consistently pursues solidarity in all areas, in wages, in health insurance and other matters. I think we will also insist on such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u143	Thank you, Madam Members, for presenting your position. Mr. Only Bevk has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A brief replica of a fellow Member, Violeta Tomić. Of course, Member groups or Members can make laws, but the fact that we do not have enough professional colleagues in all of the parliamentary groups may also be too little money to use external institutions. That is why we have the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has ministries and other support services, which, in the context of inter-departmental coordination, can more thoroughly verify or write a law. Even in view of my experience, experience with parliamentary laws in these few mandates has been worse than good.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now you have the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Get ready, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Sonibo Knezak made one very interesting observation, which we already know about this entire mandate. He talked about communication or bad communication. He also revealed how there was virtually no communication within the coalition. It is strange, ladies and gentlemen, that this assembly of these 90 people simply cannot agree on some key solutions for the benefit of our people, for the sake of the patient, for the sake of the patient. Because the key question for the patient is when can he start an effective treatment and who will pay for it. It is not permissible and it is not the case that Mr Pavšič, who has now fled, has said that we will insist on some of his views. What's that?Oh, my God! What a label gives, New Slovenia is for privatisation. This is nonsense. The concentration of stupidity is such a statement. We keep talking, read our program, that we need to strengthen our public health, the public health system. What's the name of the marriage we filed on the eighth month? Act on intervention measures to strengthen, to stabilise the public health system. Don't talk to me. We are not talking, I have sent an invitation to the Members to come and present this law, that you will not have to read it, because no one has read it yet, nor has Mr Šarec read the address. He just said it was privatisation because he just doesn't understand what privatisation is. Dr. Duck read it, I'm repairing, Dr. Duck read it before we went to the Odessa, thank you, Comrade Franz. As for privatisation, by the way, in 2009, we had 54 private doctors. They're not concessionaires, they're private doctors, private doctors, they're not dentists. In 2019 we had how many? 142. That's 260 percent growth. When was the most, when was this growth the largest? This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of Was New Slovenia in the government at the time? She wasn't. Colleagues and colleagues, if it were fair for me to agree today, perhaps the heads of the parliamentary groups or the members of the Health Committee would sit together and say, "On Monday morning, Mr. Prime Minister resigned, today is a different situation, a different situation. And we would agree to simply withdraw this law or throw it away. I appreciate Mr. Minister, Mr. Shabedra. Today, he has shown himself here in a state of despair — I know that he was working hard — two key laws. He did not wait to present them to the parliamentary groups. If we do not already agree with the content that Levi had already had last year, when it began with the abolition of supplementary health insurance and showed that we will not pay or at least some will not pay, but we agree with the approach, the approach was corrected, two laws presented. Then, on the Finance Committee, one of these laws, one of these parts of this twin burned down, and now we're in the middle of a torso. You can't use a torso with some sort of scruples to solve the health system. We in New Slovenia, when we look at the concept of rescue, modernization of the health system, we have the patient in focus, in the mountain. His interest is what I told him. Is this patient now lying still at home in pain of collapse because of this marriage? He won't, he won't. The waiting species, the latest data, 209,000 people are waiting for a first check or one of 379 services, every ten; 75 thousand are waiting for them over the allowable period, 35% of those waiting for them over the allowable period. Some say that this data from the National Institute for Public Health is not accurate. NIJ says they're right, 90 percent. Okay, he's still waiting too long. As far as solidarity is concerned, we in New Slovenia, of course, are for solidarity, we are Christian Democrats, we are for solidarity. But what do we have today, colleagues and colleagues? The numbers on the table. The fact that someone on a minimum insurance premium each year will give about a thousand 500 euros, someone with an average salary of 2 000 – 800 euros, the one with a net of two thousand – 6 000 euros; and the one with 3,000 500 euros – 11 000 euros. At the same time, health care is not available to all when they need it. That's solidarity. I am sure that today citizens and citizens – all of whom are being engulfed by supplementary health insurance, all of whom are being paid, we are still paying today – understand that in this law we are talking about abolishing supplementary insurance How do people understand it? They say – Oh, well, thank God, I won't have to pay about €35. Citizens and citizens, that's not termination. You may now take the same, €35 from your left pocket instead of your right pocket; €32, if I'm right. Do you find it perfectly normal that the narrowest co-workers, the pillars of the Charles Coalition, experts – Mr. Urlep, Mr. Dragonja, Mr. Bertoncel, are someone who says that this is the line of Lek. Okay, I'd be honored if I was in the Lek line. These were once very successful managers. True, politicians probably didn't know, they didn't know how to go well yet; but the reason was also this law, which, by the way, has been rolling for several months now, that they said - we're not leaving anymore. Friday, as far as I can tell, but maybe earlier, there's no date, so this document came up. The Ministry of Finance, as the guardian of the Treasury, opposes the blank currency and the proposal, which is unlimited in height and time. This is signed by every minister, not just Dr. Andrey Bertonzel. This is signed by every State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, not just mag. Saša Jazbec, Natalija Kovac Jereb, Dragnja Method and Mag. Aloys Stan. This is signed by anyone who can count to five. And I agree with Mr. Pavšič, let's talk. But the day before yesterday was Monday, one special Monday. There's no government. Today, we will formally become aware that the government has fallen. Yeah, I'm about to start talking to you. There will be other circumstances, we don't know what. Whether the idea of going to the elections will prevail, which is best for us, or whether a coalition may be established and will have to face these problems, ladies and gentlemen. My friend Jani Möderndorfer said some things. For I was very disturbed when you went to this abolition of supplementary health insurance and, above all, argued the following. For 16 years, we've been promising to stop this. So we're not going to let these 16 years of private insurance eat our money. This is also one of the claims. Wait, did anyone for God's sake read the Mutual Statute? And I'm not their lawyer. Has anyone read who owns it? Has anyone read this statute? I'm not gonna read it because I don't have time. Read who owns it. Do we even have a concrete picture of what is happening to us? Insurance companies such and different offer insurance products where you skip the waiting line. They're kind of waiting. Don't say there aren't waiting lines. Slovenia is too rich, too rich, and we must not let the sick wait for us and die in waiting rooms. Yeah, it sounds brutal, but it's the truth. It's the truth. If we can organize well, that's what the best doctors tell us to do to you, politics is kind of. Insurance companies offer insurance products, says the premium is 10, 15 euros a month there, I don't know exactly, I don't have this product where you skip the waiting line. How does that work? By putting you in a parallel health system — to a private person. We're not rooting for that. And who pays? ZZZS. That's what's going on. Wrong world. Indeed, we are today, I regret that today we are witnessing one great final political dispute over the title of the shadow, how to abolish supplementary health insurance without people noticing that there will be a mandatory way forward. While the divergent government policy goes to the public, the media is plagued by fragrant stories, sad when the heart of the market, which testifies to the extent of the fragmentation of the Slovenian public health system. A week ago, on TV Slovenia, a contribution was made to an elderly Ljubljana woman who had become ill, but she was not admitted to a doctor because she does not have a defined personal doctor. Her last one went to retirement. No family doctor in Ljubljana accepts new patients. The pensioners advised him to seek a personal physician outside Ljubljana. I'd like to tell you that if I had more time, a lot of similar cases, very difficult ones, but I'm closing up. The most realistic, most meaningful, most serious for this institution would be to shut down this law as soon as possible and then, as it is said, after the elections or in a new constitution, in some new coalition we begin, yes, all together to discuss how to find optimal solutions. I'm sure we're able to find them for our health care. Indeed, since 1992, in the field of health, we have practically done nothing to modernize health care, and time is moving on. The world is developing. We will cooperate here – if we do, let's say we will, in the opposition. Of course if we're invited. But it's clear who has to send the invitation. We will vote against this law today, and I expect this story to end as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u147	Mr. Luka Moon as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The part about how people are waiting for us in the lines of health care, I have to agree. But I don't think we'll agree on where the reasons are. One of the reasons is supplementary health insurance, however you turn. If you ever speak with hospital management, they will tell you that supplementary health insurance is something you usually call an administrative obstacle to in NSa. Instead of having one payer, hospital administrations are in constant negotiations with four, which, of course, takes money, energy, time. Therefore, they must also be cut off and, according to some calculations, they are 4 times less effective than a public institution and do not contribute to any lower prices. All these affaires from the cords of braces, operating tables, overpaid materials and so on happened to them in the game. Did one of the insurance companies complain, or did one of the insurance companies protest, or did one of the insurance companies say, "We're not going to do this?" And give him a shit. None. This law, for which you are rooting to cut it off, is in fact the best part of the environment in the cold, so that you can drink champagne with each other, which is likely to be cooled in a refrigerator in sentinel offices. As far as the waiting lines are concerned, I'd say so. I think that one thing that's crucial, you're looking at on the right all the time, and that's that hacking a private into the public is one of the biggest causes of anomalies that cause waiting types. I'll give you one case. My acquaintance needed an orthopedic last time, and he went to a personal doctor. That's where he got the receipt. He called an orthopedic and asked how long it was to wait. And said orthopedically: "Yes, if you come through a passport there for 8 months, if you come by yourself, you can come next week." The same man who works a little in public but has a private one. I understand what this is about. This was somehow, as my colleague Pavšić would say, a middle compromise, namely a two-tier system. It kind of comes out, you won't believe it, I think it started in China because there was this problem in 1979. The farming was planned, the farmers did what was planned, and then they played cards, drank, whatever. Productivity was low and the question was how to increase it. One option was privatisation, what all Western economists were cheering on, and the other was what the Chinese government thought up then, let's leave the plan, let's leave the plan, let's just give the farmers one incentive, and that's when they cut off their plan, they can move on and they'll sell the products they make across the market at market prices. In short, they were encouraged to do more than the plan prescribed for them. Thus, during the night, they greatly increased the productivity of their agriculture. We have health care where I think it was, I don't know who came up with it, but it was probably the same. We have doctors in the public system working X. How do we encourage them to work more? We will tell them: “When you do your duties in the service, you can still have an outpatient in the afternoon, deal with the same activity and sell your service at market prices.” What happened? It happened the other way around. These doctors are not motivated to do their work as soon as possible to work in the afternoon. No, they are motivated to create waiting types, to wait for their public offices for 8 months, to then offer people a marketing service so that they can come for, I don't know, 50, 100, 150 euros for inspection or surgery or physical therapy next week. The incentive here is just the opposite. No matter what kind of government it will be, I don't think it can go beyond the problem that is probably the biggest cancer in our health care, and it's the system of amphibians that's broken down in it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u149	Now I must consult, because we have already announced a replica of Mr Robert Pavlovich. Then who has the advantage? The first is Mr Robert Pavšič, and then you, Mr Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u150	Just so there's no replica of the replica, because I'm replicating Mr. Horvath. Speaking of health care, it looks like I'm going to your liver. And when you run out of arguments, you use personal discreditation and imputation of all kinds of nonsense to me personally. I told you once, even if we're political opponents, we're not enemies. I'm very clear on these two concepts, and I hope you do, too. As far as the law you have tabled, if we have not yet agreed to it this morning, we invite you to present it to us in the framework of the parliamentary group. I hope you can convince me otherwise, but I doubt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u151	Replica complete. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your kindness, Mr. Pavšič. My friend Luke Moon, since I don't blame you for the champagne, I'm used to you running out of arguments. If I understand correctly when this supplement is abolished, there will be no negotiations and no waiting lines. Hello, wait a minute! There's enough money in the health system. That's what the ZZZS says. By the way, the ZZZ, where you want to transfer this 600 million, opposes your proposal because you have read it. Why is the money enough? Because, thank God, the economy you've been rooting for in the last five years is worth 600 million more. I'm sure we agree here. 600 million more. What about waiting species? They've gone further. If you think that this law will also change the organization of the entire health system, then please, kindly explain this organization, because I simply don't see it in the law. If the ZZS, who will now be a monopolist and will have one big basket of money, yes, close to 4 billion will all be if this is good now and the negotiations will not be when I was in the company, I negotiated with the supplier not to destroy it, but so that it was in my favor to the buyer. [[…]] Because the buyer is the king. And in that case, the king is a patient. Will you explain this reorganisation if we succeed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u153	Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u154	You're attacking a strawed man. You haven't been in the debate room since the beginning, so I don't blame you, but since the beginning I have said that the abolition of supplementary health insurance is not a health reform, it is primarily a social reform. It's about managing fair funding. It is not right for a person with 500 euros of income to pay the same amount – 35 euros, as paid by someone with a Member's salary. That's what this is about. What is happening today is the first step on the road to this. However, collectively what I said was going to be to some extent, but this is minor compared to what the examples of Slovenian health care have also made it easier for hospital management to negotiate material negotiations. As for the elimination of waiting species, I repeat, and I have never claimed this, supplementary health insurance and its abolition will have no effect on waiting species. What needs to be done about waiting species, but first I tried to explain to you the case of amphibians, and there will have to be a thorough reorganisation and finally agree on what is public and what is private in this health care. It can't interfere privately in public, because from the whole system, we get this non-functional jaundice that we're all sucking together right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We're moving on now. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Željko Ciegler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u156	Good afternoon! We've heard a lot of populism today. Even this proposal, if it hadn't come from the Left, could have been seen as a populist moment before the elections, and you understand that the Left put it that way. However, it is interesting to listen in particular to the MEPs. I'm sure populism, let's put our hands on the heart, hurt the state, and this kind of rhetoric, when we talk about abolishing supplementary health insurance, is a pure lie. Especially on the side of the LMSH. Let us be aware that it is not the abolition of supplementary health insurance, unless we listen to the basic proposal proposed by the Left, but not this amendment today. That's the truth. And what hurts is the ears when the Members of the House lie to their noses so that we can remove something. For the abolition means that this payment will no longer be paid. No, no, ladies and gentlemen, it's just about putting money from one basket to another basket. And one of your proposals, as proposed by the Left, would be to give more and less. Now this proposal is gone, but you are proposing a general flat-rate. And who does this money belong to? Think about who we're putting in this other basket. ZZZS. This is the conglomerate that has been regulating the health system in the Republic of Slovenia for years. And ask yourself whether this ZZS has been a good custodian of the system so far or not. Do we have a well-ordered ZZS, we can trust him with an additional 600 million euros in money more? But him? It is the bed of corruption, clienteleism, disorder and chaos in the Slovenian health system. When the ZZZ in the past was running out of money for rights, who then began to cover up the loss? Insurance. Insurance companies also flew in and transferred to insurance companies more liabilities than before. But, look at him, look, dear LMSH, your two ministers were aware of this problem, Members, as it turns out, did not. Two ministers, one had a resignation statement signed for fourteen days and the other signed it last Friday. Ladies and gentlemen, the ZZZ has more money than a billion euros over the last ten years. As a result of increased employment, the ZZS raises billions of euros more money due to higher salaries. Now I am asking you all who will support this law, in which the Slovenian health system is better in the last ten years managed by the ZZS, despite the billions of euros more. Do we have longer or shorter waiting types, less corruption or more corruption in health care? What's the chaos in the health system? Bigger. So I ask you if we give an additional EUR 600 million to the ZZZ, in which way the Slovenian health system will improve. If you give me five key reasons for this movement of funds, then I will also support this law. But don't say, 50 million euros more money than insurance will be left in the ZZZ, because this ZZZ, this conglomerate, Kolkhoz, is nothing more than a bottomless pit. If billions of euros are unknown, these 50 million euros will not be known anywhere. Who controls the ZZS, how is this ZZS managed? Let's ask ourselves that. Does the Government, which should be the custodian of the health system in the Republic of Slovenia, have the option of deciding who may be the director of the Health Insurance Institute? No, it's not. Let us remember the wish of former Minister Kolar Celarcheva, who wanted to replace Mr Fakin, but could not. And in the National Assembly, no one agreed with Mr Fakin, only one voice of support received from Desus, all of us opposed him. But the gentleman kept dragging the mandate forward because the government in this institution has only two or three representatives in the assembly. First, we should change the ZZS system as we know it now, if we want to give it more money and more opportunities to manage the Slovenian health system. Now we have eggs placed in multiple baskets. Last but not least, insurance companies are covering their own loss, the ZZZS is covering the loss from the budget. We have no marriage that this will not be in the future as it was during the crisis. When insurance companies raise premiums, ladies and gentlemen, then the ZZZ usually raises interest. See what expenditure the ZZZS had at the same time as the insurance companies raised the premiums. 12 % more costs were incurred by the ZZZ at the same time as the insurance companies raised the premiums. But these eggs, they're betting on one basket now. The possibility of this basket becoming unsustainable and breaking eggs is much greater than it is now, and without one marriage, so that we can have a better health system. Long-term waiting periods, corruption in health care, public procurement problems in health care, these are problems, ladies and gentlemen, which should be addressed primarily, but not starting a story somewhere in the end, instead of starting with really acute problems. And one more thing. So we have two options: whether we follow this proposal, Levi, LMŠ and SAB, and SD, and we will say, we want more monopoly, more money for this conglomerate – corruption, customerism, or we say, no, we break the monopoly, we put more money into more baskets, because it will be safer and better for the Slovenian health system. Especially cheaper. And that's the key. There will be less corruption, and I believe that this will be the end of the waiting species, which is an acute problem in the Slovenian health system right now. Let's not go back to what this proposal is, but let's take a look at what is outside the borders of Slovenia, how they have organised health systems, and you'll see that monopolistic systems are being shut down, not strengthened. And this law just strengthens the monopoly system.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Reverse, Mr. Gardener. It is precisely the countries that have gone as far as possible with your suggestions and have introduced competitive health insurance companies that have found that this does not work, that treatment is more expensive and that costs are significantly higher. In Slovenia, we pay more than €100 gross wages, gross gross earnings that we earn, less than €8 on average for health care – of 100 less than 8. In a country that has gone as far as your system, the U.S. gives more than 17 euros for health care than the $100 they earn. That's the difference. Crate 2.5 is the difference, given the cost, here and there. When you talk about waiting species, you also have to ask yourself how much health care is meant for, and see how much comparable countries are dedicated to. We target 7.8% of GDP, of which a quarter of the funds are private, of course there is supplementary health insurance in here, Italy, Spain are committed somewhere between 9 and 10, developed countries in Europe are committed around 11. Half as much money as we do. If they gave me half more, perhaps even health care would be a little easier to breathe, people would be better paid, more contented, and so on. Once again, when we talk about money in health care, we need to know that we have people in there who are interested in creating waiting species, so that they can redirect public health patients to their afternoon outpatients. Until we solve this problem, there's probably any conversation about reducing waiting lines. In short, the opposite direction is required, as you say. In health care, we need more public, not the public, to destroy and hope that this time privatisation will bring miracles.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Replica to the proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u160	The more money doesn't mean we have a better health system. I have given the example that we have a billion euro more money in the last ten years in the ZZS, and we have a worse health system. We need a better organisation in the healthcare system. This ZZZS, to which you are dedicating and worshiping it, will regulate the health system – if it is not there so far, it will not continue to exist. Despite 600 million Euros of money, more. More public. I support public health, not public health. The health care you want is state-run, organised by the state. And there's a difference between public and state health. And privates, too. Thank God we have certain private people who save long waiting periods. Thank God we have them, because without it people would die on the road, like you say, somewhere else. Not at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Luka, I would trust the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia there I know some wonderful people, exceptional honest people. We can agree that there are three suppliers in there. The ones we're investigating. Is that right? It's not right. So let's get out there first. United States. I'm not a fan of the United States. I'm a fan of my Slovenia. This is the situation in the United States. In the United States, a citizen without health insurance does not receive health care, health care. That's cruel. In Slovenia, a citizen with health insurance does not receive health care, at least not in time. It's cruel, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u164	Thank you. Dear, distinguished Secretary of State! Mr. Joseph Horvath, this is not a battle for the shadow of a donkey. This is the fight to keep the dedicated money collected by citizens and citizens of Slovenia for their health care for this purpose, for their health. Now we pay and collect around 7.9% of GDP for health, but we would need 10 or more points at the same time to ensure that health care is provided. Here today we are talking about two constitutional rights. The first is that health care is provided in Slovenia, and the second is that we are a social state. The one who is on a minimum wage who has such a pension that he cannot survive, even though he is full-time, we now charge 35.7 euros each month. If he does not pay for it, he will be in a position previously mentioned by Jani Möderndorfer that if he did not pay the insurance premium, he would not survive. That's right. 120 000 people in Slovenia do not have paid supplementary health insurance. This means that health services must pay 30%. Sorry, people don't have that money! At the same time, we are discussing that private insurance companies have an excess of EUR 50 million to EUR 60 million of profits to be distributed, dedicated funds or that private insurance companies have 10% of their functional costs, and that health insurance companies have 2 or that private insurance companies have 550 million of their functional money. Not to mention 50 million. See, in Slovenia in the National Assembly we confirm each year to reduce waiting lines we give an additional €30.40 million. That's what this money is about. We are not talking here about health reform, but about the purpose of dedicated money being covered for the purpose for which it is given. Now there's something else I'd like to say about how we work in here. For 16 years they have been talking in the National Assembly that this situation needs to be regulated, that the dedicated money for health care is used for treatment and not for the profits of the rich. Dr. Keber, who was once a minister, made this very clear and professionally justified. The prominent member of Desus Juliana Bizjak Mlakar led the Movement to preserve public health and to abolish supplementary health insurance. I'm talking about Desus now. Desus voted against what once their prominent members had argued. She's a former cultural minister. Not to mention the modern center party, this duality. The court official, who swore, was the president of this party, swore, and in his programme the parties wrote down the suspension of supplementary health insurance, but when Milojka Celarc came to him and, on the other hand, the finance minister, Vraničar Ermanov, forgot what he said. The modern centre’s party, which swore to end the supplementary health insurance, had this in its programme, listened at one time to the financial minister, who explained financial incontinence. We are not financially sustainable to provide healthcare for citizens and citizens in Slovenia. The President of the then government, Mr Cerar, has not resigned. I hope that in his duality we will not look at him in any other position now in the short term. When this matter took place at the current level, this conflict between the Finance Minister and the Prime Minister of the Government, I'm sorry, the Prime Minister of the Government has resigned. Well, fair enough for me. When Mrs Dimic spoke earlier, and I respect that the policy is clear. No, it's not transparent. Today, we will see whether we will vote for this money, which is deliberately collected for health care, to be returned to the health department or to the health insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Željko, a clear policy was discussed by my colleague Jerca, not my colleague Iva. One. But my replica is next. Please let the Slovenian public explain which private insurance companies are, can after alphabet or whatever, and how you got the sum of 50 million profits. What I have summed up for 2018, since there are no business results for 2019, at least revised no, is the profit of these insurance undertakings dealing with supplementary health insurance, a total of 5 million. Maybe I'm wrong. Five million. Once again, look who owns each other, and I'm not a lawyer to each other, once again, for a hundred years. But it is something that is an anomaly in this country, with 600 million more money being given thanks to the growth of the economy, in 2017 we gave health care pockets about 1 billion for health services. Approximately 550 for the supplemental, and the rest literally out of my pocket if I wanted to turn. This sum from the pocket for my health care is growing significantly faster, even faster than the payment to the health allowance from contributions. And that's the problem, that's the anomaly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Proposer Luke Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u168	Thank you very much. We're talking about commercial insurance companies. The sum of 50 million you get is quite simple. Count the damages paid from the premiums collected and you will receive this amount. Second of all, when you ask, whose is the mutual? I already told that case years ago. When the President, yes, Mr Dusan Kidric, was then the chairman of the Senate of the Insurance Agency, he was asked to be attacked by a tear gas by all members of the Mutual, all of its insurers. So the question is, whose is the mutual? I don't think it's from those who can't go to the assembly who don't have the same right to vote, but it's mutual to those who attacked that man with the tear gas.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u170	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Nice greeting also to the elementary school students from Ormož, who see us watching here today! I see a lot of concerns in this marriage, and I'll be honest with you why. Even why I don't see any solution to what we're doing. It's not a law for me. As colleague Maša also said, since it was ready to do so slowly, I do not know why such a force was necessary immediately to adopt a law on this abolition of additional insurance. I don't understand something. Do you realize that if we were to end this matter here, first of all, I didn't understand how those 29 euros came out, and then just once the 32 euros, first of all 31 wholes and first of all, too little, then we said 32 euros. Who's counting? You have some kind of math, is the accountant right with you, making bills. I don't understand it at all. Now we're going two euros up, two euros down, who's right, who's right, who's going to go, will be sustainable, won't last. If we adopt this law, what about the pensioners? They're paying now. With all due respect, it would be best if it were really free. But here we're talking about 100 million about, like I understand. Small, small country, always out, here are the laws of the Left, always out, out. Where's the inside? Of course to craftsmen and entrepreneurs, this is the simplest system. The craftsmen and entrepreneurs are always beaten in the pocket and cut into their pockets. It doesn't work like that, it's not like that, it's not like anything. Then you're talking about a relative share. The relative share is already there. 6.36% goes from the first gross and 6.56% to the second gross employer and worker. What can we do if we put an end to this matter? A better proposal would be to raise to 8%. You're making some laws that don't look exactly like me personally. With great respect for my colleagues in the SD, I now do not understand this thing here – a progressive scale. Who made up the idea that we're going to be doing a progressive scale for this? Where did you make that up? Really with respect, but look, first you start with first class, the net minimum wage we'll take that much, then it's the minimum wage again, and then we're talking about the net average wage of 1.6 And we're going to take someone who made two faxes, just to calculate how much everyone's going to have to pay here or what? [[Incomprehensible]] It's absurd of absurdity, which is suggested here. Where are the bonuses? We'd just take it. Then I don't understand anything else. If we start making a progressive scale for something, it's best now that the state prints everyone's status card. I'm going to go to a tank of gas and say, "What's your salary? Yes, you have a better salary, so you will pay more than that poor guy who has a smaller salary." If we start now, we'll blow the whole system. And that's not right. I am absolutely against this. Let's stop talking about this profit, insurance, profit. I think Jani said exactly what it was and who had to finance it at the beginning and give it to you by the end of October and by the end of the year. The problem is to put money into this health department and stuff all the time. Here we need to change our health management system, which is wrong. Do you understand or not? It's wrong. It doesn't work that way anymore. There's no way. It is necessary to reorganise, optimize systems in one way or another. Too bad there's not many entrepreneurs in here because they'd tell you everything it is. I always said, you're always the one and the same who got paid, but you didn't deserve it. And that's the big difference between us, you'll never understand. We'll give you a blank tip. If there's no money in the cash register, we'll give you a blank bill and it'll go out of budget. Where did that come from? In what way? I don't understand. I'm sorry. Then we got on the table a bunch of amendments from the LMSH, who want to solve this matter because their president got himself into this mess. That's why the government fell, let's be honest, let's be honest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say hello to our elementary school students from Ormož first if they're still here with us. Of course, I must first point out that we have been in the SMC and are still in favour of abolishing supplementary health insurance, but we are not in favour of transforming or transferring almost the same amount as we are paying now, to an insurance company that we all know is already a bad master. In fact, we have always trusted and followed the Minister of Health in the SMC, and also in the second reading, I said that I would support the bill on condition that a new comprehensive law would then be drawn up this year by the Ministry. I don't have that assurance today. Just because the minister was waving new laws at us on his way out here, that doesn't help us. The government has fallen, and I don't know who to charge, who to commit to this marriage this year. We're not traitors in the SMC because we won't support the marriage today. And we didn't work all the time with a fig in our pocket, like some people say. We're not the ones the government fell for. But, yes, things have changed, the government has fallen, we don't have anyone else to commit to this year's whole law, it's true this year before this one. 1. 2021 has come to life, so the situation has changed, and we are not the ones who have worked in any way with the fig in their pocket, as has been said. What do these calculations tell us? At first, you offered us 29 euros in lump sums. The original law, as we all know and speak all day long, is, of course, the law of the Left, which was completely different. Then, once five minutes before the meeting in LMŠ, they prepared a bunch of amendments and completely changed the law and offered us 29 euro flats. Then he wrote the ZZZS, which said it would probably be acceptable with 31.31 euros. The Ministry of Finance then calculated that EUR 32, plus the tentacles in the budget should be open. Well, like Mr Bandelli said before me, I really don't know if anyone here has done some professional calculations. We really play with this health system and we didn't have any professional basis and calculations, but it's really just this political overreaction. With regard to the appropriateness of the solution currently proposed, the Minister of Finance made it most clear, in my view, by way of his resignation. If, within the government, two ministers, financial and health, could not agree on what was best, we, Members of Parliament, could now put this into the hands of us, who are some of the good years here, who have only just come to know the very basics of the health system. If experts cannot agree on this, should we now decide? What's been said, I won't say it again. Sometimes you like to read the different messages we receive, and I will read one for you, which will make it so much easier for me to vote today. The doctor writes: “This proposal is really bad. Transfers money to the ZZZ, which is part of the problem and not the solution." So thank you to this doctor and to others. We can't really confirm what we're talking about today because people won't gain anything by it. By now paying 32 Euros of compulsory contributions instead of 35 Euros of voluntary contributions, it is said that everyone, regardless of whether someone is not paying now, will actually be at a disadvantage, as some insurance companies are now offering certain discounts if you are additionally insured with them. We all know that the fiscal rule says that all public cash registers must, in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act, ensure medium-term balance. In view of all the material that we have received, as far as I am aware of it as I have read, these 32 Euros, which we have already reached, provide for only two years of sustainability. With effect from 1 March 2021, it is one way or another to harmonise as much as the wages increase, so that we also have no guarantee here that this amount will now remain, as some of you have said that premium insurance companies will increase. Thus, the Minister will also have to raise this premium or so many more resources will then go from the budget. As a matter of fact, I won't support the marriage on my own. But I won't support him because I can see if he's not supported by ministers, and I believe they know more professional things than I know them right now, and then I can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Here you go, Luka Moon, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u174	I've been listening to this and it's totally insane. You're coming from the Modern Center Party. I would like to remind you that the abolition of health insurance was one of the key commitments of the Cerara government: the benchmark project, the second track, the abolition of supplementary health insurance. That's where Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc prepared the thing, but the lobby stopped it before she came from the Ministry. We took the baton from her, we invested it this fall. You didn't like the law because it was written by Levi, because you disagreed with the contribution rates, because it should be written by the Ministry and so on. When the coalition adopted this law and the coalition transformed it into two steps, and the Ministry of Health is somehow in the same way, you say that now this law does not solve anything more than what Levi has proposed now, and this law is just a flatfoot that will keep everything the same. Even more, from NSI even in a more vulgar form you take the argument against ZZZS, if it is one ordinary, I don't know, mafia organization in the middle of the health system. I have no words for this duplicity. Really, a little remember why this party was set up, what values you were defending, because what I'm listening to today, I can't believe it's the same thing we saw a few years ago or when you were born.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Moica Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u176	I have a replica. As I said at the outset, we were in the SMC for an end, we were and were still supporting and following the minister to see that this law will be completely resolved. This role of an active buyer, as previously presented in very detail by our colleague Möderndorfer. But not just by transferring this amount, it would have entered into force in 2021 anyway, so we actually don't do anything about it. We have already adopted the laws in stock, and this has been said in our position, the Law on Personal Assistance, which was adopted. What has now happened because the law on long - term care, as promised, has not been passed in the meantime? We will not take such risks, and we want the matter to be resolved in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Luke Moon's proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u178	Exactly why, because of people like you, nothing will ever be different.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Soniboy Prince, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u180	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be brief. I wasn't in this room. I was listening from the office. Two paragraphs of a comment. First of all, if we're going to comment, let's just listen. I am referring to the debate of my colleague Bandellija and the charts. First of all, he's from the economy and I would expect him to know what a progressive scale is. To someone with his money that's clear, what he's doing is making it clear that he doesn't need to be specifically explained. Second. He didn't listen well. I wasn't talking about any benefits for petrol vouchers on Petrol. We were talking about health insurance, which is extremely difficult to pay by a handful of people in this country. 120 thousand citizens and citizens in this country don't have it because they can't afford it. Some solidarity that those who have more pay little more than those who do not have – what is wrong with it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. I conclude the debate on Article 7 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I also conclude the debate on this article. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members and the amendments of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I also conclude the debate on Article 12. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I also conclude the debate on this article. I am putting to the debate Article 22a and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I am also concluding the debate on this article. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Gregor Perich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate has been, is still, well, we will see how it will take place, very lively and in some way we have used it in this space for some of these small mutual accounts. Whether that was necessary or not, I don't know if everyone should judge. The fact is, when we touch this law, we can say that the Levica brought this law to the National Assembly and took the Government with it. We know the circumstances in which this government has worked, we know that it is a minority, that it has very little support. Also, the President of the Government said that it was better not to have too many of these boats, but we were not exactly good in that sense or we were very good at it. You know, the problem with such laws and even the problem of health is that it is extremely complex and many health ministers have been burned in this field, and many have given up. In this sense it is also difficult to find some quick, simple solutions to very complex problems. That's what I am [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u183	Mr Perič, I apologize, but we have a debate on Article 23 and I would ask if you could somehow direct your debate to this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, but I think we're in here to discuss a little bit more, we can do it a little wider. Thank you. I know. I was following. Allow me to discuss this with you? I guess so. Well, if you don't, judge anyway. I think it makes sense once again to point out that when we talk about abolishing this contribution, we need to be very precise and tell everyone that it is not a withdrawal, but that this contribution remains to receive another form, to put from one pocket to another pocket. What a fundamental difference in this sense is not or unfortunately cannot be because this solution must be comprehensive. We also want such solutions in the SMC. Unfortunately, in the previous term, we were faced with the fact that, despite the fact that they came from the government to the National Assembly and to the coalition of some comprehensive solution, then there was some overwhelming will. Today we have seen that when we talk about some comprehensive solutions, unfortunately we are not yet quite at this point because we still have to take the next steps. And since there is no guarantee, no guarantee that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u185	Mr. Perich, I'm getting the warnings again. Please discuss the point put to the debate, this is Article 23 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group. It is true, however, that to Article 7, everyone discussed everything, but I did not hold the meeting at that time. I respectfully ask you to respect my guidance. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Vice President. Okay, I can see that we have different criteria, and out of respect for you, I'm going to take this into account, but I can see that colleagues are in a bit of a bad mood. Okay, I think we've made our point. Thank you very much for the opportunity of this debate, although it was somewhat limited.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments that will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and interrupt the 15th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16 and 10 minutes. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 3.37 p.m. and resumed at 16.09 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, just a moment. Dear Members, honourable Members, only technical information. We'll start with a minute or two later because there's been a technical problem with one card. Dear Members, I inform you that we will begin the meeting of the National Assembly at 4:30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4:13 p.m. and resumed at 4:30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u189	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, we have found the missing card and found it in the ventilation slot, and this allows us to continue the adjourned meeting of the assembly. I inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 12, 10, 2, 7, 6, 8, 9, 5, 11 and 1 of the agenda. With respect, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. Thank you. We're moving on to 12. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the hearing of Ms Marjan Šarc's notice of resignation from the office of President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. By letter of 27 January 2010, the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, informed me that, pursuant to Article 12 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 261 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he had resigned from his office as President of the Government. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 112 and Article 261 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly is informed of the following decision: The National Assembly notes that Mr Marjan Sarec has informed the President of the National Assembly of his resignation from the office of President of the Government and has therefore ceased his office as President of the Government, thereby also ending the functions of ministers. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Marjan Sarec and the ministers and ministers shall carry out ongoing operations until the election of the new Prime Minister of the Government and the appointment of new ministers. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 220 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will inform the President of the Republic thereof. However, I thank Mr Marjan Šarc for the work he has done, and I wish him all the best in his further work. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal to appoint a Commission to assess the eligibility of candidates under the Law on Legal Protection in procurement procedures. The proposal was submitted to the Court of Justice for consideration. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the Commission to assess the eligibility of candidates under the Law on Legal Protection in procurement proceedings for a period of five years for the President of Dr Saš Prelik and for the member of Dr Barbara Nerat and Mrs Albina Hrnec Pečnik. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Are the voting devices working? Thank you. We're re-voting. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 26. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 26.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a President and nine members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to appoint a mag to the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and to dispose of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Damjan Konovšek and Mr. Franz Floriančič, mag. Dušan Hočevar, Mr Bojan Horvat, Mr Matevž Kocjan, Mr Aljoša Rowan, mag. Natasa Sherbec, Mr Luka Špoljar, mag. Andrej Vizjak and Mag. Matjaž Voduzek. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 81 votes in favour, none against. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it this decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibilities of holders of public functions in the Children's Cardiology Programme and in the field of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 86 votes against 1. [[The vote was 86.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the case of Franc Kangler and others. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 10. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it this decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda – Re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonage Tax Act. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u190	Thank you very much. In re-decision on the veto, we will vote against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonage Tax Act. And the reasons are as follows. Tonage tax is a tax refund on profits that can be used by shipowners. This is a state aid scheme in the European Commission and the European Commission allows countries to apply this scheme for 10 years. For the first time, Slovenia applied for it in 2008 and 2009, for a 10-year period. That's the end of the 31st. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Now he's asking for a new ten-year period. The Commission said that it could, but that it needed to adapt the law. However, this law, which is a condition for Slovenia to be granted the next 10-year period, is worth extending or not, should be concluded after what happened in the previous decade. In the previous decade, so many negative things have happened for the Slovenian sea that the extension of the law is opposed by both the Society for the Conservation of Slovenian Shipbuilding and the Development of Slovenian Maritime as well as the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport. Both point out that the number of Slovenian seafarers has halved at this time, that the Slovenian shipbuilding has been destroyed and sold out. In 2012, the owner of Peter Doehl, a German billionaire with 8 billion euros, sold out the General Sailing fleet, and the repurchase of this sale did not want to reinvest as prescribed by law, but in the previous mandate he tried to abuse the Ministry of Finance – to remind me that the current secretary at the Ministry of Tylen Bozic was subsequently criminally incriminating – that after he was exempt from paying the tax, taxpayers would write down another 6.4 million euros owed to the State now. In addition, both its companies are registered in tax havens, one in Liberia, the other in the Marshall Islands and the crew on the fleet are no longer Slovenian, but in three quarters or 80% foreign. In short, Slovenian shipping is no longer available. This was also made clear by the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport. With such owners, which are still subsidised by the State, there is no hope for them, so those who are actually seeking to preserve the Slovenian shipbuilding and the development of the maritime sector are calling on us to reject the law so that the state does not subsidise owners who are gravediggers of the Slovenian shipbuilding, but also tax payers who are hiding in tax havens.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 44. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 44.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Workers in State Authorities in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. I give the floor to Mrs Matei Udowicz, who will speak on her own behalf. One moment, I made a procedural mistake. Would anyone like to speak on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. I repeat my word to Mrs Matei Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u192	Thank you very much, President for your word. As I have already said on the committee, on my parent's working body, that I had already decided to regulate the Law on National Authorities Workers at the beginning of last year, when I was appalled to find that, as a member of the National Assembly, I was entitled to an additional day of leave for every child up to the age of 15, and our experts do not have the right to do so. Likewise, not all workers in state bodies have it, so today I will be most pleased to vote in favour of amending the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u193	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. This brings us to the vote. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 89 votes in favour. (For the vote was 89.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 January 2020. We are now deciding on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 33 to 50 votes in favour. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 12 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ Group to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 19 to 67 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 67.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 12 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 34 to 50 votes in favour. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 18. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 35 to 50 votes in favour. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 22. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 to 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 23. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 to 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. With regard to the harmonisation of the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Tomaž Pliberšk. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u194	Thank you, President, for your word. The opinion of the Government is that due to the amendments adopted, the law is not harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u195	We are talking, honourable Members and Members, about the amendments adopted in second reading. If you give me a chance, we'll continue! Thank you. Since the Government has pointed out that the proposal for a law after the third reading has been concluded is inconsistent, please ask the proposer to prepare a harmonisation amendment by 6 p.m. The National Assembly will continue its consideration of this item at 6.30 p.m. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6:30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4:49 p.m. and resumed at 6:30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u196	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance under the ordinary procedure. The harmonisation amendment has been tabled because the Government has warned that after the third hearing it is necessary for the amendments to be adopted. I would like to know if the representative of the proposal wants to present the harmonisation amendment. He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak to the government about the harmonisation amendment? He doesn't want to. Would anyone like a word on behalf of the members of the groups? No, no, no. Does anyone want to discuss it on their own? No, no, no. I therefore note that there will be no debate and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal's harmonisation amendment to Articles 8, 10 and 11. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. This allows us to move on to a full decision on the bill. Who wants to speak on behalf of the groups of Members? Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Apparently, the cancellation of the supplementary insurance also ends in this circle. In some ways, I am pleased that, for the first time since the 17th year, since the policy promises to end, at the initiative of the Member's Left, we have succeeded in bringing him to this point at least. But it saddens me that once again, the interests of insurance companies and lobbyists have proved to be stronger. One minister resigned directly in connection with this, a part of the middle that is apparently already talking about a new government with the right hand, today showed his true colors and today the collateral victim of these political games is the law on the abolition of supplementary health insurance. We had the opportunity for probably the largest pension rise in the history of Slovenia. Any pensioner would have been less than one post if that original law of ours had been adopted. We know that the greatest poverty is currently among pensioners who receive low pensions, but this has been rejected. It would also be of great benefit to people with low wages, nicknames, espionage and others. Two months after the coalition took over our marriage, we came into another form. This would now be the first step that would only exclude insurance companies from the system. This would reduce administrative costs. In fact, if you count it off [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u198	Mr. Luka Moon, just one moment. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please allow the debate to take place. I'm returning my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u199	Thank you. If you compare the costs of commercial insurance companies with the costs of the Health Insurance Office, you will see that these are about 5 to 6 times higher, which means that things would be cheap and that half a billion euros would be transferred to the public system. As it is said, this is not a health reform, it would not save the waiting types, but the first step would be to arrange for health care in Slovenia to be really accessible to everyone and not for those with low incomes, low wages, low pensions, to pay 35 euros a month, which is the same amount as we actually pay those who have sent. The law before us today, after you voted against the amendments, is far from what we wanted to achieve in Levica with him. But given that it is clear at this point that we are saying good-bye from him, we will also this time, although symbolically, press the key to just for the historical record to know who broke this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Mr Jani Möderndorfer, do you want on your own behalf or on behalf of the Group of Members? In my own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u201	Thank you very much. It is also right to record in history how many lies have been told today. Health services are available to everyone today, but to everyone. I don't know one case that would have been rejected in the E.R. I don't know one case I can't pick up. I don't know one case where the general doctor would say, "I'm not going to examine you, go home because you don't have the money." What we just heard is a fat lie. Yeah, it's really what you wanted, and it's that, in fact, once again, you would bring an increase and a burden on the budget in the form that someone would make life easier, which is not true again. The problem is that health care will be more expensive every day. Throughout the entire phase, your proposal fell months ago. It's sad to admit that this marriage is tricky, but you'll be walking around with some symbolism that you'll be able to use during the elections, that you were the only one called who honestly thought something. Thank you so much for such a lie. Therefore, the SMC will vote against. More importantly, it is not and cannot be a reflection of any new coalition, as some would like to present it, but it is probably for most of them this beginning, an introduction to the electoral campaign. Thank you for this rotten start of an electoral campaign that starts with a lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u202	Your Honour, you had the opportunity to explain your voice and you had no right to have discussions with others. And that's what you did. I want respectable and respected that business regulations are not abused. This is my request, but if this happens again, it will be a request. Can we go to the vote? We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 51. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 51.]] I understand that the law has not been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Act on the level of reimbursement of labour costs and certain other benefits under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 87 Members and Members attended, 87 votes in favour. [[The vote was 87.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on State Border Control. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on State Border Control is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 36. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the council has taken a decision. The bill will be allocated for consideration to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the draft law on changes and additions to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 36. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the council has taken a decision. The bill will be allocated for consideration to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Secret Data in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 24. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 11th item of the agenda, this is the motion for a resolution on the national programme on strategic orientations for the development of Slovenian agriculture and food »Our food, rural and natural resources after 2021. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 8. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 28 January 2020, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. I inform you that in the event that any of the proposed decisions are taken at the meeting of the State Assembly, the President of the Government, the Minister, or the Minister, who conducts the current business, will be involved. First, the National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to the question of Mr Luke Mesac's question on the introduction of a fair real estate tax. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 43. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to disturb you. I'm asking if we're taking another break. [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much for your attention. Second proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to Mrs Ive Dimic's question on the alarming state of the public health system. There are 87 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 41. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 41.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Third proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, to Mr Dusan Šiška's question on the anti-corruption Commission. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 51. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fourth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandre Pivec, to Mrs Lidija Ivanuš's question about the controversial food and the poor functioning of the Directorate for Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] No decision is taken. Fifth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandre Pivec, to the question of the question of animal protection by Mr Luka Mesca. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 43. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandre Pivec, to the question of Mr Franz Breznik on the social status of the older rural population. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 7th Proposal for a Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Zdravka's reply to Mrs Violet Tomić's question on responsibility for the harmful privatisation of Adria Airways. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 41. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 41.]] No decision is taken. Eighth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice, Mrs Andreja Katič, to Mrs Alenka Jeraj's question on the construction of a women's prison in Iga and a man's prison in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. Ninth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikal, to the question of Mr Blaž Pavlin on the question of the inappropriate Christmas card. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 51. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 51.]] No decision is taken. 10th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture Mag. Mr Zoran Poznič and Minister for the Environment and Space of Mr Simon Zajc on Mrs Nataša Sukič's question about the Ljubljana Collise, the demolition of the monuments of the immovable culture of heritage and the growing gentrification. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 44. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 44.]] No decision is taken. We turn to the eleventh proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice, Mrs Andreja Katič, to the question of mags. Dejan Kaloha in connection with the public opinion of the judgments. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 50. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 50.]] No decision is taken. 12th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Aleš Šabedr to Mr Jožef Horvat's question on the implementation and effects of the Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 52. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 52.]] No decision is taken. 13th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenka Bratušek on the question of Mr France Kepe on the implementation of plans for the rehabilitation of state roads. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] No decision is taken. Fourteenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Simon Zajc's response to the question by Jani Ivanuše concerning the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 50. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 50.]] No decision is taken. Fifteenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar, to the question of Mr Anja Bah Žibert, on the procedures for visits to the homes of citizens by the police. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 51. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 51.]] No decision is taken. 16th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Mr Alenka Bratušek and the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mr Simon Zajc on the question of mags. Carmen Furman regarding environmental consensus and impact on the implementation of infrastructure projects. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 50. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 50.]] No decision is taken. Seventeenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer to Mr Aleksandr Reberšk's question on the issue of new injustices and imbalances with the introduction of the novel of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 50. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 50.]] No decision is taken. 18th Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture Mag. Mr Zorana Pozniæ refers to Mrs Violete Tomić's question on the issue of contentious human resources in the field of culture, which is covered by the ministry managed by the Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 44. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Nineteenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Public Administration Minister Rudija Medveda to the question by France Breznik concerning technology 5G. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal 20: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Zdravko Pavlovska's reply to Mr Boris Doblekar's question on the issue of absurdly high and disproportionate fines to which entrepreneurs are exposed. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. One-and-a-half proposals for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Simon Zajc's response to the question of Mr Boštjan Koražija on the Interstate Strategic Projects FRISCO1 and FRISCO2 for the Drava River area and other planned flood measures for the Drava River area. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 44. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Twenty-two proposals for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Alenke Bratušek's question on the question of Zeljko Cigler concerning the low use of Slovenian railway infrastructure and the simultaneous financing of the increase of rail capacity for freight transit from the state budget. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 48. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Twenty-three proposals: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Simon Zajc, Minister of Environment and Space and Minister of Education, Science and Sport of Mr Jernej Pikal to the question of Mr Jana Mahnič on the organisation of school transport in the areas of wolf attacks. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 52. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Forty-two proposals: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Simon Zajc's response to Mr Boštjan Koražija's question on the protection of multi-residential buildings. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 44. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Twenty-five proposals for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Mrs Andreja Katič, to Mrs Violeta Tomić's question on the shameful annulment of the judgment against the commander of the patriots and a member of the occupations of General Leon Rupnik. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 70. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 70.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Ladies and gentlemen, I also conclude the 15th meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice evening ahead.
