ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u1	I'll just start. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Members: Ferenc Horvath from 17:00 on, Jani Prednik and Sonibo Prince. I invited representatives of the government to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 43rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday 15 July 2020 by reference to the meeting. There is no proposal for enlargement. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as referred to. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 43rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is the first defence of the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian military in the years 2021 to 2026. With regard to this bill, a group of 10 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi Government. Matthew Tonin, Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome. The last decade has been difficult for the Slovenian army. After that last financial crisis that took place in 2008, it was the defence system that paid the highest price. The defence budget has practically split. That is why the moment has come when, as former Chief General Geder said, we must decide whether or not we will not have the Slovenian army anymore. The Slovenian Army urgently needs investment, and today you have a law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army by 2026. There are three important financial pillars inside the army and within the defense. One is wages, the other is missions and operations, and the third is investments. Today we are talking about this third pillar, about investments. I therefore admit that I find it difficult to follow all the comments that say that it would be wise to provide or give them to anyone else. If we do this, then that means we end the Slovenian Army. Today we cannot talk about redistribution of funds, it is necessary to simply decide whether or not we want an army. Since there are no additional funds here, all the funds are collected here in the law. Finally, we are talking about the army that has conquered this country, which today makes Slovenia an independent and independent state. We are talking about an army that guarantees peace and security in the Balkans, especially in Kosovo, so that life is safer and better in Slovenia. I'm talking about an army that helps the police secure our southern border every day. We must not forget that it is also a force that always acts when it comes to natural disasters. They also help, rescue, and rescue victims in natural disasters. As long as we are in the mountaineering season and the beautiful mountains, the army always responds to our call for help when we climb or crash in the mountain. The military was also active during the last period when the coronavirus came by transport, by disinfecting various facilities, by establishing a mobile Role hospital, if necessary. This is a real picture of the Slovenian defence system. As I said in the introductions after that first meeting crisis, there has been a drastic decline in the defence budget and in the last decade, the practically defence sector has not recovered. In this graph you can see very easily and clearly what the defence expenditures of the past and what they are today. Things have deteriorated dramatically since 2010. This looks like a graph of how much our allies spend on defence spending, and as you can see, Slovenia is on its tail. With the percentage of GDP we are earmarking for defence, we are practically at the end of this scale among our allies. Belgium, Spain and Luxembourg are behind us, and for these three countries it is necessary to say that they have committed resources, however, to those things which they put high priority. This graph is even more sad, showing how much individual armies, individual countries, are earmarked for investment. Here is Slovenia with seven, good seven percent on the tail of this scale. It was quite unforgivable and also non-diplomatic to review our readiness in the crisis and war. [[sign for the end of the debate]] and, finally, a review of the Alliance when reviewing our defence capabilities. It was found that we do not provide adequate financial resources for defence, which is due to a critical lack of political war, that Slovenia's defence is obviously not important and does not take an approximate share in providing collective defence and that the usefulness of the Slovenian Army is limited to the most unsolicited tasks. The findings are: [[sign for the end of the debate]] To conclude, I would like to show this graph, which speaks of the fact that practically the Slovenian Army has lost thousands of members and members in the last decade, so things need to be set in a much different way if we want different results.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the positions of the Group. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek and Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! The basic objective of the proposal of the Act on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army in the years 21-26 and the provision of financial resources in the planned scale and planned dynamics for the establishment of the most important military capacities, for the fulfilment of the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces and for the participation in the collective defence system. The Republic of Slovenia also assumes a proportionate part of its responsibility to ensure national security in the collective defence system. The Annual Investment Implementation Plan will be adopted by the Government and the plan should be aligned with the National Development Policy Programme and the Development Programme Plan. The law will regulate spending of €780 million, with annual spending of €100 million in the first three years 2021 and €2022 for the next four years and €145 million per year. The amount of resources set at the annual level may also be higher in individual years by an amount which, due to objective circumstances, could not be realised in previous years but should not exceed EUR 160 million per year. The law will allow multi-annual contracts to be concluded in the provision of arms systems and military equipment, which also assume obligations for a longer period than the annual budget of the Republic of Slovenia is adopted, and the obligations imposed for each year cannot exceed certain years of restrictions under this law. The proposal to double the defence budget says a lot about the government's priorities. We find it hard to believe that there are sufficient resources to preserve a strong social state on the one hand and to accelerate the start of the economy and, on the other hand, to strengthen the defence budget. The fact is that, given the stability programme for 2020, the country's debt as a percentage of GDP is expected to increase to 82.4% of GDP in 2020 after a reduction to 66.1% of GDP in 2019. Next year, according to the European Commission's spring forecast, it is expected to be 78.9% of GDP. The COVID-19 epidemic has had a negative impact on macroeconomic and fiscal prospects, so in the SAB Group we rightly ask ourselves how, in the event of the expected public financial deficit, we will also ensure the stability of the pension system, reduce waiting lines in health care, set up a demography office and raise defence spending. In the SAB parliamentary group, we do not diminish the importance of the national security system, but it seems that, at the expense of small public money, all priorities will be difficult to implement at the expense of measures to mitigate the consequences of the coronary crisis. All of these concerns will keep us in the SAB parliamentary group on the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Member of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u6	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! We have before us the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army in the coming years, more precisely from 2021 to 2026. In the DeSUS Group, we support any efforts by the Government to provide investment that strengthens our country and looks forward to a better tomorrow. While the client and the Desus Group are certainly concerned about social and health investments, we are aware that all long-term denials and cuts in resources in such an important system as defence are necessary once and for all. The estimated spending time of €780 million in the proposal makes sense for 6 years. [[Incomprehensible]] Investments will establish and provide the most important military capacity, which will lead to a better assessment of the readiness of the Slovenian Army. The latter, despite the expertise and hard work of the members and members of the group, cannot be commended more than apparently in recent years. The bill also includes an important safeguard to ensure effective control, as we will get acquainted with its implementation once a year in the National Assembly and believe that the reports will be prepared accurately and carefully. The fact that many have already cut their ears by mentioning small investments or the involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces has already been adapted. At a number of meetings we have already heard about the usefulness of such activities, but only about the cooperation of the collective defence system, although it was achieved through a social consensus. However, it is incomprehensible to us how quickly we can forget that the Slovenian Army plays a very important role with its members and capabilities in everyday situations, such as the resolution in our mountains, major accidents or the transport of wounded and newborns in incubators, not only in the case of natural disasters such as devastating floods and stomachs. Finally, we must not forget the responsible operational work on the migration wave in 2015 and the activities carried out in the context of international peacekeeping missions. Investments in the Slovenian Army are investments in our country. As a mature and sovereign country, we must ensure that our army is adequately equipped to defend our territory and that it can participate proudly and responsibly in ensuring and maintaining the security of our citizens and citizens and peace in the world. Perhaps modernisation will also contribute to the greater interest of young people after joining the Slovenian Army, and we will also be able to combat the human resources subservience of our army. In the Desus Group we will support the proposal for a law on the provision of investments in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026. All our efforts in the coming months will, however, focus on the realization of the other coalition agreed points relating to the pension, healthcare and to which Members of our Group are paying further attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u8	Good day to you all! There are 780 million euros in six years. That's a little bit, actually. For the army we want to settle, that's a little bit. The problem is that so far the defence ministers have not taken care of the proper processing of the Slovenian Army, the provision of defence resources and, in particular, the last Minister Erjavec of Desus has made a huge mistake. The biggest mistake was that so-called White Paper, which unfortunately has a hard paper to use for the toilet. Otherwise, there's nothing good in there. Inconsistent, poor and incomplete. And I'm sorry that perhaps the minister still relies to some extent on this White Paper. Therefore, I think it is necessary for this matter to be reconsidered, settled and that the concept of the defence of the Republic of Slovenia should be based on a slightly different basis, modern but not those of the former SFRJ. For example, when it comes to the armoured fighting group, okay, this is probably the requirement of the Nato Pact, but the armoured fighting group in such a variant and in the form it also assumes is useless in Slovenia. Slovenia should have mobile fast units with missile anti-aircraft and anti-lock missiles, a valuable matter that can then be disposed of after use, as it is called. This is a modern system of warfare, and this system of warfare is the one that both west and east are fighting the most. These are matters of a fast mobile unit that can be implemented without problems and also cost extremely little, in short, are cheap. Within this small amount of money, however, it is also reasonable to refer to cooperation with the field of scientific research. Here there can be many areas that contribute to the Slovenian Army, to its development and to the development of this army in general. Also in the area of infrastructure. It should be noted that all roads, all railways, also belong in the military domain when it comes to transporting certain military, composition or anything else. Without it there is and it is necessary to connect everything together, and at the same time to represent it before NATO as the Czech Pact, even from that segment comes a certain percentage of us, and in this way we will be able to approach those 2% of the required budget for the military from the state budget. I think that there should also be a reflection on the production, self-produced production of defence funds. Slovenia once produced a huge amount of defence resources in cooperation with other parts of Yugoslavia, and now we are moving on to say the Iron Levels don't know what they're doing, not much, but there they were doing the best cannon and tank pipes in the world. The U.S. tank lasted 40 tons, our tank with that drill lasted 80 tons. We've wasted everything. We've destroyed everything. However, one particular segment can also be opened here in order to produce certain weapons issues in Slovenia as well. Why, in cooperation with Serbia, in cooperation with Serbia, Croatia can make over 200 million euros a year by selling certain specific systems, one would say. We don't have anything. But it seems to us that if you do something good in Slovenia, if you do something good, if you show knowledge, if you want to help, they will all run you over, especially these lions, as they say, sometimes they say "left hook", the left half of Slovenia says. Well, here we also have to take one step further. And we're absolutely going to support this 780 million, even though if we look at it, that's a hell of a lot in six years. If we take it across, it's bad, it's bad. Let's say in the first two years, only 100 million euros. Again, 100 million euros is questionable if we can do business or if we can speak properly with foreigners. The apparent problem of poor negotiation is the helicopter purchased by the State in the previous mandate of Mr Erjavce, which we have overpaid for 8 million euros. For 8 million euros, and no one was responsible for this and no one would answer, because there are certain things connected to each other and a friend of a friend will not slaughter the crows, but the crows will not turn off their eyes. That's sad, but that's how it is. We need to buy a transporter plane. I hope that in transport, the purchase of a transport aircraft will involve those who are experts in this area, not some bureaucrats from the Ministry who are either way too much. I won't talk about numbers as many as there are, but it has to be realized that there is no order in the system that programmes what needs to be obtained. If we're talking about needs, let's say armored combat teams, we need to determine exactly how much money is spent on vehicles, how much money is spent on machine guns 12.7 how much money is spent on cars 5.56 and so on. It's not, it's all done, it's so much and so many millions. What do we get out of those millions? Here, I call on the minister to take a close look at his subordinates and require exact information on how much ammunition will be bought for a matter. Now it's not specified and here you're looking a little bit over there. In short, here we need to know that the minister will have a hard time, it won't be easy. Above all, it will not be easy for that bureaucratic machine to move to the point where it will start to work as it should. In this regard, it is interesting to note that Sweden, which has a stronger army, has a substantially smaller Ministry of Defence, of course. But it's all good. In addition, Sweden also has jet aircraft. We don't have them, we have the most expensive aerobics, these are the pillatus that, in their previous mandates, the rats ate their equipment, the electrical installations of the planes, and no one was to blame for this, and the flying chickens are small, small. And if we look at what the pillatus can do, we see that this is the only place we can go for foot support and nothing more. I wonder if we are going to buy any anti-aircraft systems in this regard. If we want to defend Slovenia, we can easily defend it with missiles that will not allow the impact of foreign aircraft. The quieter the infantry incursion, the more I'm not afraid of it. Despite poor weapons, Slovenian soldiers are good, extremely good. Fighting and loving their homeland, unlike many in here too, which is sad that there are people in here who are willing to sell their country that I don't know what nonsense. That's fucking sad. But it's a matter of getting things right and knowing where something fits. The funding will be sought, they will try to take them on various routes to various private areas of interest, and the Minister will have to be very careful here. I hope he's got a team to take this thing away from him. I also hope that a team that can understand what our own production of defence resources can do in Slovenia, what we can do and, above all, that money will not be thrown in just so long and so far for some bureaucratic matters or for some studies that do not have tails or heads, let alone any benefits. We will absolutely support this law. However, I think we will discuss the exact schedules of financial resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to the guests from the Ministry. At the hearing, we have a proposal for a Law on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian military from 2021 to 2026. Dear, the Slovenian army is a constitutional category. This is because we Slovenians were already aware of the fact that without an army there is no safe state of Slovenia and this was confirmed by the war on Slovenia. The suspension and reduction of the readiness of the Slovenian military was triggered by the financial and economic crisis, when the defence director disproportionately divided the fate of the stabilisation of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia and when defence expenditure after 2010 fell from 1.61% of gross domestic product, below GDP, to 0.93% of GDP in 2015 The absence of the necessary development resources is reflected in the state of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which has been assessed by insufficient assessment of the operation of the crisis or war since 2013 and since Slovenia's entry into NATO Slovenia to this Atlantic connection, that is to say, we promise our allies that we will meet the commitments made by the Treaty. These commitments account for 2% of GDP, and this contract is the result of a referendum in which citizens of the Republic of Slovenia decided that we would be safer as a NATO member. And now, from the Alliance, we are quite anxious to be warned that we do not keep our word. On the one hand, we expect assistance from the Alliance for our defence and support of the top military techniques and equipment used by the Member States of NATO and, on the other hand, we are delaying the fulfilment of these promises and written commitments, and we are saving. Well, let me make amends, stall and save the last two governments, even after the financial situation has improved since the years of this crisis. The Alliance's key messages during the January 2020 review of the defence capacity of the Republic of Slovenia were: failure to provide adequate funding is due to a critical lack of political will. Slovenia's defence is not important nor does it take up an approximate share in providing collective defence. The following statement from the state assessment is: the inadmissibility of putting aside the only priority for the establishment of a medium battalion fighting group since 2010, which limits the Slovenian Armed Forces to the most unsolicited tasks. So, without further ado, and I do not want to appear again in the light of the unworthy member of NATO and the European Union. The Republic of Slovenia needs the Slovenian Army, which will be able to defend the country and participate in ensuring the security of the state and citizens and in ensuring or establishing peace in the world. And we must be aware that this government will ensure the safety of its citizens and the decent life and work of its soldiers. It also requires a minister with a spine to keep his word. The Minister of Defence Tonin said to our satisfaction at the latest presentation of these investments, which today's proposal for a law on the provision of defence funds said: "It is no longer possible to save and save on the account of the security of citizens and the Slovenian Armed Forces." The law will therefore provide funds for the implementation of the most important investments in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026, which constitute the establishment and provision of key military capacities, determined in order, scope and dynamics with the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the medium-term defence programmes. The law regulates the spending of €700 million, with annual spending in the first two years, i.e. in 2021 and in 2022 at €100 million. Over the next 4 years, 145 million euros a year. The amount of resources set at the annual level may also be higher in individual years by an amount which, due to objective circumstances, cannot be realised or could not be realised in previous years, but cannot exceed EUR 160 million per year. And this is not all new and not only planned by the current government, but they are in this package, so to speak, already covered by existing and previously concluded contracts for purchases of equipment. However, it is essential equipment that assures us that our soldiers can participate in military exercises with international participation, in the so-called rotations of European Union troops and in peacekeeping missions abroad. Therefore, the arms systems and military equipment to be procured under this Act will have to comply with the standards in force in NATO or its connectivity with the systems and equipment used in the alliance will have to be ensured. These standards or requirements are also used meaningfully to provide the necessary infrastructure and other conditions necessary for the establishment of planned military capabilities, so it is now necessary to emphasise that not only are the funds for armoured personnel, helicopters and so on, but they are also the means to provide the necessary infrastructure what we need ourselves, our Slovenian Army and also what is needed for the joint tasks of the Alliance. So far that this number may be heard, these millions are really huge to someone, but we must be aware that Slovenian soldiers cannot be sent to the field. So for training in Slovenia or abroad in thirty-year-old vehicles and with outdated techniques. The present law introduced by the Government in the legislative procedure means the fulfilment of its own commitments to the Alliance and is a clear signal that Slovenia takes its security seriously. We will support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group because we take our security seriously as well as our sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Although the law is relatively short in terms of articles and content, it is financially so ambitious that it may deserve a few more words and a slightly deeper approach. In reviewing the media records of the last ten or twenty years that have arisen during the discussions on the financing of the Slovenian Armed Forces, we are constantly running into titles – either cannons or butter, butter or cannons, and whether this is really the real dilemma of the entire period of our independence. Could it not be an artificial dilemma created by all past policies that could not reconcile it? We need both, last year in this House said the President of the current government, Marjan Sarec. We are aware of the need to strengthen and effectively operate the national security system, which needs to adapt to new threats. This was also reflected in the mandate of the previous Government in the preparation of a new resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and in the definition of new security threats, as well as in the White Paper on Defence and the allocation of additional financial resources in the national security system. An important part of this system of national security, including the Slovenian Armed Forces defence system, which is not only important for the defence of the country, but also, as experience shows, for the wider support of other state authorities and citizens in various crisis situations. Let me remind you of natural disasters, such as the stomach, floods, or the current epidemic. At the time of the government of Marjana Sharca, security was one of the priorities. That is why we have accordingly increased the resources for the defence budget by around €40 million and the share of funds for defence investments. At the time of its term of office, the current Government has taken most of this increase away from the defence budget. But she did return something later. With the adoption of the White Paper on Defence in January this year, guidelines were drawn at the strategic level at the time of our Government to fully address the main challenges of the defence system. Among the identified twenty defence measures, including the issue of modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces or the preparation of legal solutions for the implementation of key Slovenian Armed Forces equipment projects. Accordingly, the draft legislative proposal that we have in preparation today at the omise at the time of the previous Government was also based on the decision of the then Defence Committee. So it is not something entirely new, as the distinguished Minister of Tonin boasts, when he says he is moving, which has cost ten years. I'm sure it hasn't been worth the last half-second year. Maybe he didn't notice the movements or he didn't want to admit them to anyone else. Maybe except for yourself. In view of the above, we can therefore be satisfied that, in the interests of the defence system, things are moving in the direction of solutions, as outlined by the previous Government, because they have been well thought out and their aim is to ensure an effective defence system, transparency, reporting and control over investments in military equipment. The implementation of the White Paper guidelines should be reflected in a new resolution on the long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces and in the new medium-term defence programme. However, these documents have not yet been received or dealt with by the National Assembly, and it would seem logical to first confirm that the framework they define as a fundamental basis for this law, particularly in the context of modern threats and medium-term financial projections, which are of course changing. For the current medium-term defence programme 2018-2023 you mention in the material that you will update it while at the same time stating that it is based on a medium-term financial projection that takes into account the assessments of the recovery of economic activity in Slovenia. The decision is therefore clear: it is a mildly said at least inappropriate projection in the current situation, but we know that a significant fall in gross domestic product is to be expected. As regards defence investments, two laws were adopted in the past for the period 1994-2007 and 2008-2015. We did not implement the other because of the financial crisis. 120 million of the estimated €710 million were realised. Therefore, due to the wider macroeconomic picture, it has not achieved an impact. As a result of the austerity measures, the defence sector lost a lot of resources, resulting in a developmental backlog. Since we are undoubtedly approaching similar or even worse situations in the future than during the previous financial crisis, we are asked in the List of Marjan Šarca what the real feasibility of the law is. How will the projected fixed amounts of investment funds, ranging from 100 to 145 million per year, be effectively secured by 2026? How can this be realistic in the context of an economic and social crisis or a decline in economic growth? Will the military really be a priority? And, Minister, do you think people will understand that in these circumstances? They will understand, for example, the need for transport aircraft, helicopters, logistics and medical equipment for soldiers. It will be more difficult to convince people in this situation to buy up to €408 million in war vehicles. Therefore, due to excessive eyes, a similar fate can very likely befall the former one — that is, to remain a dead letter on paper, which the defence system and the Slovenian army certainly do not deserve. In view of the above, we are convinced that a fixed record of the amount of annual resources allocated in law 100 and 145 million per year is likely to be unrealistic. It is inconsistent with public financial or macroeconomic practice on the sustainability of public finances or should take into account a broader public financial picture. In the material you state that the financing for the investment in the Slovenian Army for 2021 will have to be provided with changes to the budget for 2021 and all other budgets for the period 2022-2026. Therefore, budget planning for next year and the macroeconomic forecast are likely to bring a sobering effect. In any event, it is the letter on paper and will reflect the actual realization and resolution of each budget preparation or of the law on the implementation of the budget. Therefore, we propose a different definition, one that takes into account a more realistic picture of public finances, in the List of Marjan Šarc. It would therefore be acquisitions within the framework of the estimated economic capacity in the country, and purchases would still be systemic, predictable and transparent. In view of the previously agreed increase in nominal amounts for the defence budget following a decision of the Government following a strategic review of the defence in 2016 of approximately EUR 30 million per year, we propose that the defence budget be allocated some EUR 50 million per year and then, in the framework of the annual plans defined by the Government, which equipment will have a priority within the envisaged financial scope. With regard to the envisaged framework or main equipment package, we find that it is largely based on agreed international capacity-building commitments other than a tactical transport aircraft. Since we do not have a new long-term programme for the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 and a new medium-term defence programme for 2021-2026, which you are predicting, Minister, we cannot see more clearly which systems will be this or what will change in the preparation according to the current documents. The responsibility of each government is to set priorities. The epidemic is a new unforeseen situation that needs to be taken into account in the design and implementation of short- and medium-term plans. The question is therefore raised whether it would not necessarily be necessary for the uncertain future to divert part of the funds envisaged to areas that are and will be most affected by the epidemic. We therefore propose to consider different more realistic values for investments in the Slovenian Army. Over five months, the current budget has proved to be more than 1.2 billion deficits, and budget expenditure due to support measures for the population and the economy is expected to continue to increase in the future and inflows are likely to decrease. In terms of fiscal sustainability, in our view, the adoption of legislation with such extensive financial implications before the budget rebalancing is said to be irresponsible, irresponsible to the Slovenian Army, which thus arouses unrealistic expectations. It is also irresponsible for countries and people who need some speeding policies more quickly. In order to achieve the projected level of investment, it will therefore be necessary to increase the inflows to the State budget. Key actions include promoting domestic consumption, which represents more than two-thirds of the budget. Unfortunately, our idea of temporary and universal income as a generator of domestic consumption has not been recognized as one of the important factors in the recovery of the economy. We also point to the need for real investment planning, which must be consistent with the objectives and resources, and especially with human resources. So not just buying equipment and techniques to fulfill the commitment to the Alliance if on the other hand we are not able to adequately complete the Slovenian Armed Forces' personnel. Then who will use this equipment? Of course, there is also a question of ensuring transparency in the implementation of investments. Although the bill foresees some mechanisms, in Slovenia we have not been able to make any such purchases without having an affair and clearing up who has benefited from it. The untransparent purchase of protective medical equipment has cast such a shadow of doubt as to the credibility of this government that doubts in your subsequent purchases are justified, particularly when it comes to military equipment that is not already subject to the legality of traditional public procurement. And if I do, we don't have a dilemma or cannons or butter in the List of Marjan Šarc, we are in a situation where we need both, but of course we need to find the right balance. One must not rule out the other. Therefore, we advocate a sober planning of investments in the Slovenian Army. In the past, unrealistic plans or inability to find this balance have already led us to ignore the defence security system. Also because we planned investments in him unrealistically. This time we have the opportunity to correct this mistake from the past. Correct in a way that will be publicly financially sustainable and will take account of the new situation caused by the epidemic. We will not support the marriage because of everything mentioned in the List of Marjan Sarcas. However, we expect you to take into account that if the law continues the parliamentary path, our warnings and well-intentioned guidance. In caring for the Slovenian defence and security system, we need to push all parties' interests together and adopt solutions, of course, realistically feasible solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented only by Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! We have before us a debate on a proposal for a law which, according to the number of articles, is not demanding and its complexity is measured at EUR 780 million. About the millions that the government is supposed to use to invest in the Slovenian Army. The law therefore provides that the Republic of Slovenia will provide a substantial part of the budget for investments over the next six years, between 2021 and 2026, to establish the most important military capacity to fulfil the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces and to participate in the collective defence system during that period. It is also noted from the explanation of the proposal that the envisaged funds amounting to EUR 780 million are intended, inter alia, for military aviation, combat and transport vehicles and for the communication information and missile system, cyber defence and infantry weapons and equipment. We are aware that the composition of the Slovenian Army is becoming increasingly fragmented. The number of soldiers is falling, and the interest in young people joining the army is at an alarmingly low level. The equipment has not been invested in the past. The last major purchase, the Patrie, has turned into an arms affair that certainly did not help the Slovenian military to develop, not even to trust the policy of spending resources on defence. Let us recall, however, that a resolution was adopted 10 years ago on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025. And that we also have adopted others for the military important strategic plans, such as the medium-term defence programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2018-2023. In order to highlight these two documents. Why? As they were adopted on the basis of the assumption that we will survive the financial and economic crisis, that a successful economic cycle will be relaunched, which will help to achieve a more stable state budget, and the country will also be able to devote more resources to the development and modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in addition to servicing important public affairs. After the record budget of 2019 and the favourable indicators of economic activity for 2020, we all hoped that we would finally be able to devote more budget resources to the health system, to investments in urgently needed infrastructure, and that these would be roads, hospitals, nursing homes, school and cultural facilities and, finally, to the military. So in 2020 we entered with great expectations and plans. And as if trained by the Coronavirus epidemic, our expectations and goals have been reversed and moved to some other time. Economic activity has fallen considerably. There are also worrying relatively unstable forecasts for the future when the world’s epidemiological picture changes from week to week, from day to day. Moreover, even for Slovenia, probably no one expected such a rapid deterioration after the first wave of the epidemic in such a short time before autumn. As has already been said, the priorities of our country of coronaryism are strong, strong, and even in the way that the focus has completely shifted to solving the health crisis, and for it the coming social crisis, in which we rightly fear that we have not yet reached its summit despite the measures taken against the coronation. We cannot, of course, overlook that our economy depends heavily on economic activity in the euro area. According to international institutions, the decline in the economic activity of the euro area in the second quarter due to measures to curb the spread of the COVID-19 epidemic has further deepened. What will be the extent and duration of the epidemic or pandemic is a great mystery, leaving a large unknown issue of the stable implementation of the state budget. The needs of many areas, including defence, which I stress urgently need comprehensive and strategic moves forward, are realistic and justified. Not only in fulfilling our obligations to the international associations in which we are involved and the documents already adopted, but, in particular, to our undernourished army, to our soldiers and soldiers who are rightly waiting for measures to improve their status. Respectable. As a result of the wider context of coronaryism, which brings strong stimuli of economic activity along with all the changing challenges in the field of health and social policy, the Social Democrats are very reserved in these circumstances to the purpose and hurry for the apparent increase of the budgetary resources for the investment cycle in the Slovenian Army. That is why we will abstain from voting on the law at first reading in our parliamentary group. At the same time, we are also wondering why the proposal for a law must be so hasty. Also in view of the proposaler's comments, which says that by Wednesday 2020 – and in the middle of the year, we are now preparing a new motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian army by 2035 and that by the end of 2020 a new medium-term defence programme for the period 2021-2026 will be adopted by the government. We are all the more convinced of this that a better general debate on the proposal of the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian military in the years 2021 to 2026 could be held at one of the regular meetings in the autumn period. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be moved by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u16	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. The defence system is one of the foundations of our country's sovereignty and sovereignty. A good decade ago, during the economic crisis, all investments in the modernisation of the Slovenian army were stopped due to austerity measures. Priority was then needed to provide funds for its regular operation. The defence sector has therefore contributed disproportionately to the stabilisation of public finances. The defence expenditure fell from 1.61% of GDP to only 0.93% of GDP in 2015 to a reduction in defence expenditure only stopped at a time when the government was run by the Modern Centre Party. At that time, a decision was taken on the continuous increase in defence resources in the next medium term. During that mandate, defence spending thus increased by a total of EUR 100 million and the salaries of soldiers by even 30%. In the Modern Centre Party Group, we are aware that ad-hoc investment funds still do not provide the necessary development leap and modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces to enable such capacity-building as long-term development programmes and commitments under the NATO Alliance. We therefore agree with the proposed law on the provision of funds for the Slovenian Army from 2021 to 2026, as it will gradually, in six years, allow the provision of resources for defence purposes totalling EUR 780 million. In order to ensure effective control over the implementation of this law, the Government will report annually to the National Assembly. And why is this marriage so important? Since the Slovenian Army has been assessed since 2013 by an assessment insufficient to function in the crisis or in the war, in particular due to the lack of the necessary development resources. The indisputable fact is that we need an army capable of effectively ensuring the security of the state and citizens and also of participating in international missions in the establishment of peace in various parts of the world. The Republic of Slovenia is currently an Allied then one of the members with the lowest share of GDP allocated to defence capabilities. This percentage is 1.06 % of GDP this year, and by this criterion in 2019 and 2020 we thus hold 25 seats from the total 30 Member States of NATO. We are also meeting the 27th metre on the percentage of defence expenditure earmarked for investments. Let me remind you that in 2014, all NATO Member States committed themselves to bringing their defence expenditure closer to 2% of GDP in the ten years to 2024. In this particular context, I stress that we are talking about spending on the operation and development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, that is, our own defence capabilities, and this is not an issue for the NATO Alliance. This year, too, the White Paper on Defence states that the share of GDP for defence expenditure should gradually rise to 1.5% by 2024 and that the second phase by 2035 at the latest aims to achieve 2% of GDP. The White Paper foresees a gradual increase in these defence expenditures and will focus mainly on the investment and modernisation of Slovenian Armed Forces units, on the modernisation of military infrastructure and equipment, as well as on the regulation of the material status of soldiers. However, the legal basis for all of these is the law under consideration today. In the SMC Group, we agree with this dynamic. We believe that our professional army needs modern equipment, uniforms, weapons and appropriate infrastructure and logistics capabilities to carry out its functions and tasks, including protection and resolution tasks. In the use of defence resources, we stress in particular the need for transparent purchases and optimisation of costs, as well as the search for opportunities for joint purchases with other countries or within the framework of European Union agencies and NATO and intergovernmental agreements. Finally, we would like to stress in particular that security is one of the fundamental conditions for the operation and development of our society and the country. The Republic of Slovenia is a country with a high level of security, but an increasingly dynamic and complex international security environment we must work very actively and continuously towards maintaining such a level of security. For all of this we will confirm in the SMC Group's message that the proposal for this law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u18	Residents and residents of Slovenia are at risk. The public health system, which has been ravaged by neoliberal privatisation and austerity policies, would necessarily need more than 100 million euros just to keep it above water. There's no money. Residents and residents, especially young people, have been facing housing shortages for decades. Just to meet current needs, we would need the immediate construction of 10,000 public rental apartments. There's no money. Immediately we need new homes for older citizens with about 11,000 beds. There's no money. At least one or two new student homes would be needed in each university city. There's no money. Under the poverty threshold, there are a quarter of a million inhabitants, of whom more than 40,000 are children. There's no money for them either. On top of that, we are being threatened by an ever-increasing climate crisis, hundreds of unnecessary deaths due to environmental swine fever and one of the worst economic crises since World War II. There's no money for all of this, and it'll be even less. Under the government of Janez Janša, austerity measures are again being drawn. At the same time, the same government found money for weapons. Not just change, but huge, unimaginable 780 million euros for armored, mortars, missiles, machine guns, bombs, special forces aviation and other future old iron. Of course, Slovenia does not buy weapons for its own safety, as ladies and gentlemen wish to convince us. They buy it to participate in the expeditions of the Nato Pact, to support imperialism and profit-making military industrial complexes of world capitalism. It must be known, however, that it will be difficult to provide every million needed from the budget for the infection clinic, said Minister Gantar, literally. No problem, there are 780 million weapons here, immediately attached by Minister Tonin and brought in the law that we are considering today. While at the threshold of the Second Wave of the New Corona Epidemic, the Minister of Health has found it difficult to find every million for a new infectious clinic, the Minister of Defense has found more than three quarters of a billion for weapons. Ladies and gentlemen, the weapons of the NATO Pact in the Government and Parliament, in Hrastnik and in the old people's home, the outbreak is on the rise. How your weapons will help the inhabitants of Zasav, the nurses, the paramedics, the elderly and their relatives, will not. Every cent involved in weapons is a minus in the budget for the health and care of the elderly. If not in Hrastnik, in another Slovenian place. In such directions, the second wave of the coronary epidemic rubs the hair. Incompetence in the field, suffering for the people. The shortage of money in health, social, education and elsewhere is directly linked to the purchase of weapons, the game of zero sum. No matter what, they're convincing us that everything needs to be built. If you take one million for something in a given amount of money, that million will, of course, run out for something else. That is why the country's financial policy is indeed a priority. If the governing policy with the law it adopts today spends 780 million on weapons, this 780 million will be lost elsewhere, for public interest, for public health, for the welfare of the population and the population, for nature, for the environment, even for the actual security where it counts. None of this is of course of interest to the authorities. Just look at the preparation for the second wave. During the months of preparation, the government of Janez Janša was not capable of any other than unconstitutional applications to control us. And press 780 million for new weapons affairs. She's in such a hurry. He well knows that the vast majority of people are strongly opposed to throwing money for arms transactions, which the bureaucracy of the then Pact once gave at a meeting in the past of any public debate by some now forgotten government minister. Respect for the commitments made to the NATO Pact, which the Government so likes to refer to, means conjugating the commitments made to its own people from which this country lives. The purchases of weapons for the NATO Pact under the cover of security are also the face of incompetence of power. Slovenia is not militarily threatened. No neighbouring country threatens us, and we have no enemies in the neighborhood or in the world. Even government officials admit that. So much more real are the threats to public health and the health system as a whole. The Ljubljana Infectious Clinic is a 120-year-old building. The hospital in Celje also has rooms from 1887, in some rooms there is no water, in one room there is up to 7 patients. At the premises of an infection in Maribor they can't even turn beds sick for COVID-19 they were treated elsewhere. In Petra State the walls repent and windows do not tighten, bathrooms are useless, in some parts there are no sanitary facilities. In Jesenice, rehabilitation facilities were renovated with donations. The list isn't nearly exhausted. The scenes of chemotherapy in the basement corridors were a reality before the epidemic, which is just the tip of the iceberg. We have an intervention law on the table for investments in public hospitals, for example. The law of consideration in the purest form reflected the nature of the governing policy. It's a dishonorable nature. The President of the Government, ministers and ruling Members are nothing more than a half-colonial servant of masters from Washington, Paris, London and Brussels. The elected in Slovenia serve foreign power centres, instead of Slovenian citizens represent the interests of capital, they are the employees of the Next Pact, as people call them, and Minister Tonin is a typical representative. WHEN the previous government wanted to buy some 10 shells for more than 100 million euros, he said from opposition benches, quote: "To make it wiser, millions of euros instead of buying armored people invested in strengthening cyber capabilities." End of quote. When he became Minister, if he had any sense, he left it at the door of Morse, kneeled before the U.S. dictatorship, and bewitched the law, which would provide 408 million euros for such cybersecurity and less than a tenth of the same amount for armoured men. [[Incomprehensible]] All of this lobbyists then say in Slovenian politics that any weapon can also be used for defence, protection and rescue. You can, but not this weapon and in such a Slovenian army. The latter, in two decades, has degraded the ruling policy into a support fund for operations of the NATO Pact abroad and the extension of the police at the southern border. The State's independent military defence is not capable, even in its doctrine with or without weapons for EUR 780 million, so that there will be no mistake. The armoured men you want to buy are suitable for steppes and deserts ten thousand kilometers outside our borders, and the helicopter aid would have privatized Minister Tonin's client anyway. How many gallons will the bombers save, how many fires will the missiles put out, how many floods will the hoodies recover? If we want protection and rescue, then we also strengthen the protection and rescue. For such a direction that serves the needs of people you can always count on us in Levica, there is no problem. But the reference to civil action in the context of 780 million heavy arms dealing is something else entirely, a fabrication drawn to hair. Therefore, once again, the purchases of weapons under this law are not purchases of weapons for our security, they are purchases at the order of the Nato Pact and for the profits of its military industrial complexes. There are purchases that threaten our safety. For the first time, when they take the resources we need to build hospitals, non-profit apartments, homes for the elderly, to improve the quality of air, soil, water, to eradicate poverty and so on. Secondly, by imposing precisely interventions on behalf of security and in fact corporate greed and control over raw materials bases and logistics routes, crisis hotspots create the most. To conclude our promise of Janez Janša's government buying weapons gives us a sense of the weapons affair of the '90s and Patrio's affair. These promises further and fully confirm recent purchases of masks, respirators and other equipment to combat the Coronavirus epidemic. The law that we are considering today is the legal basis for the rerun of the Patria affair. In Levica, we requested a general debate so that the public could participate in the decision on the acquisition of weapons, which in fact could be a decision on social priorities. But ladies and gentlemen of the coalition want a quiet decision as quickly as possible, away from the public's eyes, which rejects the purchase of weapons instead of investments in prosperity and development. Not to interfere with agreements with NATO bureaucrats and shivering on foreign February's shoulders with this annoying thing called democracy. Therefore, the public debate on the law did not last for two weeks and we must therefore discuss the law at an extraordinary meeting convened within two days, during parliamentary holidays. For armoured and other weapons, the Government of Janez Janša would rip almost EUR 400 out of every citizen's mouth. 400 euros each of us for 780 million euros that could be spent in 780 million better ways. In Levi, of course, we will vote against the law and do everything in our power to ensure that the crazy purchase of arms for occupations never sees the light of the world, and instead, the crisis of public health, youth housing and home for the elderly is quickly resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have just heard from the representative of the Left quite a few insults from the minister, even the family of ministers, the whole government, the coalition and so on. Such rhetoric does not belong to the National Assembly; not least a few days ago in the National Assembly, we adopted an ethical code of Members and Members. In this case, I expect you, Mr Vice President, to be the one to initiate appropriate procedures for the college in accordance with the Code of Ethics. And I expect this debate to go on in some cultural dialogue. We have no problem with the fact that Levica wants solutions that will go in the direction of the destruction of the Slovenian Army or the country, but we have problems with non-compliance with the ethical code, with the insults of us, ministers and so on. This does not belong to the Slovenian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I expect you, as a group of Members, to also address the request for a debate at the College of the President of the National Assembly. Procedurally Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. What we just heard was not really any serious procedural intervention. So, President, I propose that you reject what Mr Horvat of New Slovenia has said and, after all, Mr Horvat is one of the Members who has been lying far and wide in the last month in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u23	My colleague Kordish, I remind you, I hope this will not happen again in the debate, because I will consistently sanction the debate, the insults and other things. I now give the floor to the representative of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Andrei Chernigo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u24	Mr President, honourable Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The families of Slovenk and Slovenes longed for a piece of land in history, where they themselves would be their master. Without military organisation, without the determination of the soldiers, Rudolph Maister, the heart first territorial defence and then the Slovenian Army would not be able to realize this thousand-year dream. The Slovenian army was formed in 1993 from the then territorial defence of the Republic of Slovenia and was originally based on the recruitment system. In 2003, the system was shut down and replaced by a professional army. On the big referendum Sunday of 23 March 2003, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with a two-thirds majority and 635 thousand 864 votes in favour of Slovenia's accession to NATO. With this commitment and commitment, Slovenian citizens have confirmed that they want to further develop the Slovenian Army within the framework of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership. If we want the Slovenian Army to remain a modern armed force capable of carrying out various tasks at home and throughout the world, we need to provide it with minimal means to be well equipped and fully humanely equipped. When the economic crisis came, the Slovenian Army was the first to strike, and funds were too easy to absorb in the state budget since 2010. She had difficulty maintaining her basic function, and of any development, there was no way to talk about large cuts. [[…]] The means for the Slovenian Army have not even returned to the pre-crisis level when we have re-recorded a positive trend in economic growth in recent years, even when this temple of democracy has adopted a record budget in Slovenian history. We have reached this point where it is difficult to close our eyes and even less turn our eyes away from the urgent needs of the Slovenian Army, which we absolutely need. With it, the country ensures the security of citizens and citizens and a sense of security in these unpredictable and uncertain times is still very important. That is why in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we support the law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army. They would provide funds for the most important investments in our military, spending 100 million euros on them in the first two years and 145 million euros in the next four years. In our opinion, the adoption of this law is a prerequisite for the Slovenian Armed Forces to plan its investments in the longer term, as it will be able to conclude multi-annual contracts in the provision of arms systems and military equipment, which will also make commitments for a longer period than the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is adopted. Transparency of purchases will be taken care of as investments will be book-based so as to show which military equipment, arms or other assets have been financed by means of this Act. All purchases will be reasonable and necessary, but they will have to meet all of Nate's standards. They are at the Slovenian Army, we are proud and trusted by the citizens, and we must make sure that this trust is further strengthened at home and abroad. Unfortunately, the Slovenian Army has been making negative assessments for years to prepare for action in the war. Not because of our members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, who always perform their tasks excellently in the given circumstances, but because of the failed promises of the past governments. We must become a credible partner of the Alliance. We've broken our commitments to partner countries too often. When we compare defence expenditure data and military investments between NATO members, we agree to the unenviable last places. It is time for us to begin fulfilling our commitments in NATO today. After that, it is the cheapest insurance policy for Slovenia. Together, we share defence expenditure, which makes defence much cheaper than if we developed all our capacities on our own, such as in Austria or Switzerland. The proposed investments are carefully and comprehensively planned in order to improve the state of the defence and security system as a whole. Our commitment was to form two battalion groups. These investments, however, first of all ensure the formation of the first group. The funds will be designed to build and restore military infrastructure, and appropriate equipment will be provided to Slovenian soldiers and soldiers. They deserve this because they are willing to sacrifice their lives at home and abroad at any time. We cannot allow our soldiers to be in danger or even injured because their equipment is inadequate. We also need to ensure the ability of our own logistics capability, which is becoming increasingly difficult to achieve by aircraft from 1988 and older types of helicopters. The purchase of two new transport helicopters will also be very helpful in emergency rescue and the need for medical assistance in Slovenia. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we believe that the necessary investments are made very rationally. If we want to make all the promises of the past governments come true, we should invest more than €3 billion in the Slovenian Army. We are therefore convinced that the stake of 780 million over the six years is extremely rational and carefully weighed. We are aware that without investment in our army in a few years after the Slovenian Army, we will no longer be able to speak. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, we will unanimously support the law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army, because we want the Slovenian army to become agile, flexible, fast and efficient and capable of putting itself at the brink of all challenges in the future. Our Slovenian army must be able to provide defence, security for our only country. Let's stop fooling around. The idea that we don't need an army anymore is unacceptable. Slovenians need to know our history in detail so that we can do everything we can not do again. So here I would have highlighted the words of Slovenian poet Simon Gregocic, whose prophetic words had unfortunately been fulfilled more than 100 years ago: above you will be a clear hail, and around you will be a torrent of lead and rain, and a stream of blood and tears, and a flash and thunder, oh, the battle is hot; then will the bridle run out, and you will bleed me. May the poet's words remind us that we are living in a secure world and that we need a strong security defence network even more. Today, colleagues and colleagues, the Slovenian army needs our help. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will respond to the call and contribute their votes to support the law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army, so that ours can continue to successfully combat various threats, fight terrorism, fight cyber attacks and adequately help our citizens and citizens in the face of natural and other disasters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The general debate will be held between Members and Members on the draft law. First, I give the floor to the Minister of Magi. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u26	I would like to start by thanking all the parliamentary groups that have announced support for this law. I would also like to make this whole law and all these investments in some context. This government, which you think is so terrible in the opposition, has divided one billion euros within three months of its operation among the people. The law before us today is that in six years, 780 million euros should be spent for all the investments that exist in the Slovenian army. So much for when you talk about cannons, butter, if now for weapons and similar things there will be money, for the rest there will be no. Within three months, billions are divided into human beings. With regard to the health situation and when some want to compare it with the defense. For health care we spend more than €3 billion annually, the defence budget there is about 500 million and 0.5 billion. It is also true that this economic growth that we have witnessed in recent years has brought about 600 million euros more money in health insurance due to higher wages and higher payments. This is more than the entire Slovenian defence budget. Let us ask ourselves if this makes our health care any better. The facts tell us that this is a matter of real urgency. As violent as he paid for the defense system in the last crisis, no other department paid for it. They didn't halve the budget for any of the other resources. In recent decades, thousands of soldiers have left the army. And we can't fool around anymore. And it's either a simple decision or an army we want or we don't want. Those of you who have been critical of this law, please tell us that we are politically committed to bringing the army to an end. This could be a legitimate political position that I'm not challenging. But you cannot demand that the army die in a living body, that we have fewer soldiers on paper each year, and with 30 years of iron. Things are moving on, things are changing substantially, and something has to be done urgently. First of all, what this law is based on. Based on existing strategic and planning documents. When I came to the defence ministers, I did not ask for strategic reviews, a new strategy, a new White Paper, and I bought time, but I said that I just wanted to do what was written in the existing documents adopted by the Sharchev government, the Cerari government and all the previous governments, nothing but what the existing documents say. And all that is in the law, including a transport aircraft, which some of you mentioned was not mentioned in the documents. This is also part of the strategic-plan documents. We've done everything on that basis. And there have been extensive debates in this House on all matters. Now you see that there is not enough debate as to how this is all too quickly, how this is all extraordinary, but all of these things that are in the law, which is just an implementing act for what has been written in the resolutions, in the strategies, in the White Papers, are just an implementing act, in all those things there have been extensive debates in this House and now it is clear that there was no debate. Is it big or is it small? I think victory is right for a nobleman when he says it's a small amount of money. The military itself has calculated to achieve only what policy in the resolution and other planning documents has planned for the military to need 3 billion euros in the coming years. It makes sense that this money is gone, and it probably won't be in all of these stories that we have because of COVID. I'm afraid this money is not as if we needed it in its entirety. The real deal is €780 million. And that's exactly what Member Medved said, we added 50 million euros a year to the existing defence budgets, as much as he said that they had already thought about it in the previous Government, and this government thought similarly, because we were getting data from the Ministry of Finance, as much as we could in the coming years for this defence budget, we were not doing anything. The feasibility of the law was a question. Is this law enforceable? Yes, look, my dears, I think that everyone who sits in this house must be the law of the sacred thing, that there is no law there a letter on paper that no one respects. I understand that if this is adopted in law, it is a fact that everyone in this house must respect. Member Medved said, "We have already planned this, we have already done this." Great. I do not deny you anything, but I do not understand that I am doing exactly what Marjan Sarec wrote to Secretary General Stoltenberg, where he wrote in his letter that Slovenia will devote 1.5% of GDP to defence, that you say that I am doing what my predecessors have already done. No problem, great, I can give you all the credit, but I don't understand you, because if I do everything you've done before me, now you don't support this law. I don't understand that. If we do what Marjan Sarec promised Stoltenberg in a letter. I didn't write that letter, and he did. That this is unrealistic and irresponsible. So far, planning in the defence area has been unrealistic and irresponsible. Those who have been working in this area for a long time know that if you want to buy a matter, if you want to realize a matter, it is not a matter of one annual budget, but it is a matter of many years and it has been and this is the real thing that they have warned me about at the Ministry of Defense, it is impossible to do anything because there is no predictable financial means, because today there can be so much in the budget, tomorrow is something else, today you sign a contract for it, for this helicopter, and in the next budget you find that you have no money and that is simply not working. And I'm not smart enough and smart enough to invent these things myself now, but they made it clear on the defense department that if we want to take a step forward, then don't talk to us about percentages, then we need a fixed amount, because if we have fixed amounts, then we can plan the matter up, mid-term in the next six years. And that's why it's real, and it's responsible, because it ensures predictability for the defence department over the next six years. What are we gonna get? Now I have had the opportunity to visit virtually all brigades, which are some of the barracks, I tell you that infrastructure is extremely poor, most of these barracks were built in the 1970s, during the JLA, things are falling apart, to maintain huge costs, and therefore some of the considerations at the General Staff of the Slovenian Army are certainly in place that claim that it would be better to level these old barracks with the ground and set up new modular sample facilities that we can set up here, there and elsewhere. And what Member Victory Jelinčič Noblemeniti said, yes, this, this Ministry of Defence will also invest in research and development, you could read in Finance days ago that it will be first installed in the Cranian Army, an installation where we will use hydrogen to generate energy and that this hydrogen energy will not only be available to military vehicles, but also to civilian vehicles, and we plan to do so in 5 other barracks. Not only do we provide money for better infrastructure, we also provide cyber defence. For me, cyber defense is extremely important, and I agree with what all aircraft carriers, all cannons, hoodies, tanks, whatever, if they can virtually stop you with some cyber attack and impoverish the country for 14 or more days. I am aware of this and therefore we have taken a number of measures at the Ministry of Defence and are already developing cyber capabilities, defences that will cost us more than €10 million, but we are developing them and I believe that within a year, years and a half, these capacities will be developed and will also make Slovenia safer. So, Ambassador Kordish, I have not forgotten what I said in the opposition, and I am doing exactly what I said in the opposition, and I am now working in the ministry. Because I think cyber defense is important. The project is being driven, it will cost more than €10 million and important capacities will be developed, and this law is also important for this investment. The personal equipment of the soldiers will also be financed by this law, and we want to provide the best equipment for the soldiers. Then, a transport plane, now it's a shame, because I don't have any more of these slides to present to you this turbolet of ours, which took 23 years to Covida. [[Incomprehensible]] An extremely useful, good aircraft, built in 1988, but unfortunately it is slowly reaching its deadline. His weakness was also that, unfortunately, he could only carry 700 pounds [700 kg] of equipment. In this crisis it has proved to be extremely important and the transport aircraft has been trying to get in 2006 and then because of some of the many circumstances this has not happened, but the transport aircraft this country urgently needs, it needs for a variety of logistics services, including for human transport, and I think that the transport aircraft will be more than justifiable for its purpose. We have no unrealistic ambitions, we will not buy planes that will cost more than the entire defence budget, because buying a plane is one thing, and then maintaining it, providing the crew is another thing. In short, we have a fundamental consideration of what Slovenia can afford, and in fact we need a transport aircraft. Second thing, helicopters – besides the Cougars, our helicopter fleet is extremely old. Now, before we decide to invest more than 15 million euros in renovating, we have renewed eight Bell helicopters so that we can extend their lifetime by ten to fifteen years. We'll do it if this law is passed. We're also going to buy two new transport helicopters. We also signed up for two transport helicopters, which we would buy with the money of the European Union and will be intended to put out forest fires in Slovenia and abroad. And if we get four new transport helicopters, then four of these renewed Bell helicopters will be given exclusively for helicopter emergency medical care. These helicopters will specialize in these tasks, including for us to properly arrange helicopter emergency medical care once in a while. And now, as far as the famous ones are concerned, you say battle vehicles, armored 8x8. We have been predicting 24 years for our allies that we will build a two-middle battalion battle group. At the time of the previous Government of January, it was a review of these commitments that NATO did not make us. We made these commitments ourselves. And our allies simply stopped using the diplomatic language and they told us if I told us about the home "guys, stop fooling around and stop pulling our noses." The report states that this is a critical lack of political will that defence is not important for Slovenia. This is what our allies think of us, because even under the budgets of the defence, because Spain and Belgium are behind us, at least those two countries are the things that they have placed themselves as important as some of the capacities they will provide have at least come true. That's not what we are. And that's what we've been promising since 2006. Now I'm wondering which country is credible, which for 24 years is making these commitments. And if you wanted to build two middle battalion teams, you'd need 135 vehicles at least 8x8, 110 vehicles 4x4 and 16 hoodies and so on. It is clear that we do not have the money at this time. That is why we have taken a real approach to the matter, and instead of these 135, 50 vehicles are planned. And these 50 vehicles will be at least a minimum basis so that we can build at least one of the promised two battalion groups. If there were a classic war in Slovenia, most likely these eight-wheelers or these armored vehicles would not have helped us, because some tank units would have easily defeated or destroyed them. And then you wonder why we even need these things. We only need them to ensure the safety of our team's transport. This country sends our soldiers to various missions, and as a minister and you as Members, we are responsible for providing them with appropriate equipment to be safe and not to come home in bags, but alive and healthy and that is our shared responsibility. And that's why we act very rationally on these things. Where are we going to take it? These false dilemmas that have been presented today, when — yes, I eat for it. If you put it all together in context, be at least that honest and say that the defence system has been extremely malnourished in the last ten years and that we are now at the point where it needs to be kept alive or shut down. And tell us a little bit more about how things were going there. Now, this coronavirus, you want it or you don't want it, may have brought another opportunity. And this new opportunity is that if European leaders agree this weekend, there will be a lot of money available for health, social and other areas in Recovery Found in other European mechanisms. And if Slovenia is effective in drawing these funds for health, social, coherent regional development and other European projects. If we are effective here, then we have the opportunity and the opportunity to take proper care of our defences. This is where I see the opportunity. And here, for a long time, we have the opportunity to take care of these things properly. But I'll conclude with this introductory part. The climate in the Slovenian Army is changing. You can see that, you can hear that. We've finally stopped talking about yawning once, there's nothing like that, there's nothing like that. Let us ask ourselves who will come into the Slovenian Army, who will join our army, but if we constantly say that wages suck, that there is no one else, no one. There are few such patriots that we will tell you hundreds of times a day how it sucks that they will still want to join the Slovenian Army. In order to succeed, we need the staff, yes, Member Bear, we need the staff, but we also need the technique, because there is one thing and the other with the hand in hand and they are both very important. Now in these summer months, the Ministry of Defence has organised a MORS camp and young people, where, above all, students who are not adults, we have organised military camps for students and students, with record participation everywhere. We had problems where to put all these young people, compared to previous camps for a hundred young people, so here are some first signs that things are changing. That more young people want this when you talk to them, you're kind of excited to have a positive attitude towards seeing things change, that they want to be members of the Slovenian Army and that the armies are still looking forward to brighter times. And finally, even when I've been showing these negative human resources trends, we're also here with these negative human resources trends, I'm not going to say reverse, but we've slowed them down. If we had fewer than 200, 300 soldiers a year in recent years, today or this year shows much better. I'm going to work hard to get these numbers to go plus by the end of the year, but once again, I say, the responsibility is ours. I can stand on my head, but if there's no support for this system in this house, then nothing helps. Thank you very much for supporting all the parliamentary groups, those who still have concerns, what reservations, I hope that we will eliminate them until the second hearing and that this law will receive as much support as possible and thus send some positive signal to this defence security system, namely that politics has not forgotten it and that it has support in this house.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We begin with a debate between Members and Members. First, he gets the word Miha Kordish, followed by Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm going to start with the next thought, the conclusion, and I can also say breaking down the regime's propaganda. The purchase of weapons is not an investment in defense. It is a waste of money on foreign military-industrial complexes under the NATO dictatorship and it does not serve the safety of residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. Not in any way. Two middle battalion groups are being built, which are not designed to operate within Slovenian borders. They are designed to work 10,000 kilometers away from these borders in the context of the NATO Union for the occupation of the countries of the global south. And that's why it's not an investment in defense. These are the acquisitions of war, which takes place under this government and with this Tonin law. For the occupation of the Middle East, for offensive action. Although it is not part of this tranche that we have today on the table, in the context of these two middle battalion groups, it is also wanted to buy 155 millimetres of hoods. Put her in Ljubljana in range of the river? No one will convince me that these hoodies are on paper and in the appetites of military bureaucracy due to defence needs because they are not. In short, we don't have a Department of Defense, we have a Ministry of War. And we don't have any defensive investment, but we do have military supplies. May I continue to respond to some of the most frequently exposed tumors that defend these war acquisitions. In fact, there have been one and the same lumps for six years since I have been in this National Assembly as a Member, and they do not differ at all in the present government or in previous governments. You know, how we have to buy weapons to survive the Slovenian army. In the same breath, it is mentioned that the Slovenian army loses its members. How many members are worth one armored or one anti-aircraft rocket? No purchase of weapons for the purposes of the union will then strengthen the staff of the Slovenian army, because these are two separate problems, although you, ladies and gentlemen, propagandically, manipulatively push them together. And certainly members of the Slovenian army are not leaving because the armory would not be there, but because it is not appropriate, and I will not go in this direction now. There is also often mention of war techniques and the acquisition of war techniques in the context of protection and rescue – “Look, we need a helicopter for emergency medical care or for protection and rescue”. Well, look how the Turbot plane turned out to be an epidemic. None of this war technique is bought for civilian purposes, not helicopters, not airplanes. Two transport helicopters that are being bought are being purchased for the needs of the special forces operating within the NATO liaison. Nevertheless, Minister Tonin's client, who holds the Ministry of Defence, wants to privatize helicopter emergency assistance - to know what the context is and how much the ladies and gentlemen of the government and coalitions are deceiving us when they mention helicopters and protection and rescue. Also, this 780 million euro law for weapons is not the basis for the mobilisation of the Bell 412 helicopter fleet, which is now as successful as it can be for protection and rescue actions. No, it is about buying two new helicopters for the purposes of the already mentioned special forces and not for civilian activity, which, once again, this coalition, or at least a party holding the Ministry of Defence, wants to be exempted from public service and sent to private. The story of this transport aircraft is very similar. This is not a transport aircraft designed for the needs of Slovenia in crisis situations, it is a transport aircraft for the supply of troops on missions, at Slovenian costs. While members and members of the Slovenian army on missions abroad do not pursue the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. Not on her own fault, but on the fault of the politics she sent there for the sake of power — for raw materials bases and other things. To put it vulgarly simply: Americans are collapsing the Middle East, and then we all have to help clean up. While this cleaning is also not entirely correct, maintaining the American hegemony and occupation of these areas will be more accurate. Of course, the transport aircraft is in the Slovenian army the supplies we pay in the occupations of these areas. Even if we look at the bumps of this Turbot plane, we quickly find out that civilian functions barely perform anything. The left share of this aircraft's function is military occupation. Perhaps the most frequently repeated argument is the one about NATO's commitments, when we made some commitments to Nate, we have to stick to that now. That is not entirely true, the former President of the National Assembly the current MEP said very nicely in Nat you always have the right to say no. Where does the North Atlantic Treaty say we have to buy armor? Nowhere. A credible state, Minister Tonin wonders how we'll act as a credible country if we don't finally buy weapons. How credible, though, are we to our own citizens and citizens if we buy weapons while our hospitals are falling apart? And if we give 780 million euros for weapons, then that 780 million will not be for anything else. We're not such a rich country again, so we can afford it. And when ladies and gentlemen, NATO's lawyers in the National Assembly and in the Government say, "Yes, because we will do everything, we will invest in health and we will buy weapons," they are, in fact, lying. Do we have before us an intervention law for 780 million emergency investments in health infrastructure? We don't. Do we have anything comparable for other basic subsystems in this country, the homes of the elderly, for example? We don't, we only have one law, it's the arms law. So what is the government's rhetoric on the credibility of the alliance if this government does not show absolutely no credibility to the people and to the needs of the people in this country who have been elected by all of us, ladies and gentlemen? This reference to 2% of GDP has a formal anchor in the so-called Welsh commitment, there has never been any public debate around this decision, a minister made a promise to NATO bureaucrats at a meeting, and that is it. People in this country did not have the right to vote at absolutely no point. In the same way, this commitment was further confirmed. The NATO Pact was held in Warsaw in July 2016, where the Prime Minister of the Government Miro Cerar mentioned this by memory, when he informed us from abroad through the camera and the public address that if Slovenia committed itself to throwing weapons before the decision went through the government at all, watch out, and did not go through the government, and Brussels 2017 and 2018, and London 2019. So much for these commitments to NATO and democratic debates. People didn't hear much about it, they didn't decide, they didn't cooperate, they didn't do anything. As much as the space opened up, we opened it in Levica, because we believe what we are saying and because we were fluent and we were able to bring down 8x8 armor purchases at the beginning of this mandate for 35 million euros, I am proud of this achievement today. And then our friend may say that Jens Stoltenberg, the secretary-general in the middle of the coronavirus epidemic, went cold in front of the cameras and sent a message to the world: "People are dying, your economies are dying, you will still give 2% of GDP for weapons." Truly amazingly, the defence union and friends are in this NATO, when in the middle of the economic crisis, in the midst of the wild epidemic, blink with your finger, if you “can sink, you can die, but you will give for your weapons”. One comparison between health care and the Ministry of Defence has also been drawn by Minister Tonin himself and has juggled numbers. I'm going to give you one number, if you give me how much money this is for health care, and how much no money is for the military, and in that sense, his point has gone. I'll give you some specific investment figures that are the most eloquent. In order to acquire a note of technique, this law, ladies and gentlemen, provides €780 million for two helicopters, a transport aircraft, 50 armoured 4X3 and 50 armoured 8X8. The budget of the Ministry of Health for 2021 provides only €41 million for investments. Let's see what a big step we're talking about. The army dies with a living body, says the exalted, sad report, Minister Tonin. What can we then say about 250,000 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens living in poverty? And these people don't die in a living body? However, I do not see any specific legislation to eliminate poverty in the next six years in this country. Same as the nursing home. Even when they say the army is dying in a living body, it's a terrible exaggeration, a moralization to justify buying Nate's weapon. Our army dies as the Slovenian Army, as a defence army because NATO is a subcontractor and after recognizing its own doctrine of the independent defence of national territory is not really capable. It is dying because the ruling class has set up a concept in a way that we operate within the NATO Pact to support the then arms-procurement pact, which we do not really need to defend the country, nor is it too useful. Another very eloquent information served by Minister Tonin, yes, and these were built there in the south in 70. At the last meeting of the committee, where we have also dealt with these war acquisitions on the initiative of the Left, we were able to hear one another moaning from New Slovenia's Members, as the last military station was built at our home in the early 1990s. “Well that is quiet.” The Ljubljana Infectious Clinic is a 120-year-old building. The hospital in Celje has rooms from 1887. But you have the problem and priority of a warlock that was built 30 years ago. Do you listen, ladies and gentlemen, to what you say to yourself in the middle of an epidemic? On the subject of cybersecurity, perhaps only the clarification, quote, I referred to Minister Tonin at the time when the opposition MP, where he made it very clear, "more millions for cybersecurity than millions for armorers". Well, today he's primarily defending a law that gives money primarily to armored men. To conclude, MORS and Government can be a very fine experience. I've had this experience as a soldier myself. We went to Vipavo. We had such a lovely time. The first night we guys sneaked out of one of our tents into that tent that the girls had, what kind of bottle they brought with them. In short, we had a nice, very nice time. I like to remember that. But what I would really like to see and what this country really needs right now is any comparable action to the human resources completion of the homes of older and health institutions. The advertisements “Become a member of the Slovenian Army” are spinning. Where are the nurse commercials going? Laws are being amended to improve the salaries of Slovenian soldiers. Standards and standards in older people's homes are 40 years old. Is he fixing them? No, no, no. So to compare where the energy goes, where the money goes, and where the commitments go. Each euro, every cent of this €780 million that goes for weapons, will be reduced in health care, in the care of the elderly, in youth housing, as the budget fell by €726 million in the first five months of this year, when costs went up by €762 million, and we record a billion €270 million minus. There's no money, and there won't be any money if they go for guns instead of going for development, for prosperity, for health, for care.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Horvath has the word, and after him will receive the word of Ambassador Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Maybe my debate will be substantially different from that of the predecessor, because I'm not a populism. Maybe it's because I dropped off my territorial defence uniform today when I returned from the war for Slovenia. I also apologize for the introductions to members of the Slovenian Army, who have to listen here by the predecessor to such contempt, insult. The Slovenian army has been operating on the domestic power plant for several years. This probably cannot be done indefinitely, and although we are now with our fellow Member, Mr Marjan Šarc, I do not see him in the Chamber, a political competitor, but the club I strongly agreed with his statement of 9 October 2018, on the occasion of Mr Stoltenberg's visit to Slovenia, when Mr Šarec to the Chamber of the Slovenian Public informed Slovenia, Slovenia must fulfil its commitments not for the sake of others. Under this statement, I sign, says he, despite being a political competitor, an opponent, but I am always looking for some common points. It's interesting that at the time, it wasn't the Left who was an ally, it was okay. Yes, we respect commitments in New Slovenia. At a symbolic level, listening to the previous debate, at least 635 thousand people, citizens and citizens would probably wave their hand, an approximate figure which, at the referendum already mentioned today, decided to join Slovenia in the NATO Union. In fact, the North Atlantic Treaty is crucial; the referendum actually laid the groundwork, so Slovenian Demos gave the basis to the then authorities; we were there for the State of Slovenia to sign the North Atlantic Treaty, that good contract only with the fourteen articles of April 4, 1949. I do not have time to list all the articles, but Article 3 is actually the article from which Mr Marjan Šarec may have drawn his statement on October 2018. It reads as follows: “In order to achieve the objectives of this Treaty more effectively, the Parties will, with continuous and effective self-help and mutual assistance, each for themselves, I underline, each for themselves and together, maintain and develop their individual and collective capacity to resist an armed attack.” Ladies and gentlemen! As we defend the rule of law, we swear on the Roman quote “pacta sunt servanda”, the treaties must be respected. And I'm not going to list any other commitments, letters and bonds, etc., that you can all read. As for my cousin, the former Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, whom I highly appreciate, Mr Alen Gider, said in January 2018, that before the arrival of Mr Stoltenberg in Slovenia, Slovenian Members have poured pure wine and said a well-known saying if we do not take a timely systemic action in 2020, this year or 2021, the next year is the right year, the army will no longer have. And this is said by an outstanding expert on military matters, for defence matters, and I conclude for the time being that this 780 million in six years, of course, does not just mean investing in hardware, but also in software. It is also true that R & D and more military resources will also mean more civil protection funds, for the purposes of emergency helicopter medical care and so on. As far as I'm concerned, I'm proud of the Secretary of Defense, mag. Tonino, that he finally came with a law that is a commitment, yes, even for the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish replica. I hope it's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u32	Thank you. Of course, the replica will be the chairman, because I was misunderstood. Ambassador Horvat from Nova Slovenije says I have offended members and members of the Slovenian Army. That's not true. I've insulted politicians who rather buy armor than build hospitals. Ambassador Horvath, on Sunday not only to Mass, go to confession, because you lied again.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u33	Micah Kordish, second warning. Infringement and abuse and insult.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u34	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u35	Procedurally Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u36	Thank you. Presidents, you can give me as many reminders as you want, but I would remind you of double standards and dishonesty. My replica was professionally clean. I was directly challenged, directly named, misunderstood, and I clarified this misunderstanding correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u37	Comrade Kordish, I've listened to your debate that you've been named has nothing to do with the replica. The fact that your colleague misunderstood you is your assumption, which I don't think is true. And from this point of view it is also your business proposal or procedural proposal, I would say unjustifiable. Mr. Secretary, you want a word. Okay, here you go. Then let's move on. First he has the word of a colleague, Nick Prebil, and then he is followed by Member Marjan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister! When a member of the National Assembly, a respected colleague of Horvath, says he will discuss otherwise because he is not a populist, I don't know if a person would cry or laugh, because if someone is a populism, respected Mr Horvat, it is you in this National Assembly. At times, the minister seemed almost offended when someone disagreed with him, but let's clear one thing straight at the beginning so that no one would tell me and we'll go back to a number of replicas and procedural proposals. Alone and also the client of the List of Marjan Šarc supports the development of the Slovenian defence system, the strengthening of the Slovenian Army both at home and abroad, and the misleading opinion was also expressed when it was said that no one had given any more money to the military in all these years. This is not true; in the List of Marjan Šarc we have followed this in the Government and we have earmarked significantly more funding in relation to past years and that is the fact that this is a fact. But they are before every decision is made where we are going in the country, but we have to choose priorities and priorities. Not only does one person put them in a situation where we are, but today we are in a different situation where we were about six months ago. And in view of this situation that we have, caused by the pandemic of the new coronavirus, we are faced with unpredictable times, times after all probability of many denials and setting new priorities, and somehow I feel that the classification and hurry with such a proposal is a relatively high budget for the military at that time, and, in all likelihood, a very bad step at that time for Slovenia. I will always agree that those commitments you make and what you promise must be fulfilled. Finally, we decided to join NATU in a referendum, and with a large majority, we supported it, too. However, despite all of this, it does not affect the fact that we still have to set priorities in the country, and these priorities, which are shown in, as usual, in the balance of the budget, what and how, of this government after four months. And, Your Honor, we're talking about 780 million euros, not two slices of bread. About 780 million euros to be invested in the military over the next six years. Firstly, we're talking about investments at a time when, you won't believe, perhaps Mr. Janez Janša will no longer be in the government. We are talking about investments during the coming financial crisis, which is increasingly showing up, has a major impact on the population and many other resources. At a time when the respected government cannot really trust any purchases, we saw where the acquisitions of masks and protective equipment went. A government burdened by many corrupt acts devours words, affairs, lies, and deception. The government, whose coalition before some pre-operability of operations, is constrained the possibility of redistributed spending rights in the budget without any restrictions and such a government, which is then ordered by law to report on these funds to this National Assembly and of course does not do so. And such a government can't trust a 780 million-euro purchase, a respected minister. Although I can agree that in Slovenia we need a transport aircraft and some helicopters and new personal equipment for soldiers. But you can do it in the next year or two and you don't need 780 million euros because it's not that expensive unless there's something else behind it. And we speak at the level of funds, respected, once again, which represents almost one tenth of the state budget. The means that will burden us in the coming years at a time when the inflow to the budget has been reduced. We know that the fall in revenue has already been recorded at 15,8 %. And, above all, what is most important, respected that we do not know today, and I am sure that they do not know this in the Government, because he is spending money as crazy, we do not know what the state of the Slovenian budget is today. So you're charging 780 million euros to the next government assuming you don't actually know anything. So I'm asking you to tell me where you're going to get this money or where you're going to take it, and above all, tell me, because, after all, as Minister in this government, you need to know what the mania of the budget is today. That's irresponsible, because I don't know, I notice you're living in another reality that doesn't match the one we're living in. Because this time, in my opinion, the matter is foreshadowed. But you know, it doesn't help anyone's protective, pardon, equipment, military, which will then stay in the warehouses, because there's no personnel, and it'll be time teeth, and then it'll be useless. And that, in one part, could be said to be a mismanagement of public funds. I don't know, you're going to rush this thing almost as if you have an eight-year term and you're going to make a good deal of it. And yes, some of the goals, because right now, Minister, to get this thing off the table, we just know where you are right now, and then set your targets until you're here, but if you keep going in this place, you'll be setting new goals. And even some of the goals, but don't get me wrong, are well set, I'm not saying anything. Not everything is bad and we have never read it to you, we have given you many suggestions, even in other matters, and you have overlooked them. But you go from one extreme to another. Once it is said that there is no money, that the budget is record, that nothing is invested anywhere, then the investment is invested again, then the state owes itself for an additional 5 billion, and you boast about how much you give to people, and you forget that these people will pay back years and years and years in advance and so on and so on. And in order to reach at least the approximate numbers that you are showing in this document, you need to increase the inflow to the budget, this is purely simple, and this is done by, among other things, increasing domestic consumption and reminding you that you have once again rejected many of the opposition's proposals, including the last of the LMŠ, where we proposed it, where the introduction of universal income would increase domestic consumption. And I really, really, just when I look at these things as a young man in politics after all, I see a lot of things that still surprise me every day, but that I would trust this moment in the government to spend 780 million euros, which I don't think is right. And you're saying there's no personnel that young people don't decide on this job, and now there's probably something else behind it that's just obsolete military equipment, and it's probably going to have to be directed somewhere else, no, maybe if, in addition to everything else, the government were working on how to hire young people as soon as possible, how young people would get to their homes, it would probably be a lot more likely to think about what kind of profession they would choose and how the country would help. So I'm holding back from this proposal, and far from wanting something bad, both the military and the police, but I would like to remind you, Your Honor, because you're obviously very quickly forgetting some that the military sector and the police sector have collapsed exactly the previous Janša government with Zujf and no one else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u39	Thank you very much. He asked the Minister of Mag for a word. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u40	I'd like to answer some inaccuracies. I understand that the opposition is unhappy if this government succeeds, but nevertheless it is necessary to operate on real data. Mr Nik says that this law will represent one tenth of the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u41	Almost. [[turn off microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u42	It's almost gone. This law represents one percent of the state budget. One-tenth of a percentage, but a Member, is an essential difference. That is, the state budget is large around, over the thumb, not that we will be easier to calculate, 10 billion, and this law foresees that 100 million euros per year will be allocated, but now calculate how many 100 million out of 10 billion. So, here, you know, you say, this law represents a tenth of the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u43	Please, if you'll take a seat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u44	This law represents a tenth of the state budget? No, it's one percent, one percent. And I find it difficult to understand that the things written by your party president, which your government is supposed to do according to Commissioner Medveda, now that my team at the Ministry continues this work, now is reckless, unrealistic and all wrong. If I were you, I'd be glad someone would continue your work. And yes, I am thinking in the medium term, and even when I'm gone in this place, I want the Slovenian Army to survive, I want things to be so set up in the next two years that the military will be able to survive in the long term, but I will be in this place or not. Because it's not about me, it's about the Slovenian Army. Where we're going to take this, I've already said this before, and obviously you haven't listened, and there's no problem that there's now going to be, for others, there's not going to be, you've forgotten that we're spending, for example, 30 million euros right now in the corona package for social security institutions, you've forgotten that, but not that we've already distributed 1 billion money among people and more. And we will also provide money for health care, we will also provide money for social services, no one predicts the ZUJF, no one has announced it, nor has the Prime Minister, who has answered the parliamentary questions, denied it, but you keep saying that. We will provide money in the budget and this in a way that this COVID situation has offered some new opportunities – recovery funds, then you have a new multi-annual financial European perspective, other European mechanisms. And this government is doing its best to draw from these mechanisms in order to provide money for health, social and other things, for infrastructure, for municipalities, so that this law can then be realized. We'll take it here, and here's the money. You say, yes, why don't you get a plane and a helicopter in the next few years when you're in this place – I agree with that, but not everything else. Look, because things in this department aren't like supermarket stores where you go and choose, but because they're long-term jobs because you have to make a deal today, secure money, and then it goes on for years to get this thing out. I am almost certain that, during my term of office, I will not be waiting for any transport or eight-wheelers because the delivery hands are so long. And you can do that without worry, if you're the minister then, you can take over so gladly, and I'll take over this part of the anger that you're now putting on this part of the law and these things. And also about Ambassador Kordish, who says he didn't offend the soldier. Now I've been to all the brigades, I've been talking to a lot of soldiers, and they've asked me to tell them that Ambassador Kordish has repeatedly insulted them. And they are particularly hurt when he says that the Criminal Expeditions of NATO are. And that's what he does all the time on the defense committee. And they told me to make it clear that they felt deeply offended.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u45	Thank you very much. It's a replica of Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I'm going to replicate it on a short note to the Minister because I guess we didn't get along. I know very well what is a hundred million and what is one billion and I am talking about the total amount of 780 million that is approaching that one billion that is worth one tenth of the state budget. But it's true that this is the amount [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u47	May I have your attention, please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u48	If this amount is foreseen within 6 years. Don't get upset with your buddy there because there's nothing terrible about it. Second of all, Minister, you say you'll provide money from a variety of sources. I can't agree with that somehow because you don't know how much money you have in the budget and how much money you'll have next year, two years or six years from now. And that's why this thing is tiny on a small scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Word, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u50	Look, Member Prebil, there's nothing on the small foundations. You have led the government so long that you know that funds are provided in the budget and that resources can be provided in different ways in the budget. One is with taxes; the other is with various contributions from other European funds; the third is with debt. So, look, this government is going to provide money. It is clear, however, that your parliamentary group is attacking me personally from the Member of Korča, you and anyone else goes personally to me because there are other political ambitions here, but I will say again, I ask you nicely, let me attack at another level. Don't use it for assaults, that's army for hostage. Since the defense system has suffered too much over the past 10 years, it has given most of all its resources. I went to check out the stats again earlier. Over the last 10 years, the budget approved by the defence sector has decreased most significantly. And he hasn't returned to some nominal amounts since the crisis. I understand that I am disturbing you to get on your nerves, that you have a special agenda, but get on with me and not for hostages to use the Slovenian Army.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Member Marijan Pojbič has the floor. He will be followed by Ambassador Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I must say that those who have had the Government in the past have had every opportunity to solve the problems, and not one has been solved, and now they are attacking those who have decided to solve the problems specifically with the laws and as necessary. Therefore, I cannot believe that this way they can discuss with such ease when they know when we are talking about the defence system in what state it is. And when I listened to my colleague, I must continue to confirm what the minister said he said was one-tenth of a budget. Mr. Nick or my friend Nick, if I can call it that, because it's true, here you've just made a mistake and it's right to admit a mistake, you've told the wrong information that's not true, it's the Minister who explained it to you, and it's not true, and if you go look at the tape you'll see what you said and it's not true, it's a deception, it's a lie. Then, dear colleagues from LMŠ, I have heard today in the position of the Member and also in the debate of Members and Members, because it has been asked I do not know how many questions why it is, why it is, thirdly, tenthly, I do not know. That's one thing. Second of all, you were talking about priorities. And the third time you talked about unrealistic planning, and so on. So, you're saying everything else you said when you were on the government. Everything this government is preparing, everything this coalition accepts, everything this government is saving is wrong, it's not okay, it's not okay, it's not second, it's not third, it's okay. That's amazing. But you're a year and a half, or how much you've had a government, and you've done nothing, and now you're having trouble with this government that's doing the good that people love. The narrow structures of the extreme criminal society, of course, logically, this government doesn't care and tolerate because this government works for people, this is the fundamental question and this is the fundamental difference between you when you led the government and this government now led by John Janša. That's a fundamental difference. We work for people, and you have worked for narrow groups of privileged people, and this is our huge difference, and this Slovenian people must know, this must hear. And my colleague Tonin, Mr Tonin, very clearly defined in his debate everything we need to know about the Slovenian public about this law, said everything. And there is simply nothing to add here when we talk about the arguments why we need to invest in the Slovenian Army. And dear colleagues, this is not a matter of coalition when I speak of the Slovenian Army, it is a matter of all of us or we want the Slovenian Army or we are doing what leftist governments have been doing until now, that you have destroyed the Slovenian Army, with only one purpose, that there will be no one else in this Slovenian society, no subsystem to protect independence and peace in Slovenia. And we will not allow you to do this, nor I, nor this Government, nor the Slovenian people, nor ever. When you need the Slovenian army to ensure peace, to ensure security, to help with natural disasters and so on, then we are all Members and Members full of mouths as to how good the Slovenian army is, how we need it and so on, when we have to start solving its problems, then you have 1000 and one question and 1,000 and one excuse just to not give a cent. [[Incomprehensible]] Now, you tell us what is wrong with you, what is wrong with you, and I simply cannot believe it, six months ago, here's in a month, two, three, and completely turn the board and work against the interests of the Slovenian people, who clearly told them that they want the Slovenian army to stand behind it, and if you make a referendum today you will see how many Slovenes and Slovenians who love this country will vote for us to have the Slovenian Army. You'll see. And we should ask those who object to solving the problems of the Slovenian Army. After that, we should ask each other a few questions. What are you even listening to what the Slovenian people are saying? What does the nation tell you? But you live, I don't know, I don't know, look, I just don't understand you. And we are all Members and Members, even in your place are the people from where you come from, the ones you discussed today, and you are looking for all possible options for the Slovenian Army not to help. If we want to have a subsystem, we need to fund it, we all know that. This is our mission and our duty. If our citizens and citizens make it clear what they want in this society and in this country and what their priorities are, if the people have power, then it is our job to do it and do it as necessary. And this government is doing exactly that and that's all it's doing with this law. That's right and that's all. And today, when I listened to the extreme leftist Kordish, who is fooling around with the trots that are not to be listened to, they are really not digestive anymore, I had to go out of this Parliament and stand outside because you can't listen to him, because the nebulism that this man is talking is such extreme lies and deceptions, but he really exceeds every boundary of good taste. This simply cannot be a member of the Slovenian Parliament. Unfortunately, he can't be with that kind of attitude. That's way out of bounds. And abused everything that was possible. And I would like to say the following, since LMSH seems very, I will say, unfairly, very misleading and corrupt when you talk about not trusting this government because it is corrupt and so on. From where, show me the ones you discussed today, one document from which it appears that the legal authority of any of this government has done anything wrong. Tell me. I want a document here today in Parliament that you have said that this government is not to be trusted, and even so, Mr Prebil said that the Government will spend 780 million euros. Expensive, you said. Does that mean when you're funding a substandard Slovenian army you're spending money? And that's your thinking philosophy? Is that what you wanted to tell the Slovenian public? Then, dear colleagues, I am very sorry to have to talk to you at this level. I didn't see that coming, so I listened very carefully, especially to my colleague Beat the shit out of him. When I tell you in this House, I am not telling you now, Mr. Prebil, but I am saying if someone is saying that someone is corrupt and that, I don't know, insists that he is not to be trusted and that this government is corrupt, that it is not to be trusted by a cent and so on, wait, then you have to bring some evidence to the table. And you can't convict someone without a document. Or maybe you're doing it on purpose. Do you know whose ideology this is? Remember a little history, and you'll understand. I'm sorry. Remember the history of whose ideology it was. Discreditation, what followed then and so on. That's right. And I take it slowly from that point on, things are going in that direction, which is unacceptable. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Quiet! When I say you'll be quiet and learn to behave [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u53	Please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u54	I was completely silent, and I didn't say when you were discussing [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u55	I'm asking for peace in the hall. And I'm asking my colleague to lead the session. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u56	Honourable Vice-President [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u57	Please go to the level of the previous discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u58	Thank you very much. So, all these things that I've been listening to today, instead of attacking the government and all those who are doing well, instead of stepping together, helping to save. And when we are talking about the malnutrition of the Slovenian Army, you all know that the fact that I cannot avoid it, which has suffered the greatest damage in the last 10 years, is what Mr Minister has made very clear and supported with data, evidence, arguments. And if we want to have the Slovenian Army, and we want it in the Slovenian Democratic Party and this government for sure, she has decided to prepare a law to resolve the situation gradually within the framework of her ability. And you can't deny it. And you want nothing to happen that we can't, we can't do anything, we can't do anything for the good of people, so that your philosophy of thinking can come to life. He won't. As you wish, to force this Government, you will not succeed, so you will not be able to stop good projects like this, when it comes to our people, when it comes to the Slovenian Army, when it comes to defending the Slovenian Army, when it comes to ensuring peace, security in this society, this country, and when Slovenian soldiers and soldiers are needed for basic disasters and so on, that they will be available to us and that they will have the appropriate equipment for it. This is the whole philosophy and the thing that we want to follow, and we're doing it, we're doing it. And I just don't get it. You have to be sick. I don't understand. I don't see a logical argument. I don't see any logical argument that you're opposed to it, even though I apologize for the expression I used earlier, but maybe it's a grave term. I'm sorry. And I will only conclude by saying that I will support this law, and we will also support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party because it is in the right place. It is a problem that is acute, which is very topical and that needs to be solved here today immediately. We will therefore be happy to support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Of course, we take the responsibility, without any problem, for the funds devoted to this law to be spent legally and in the spirit of a good master. And it is also stated in this law that at the annual level the government must report once to the National Assembly on how the funds have been spent and why they have been spent and so on. So all the instruments are included in order to be able to control themselves honestly and as I said, the use of these funds, which, once adopted by this law, will be ensured for the functioning of the Slovenian Army. The Slovenian army needs this, today, right now, here, and we need to help because we want it because it is our defender, because it is our Slovenian army that we are looking forward to loving this Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u59	Thank you very much. It's a replica of Comrade Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u60	Yes, thank you very much. I have to replicate my colleague Pojbich. I don't know why you're so upset, buddy. Nobody wants to hurt you. You have now said at the end that all the protective instruments have been included in the law, and I am just telling you that some of the other laws you have adopted in this coalition have included instruments to inform this National Assembly about the financial situation once a month, and this is not done. This is the first thing, like the second thing, I don't see any problem with you offending fellow Members, regardless of whether the debate differs perhaps from what you think. Please do not compare me with some ideology of some former regimes, but these ideologies are only with one person, and Mr. Janez Janša there may be with someone else. But really, at my 27 years of age, born in Slovenia alone, you really can't compare me to any other regimes, so please. But I would only remind you of what you did in your party when you were on the opposition side and when there was a different government on the government, you opposed everything by principle, and we do not contradict everything by principle. But we've seen your attitude towards the opposition in all four anti-Korona packages of 300 plus amendments, and I don't know if I can count them in one hand but those who have accepted really, really, really the vast majority of them have gone into the good of the nation. So let a little look at yourself before you judge others, those who may not share exactly the same opinion as you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u61	Thank you. The word is from my colleague Željko Ciegler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u62	Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Look. The fact is that in Slovenia there are several social sub-systems, one of them is the Slovenian Army, all respect, which is properly financed as well as other social sub-systems. I must say that as far as our obligations to NATO are concerned and sending Slovenian soldiers to missions and operations abroad, Slovenia fulfils all of this. The second time I'd say this, look, contracts have to be respected, as my colleague, Joseph Horvat, said. It is true, but about the money that we will give 2% of GDP for the military and how we will equip it militarily with additional elements for the military, I call this a weapon, a means of killing. These were commitments made by representatives of governments or government presidents or by the President of the State at NATO meetings that citizens and citizens know nothing about to make such high sums. And the referendum decision to enter NATO cannot be translated in such a way that when it is confirmed that we are entering NATO, we accept all the dictatorships that will be from this centre, in particular their leading countries, these are the United States of America moving to individual countries, in this case also from Slovenia, how much money we will give for arms and for the military. If Minister Tonin said it before, see if we still want the Slovenian Army. If we want it, let's invest it. Yes, we're talking about 780 million, Minister. If we want Slovenian health care, which is practically stopped, long-term hospitals, missing hospitals, no equipment, health personnel, especially nurses, so poorly paid and also doctors, to go abroad, we buy hospital equipment with donations, rare medicines for rare diseases, even for children, we collect donations, not from these 780 million, which are supposed to go to the military for example. Not to mention how much we invest in safe age, education, research and development, the Slovenian economy, which will sustain us, that we will not condemn young people to looking for a job on Sundays as excuses through student work in stores that will be open on Sundays. Here we have to ask ourselves where we're going to give the money. In man or army, in that part of the army that spends most of its weapons and money on missions and operations abroad. Let me finish, I listened to you too, Mr. Secretary. And one military funding of 2% of GDP from €70 million for new weapons would, in the event of confirmation in our National Assembly, virtually be taken against the opinion of citizens. [[Incomprehensible]] In Slovenia, 70% of people opposed the purchase of weapons two years ago in a public opinion survey. I mean, people thought, hello, how much money do we have, where do we put it, what are our critical points and our main problems? Armoring. They have opposed this billion 200 million investments in weapons, and the government, in its opinion, or the Ministry of Defence, cannot take into account the opinion of citizens, Mr Minister-respected, this must be taken into account. In their interest, which is also expressed in the referendums, the Government must manage this country, not the contrary, and we point out this in Levica. It's unacceptable, it's undemocratic. I told you why in the first place. And financial policy is a practical policy, which is now also being set by these arms purchases, in fact the policy is a priority set by the existing Government. It is not difficult to find 780 million money for the military, but Minister Gantar is also looking for various investments in infectious clinics in Ljubljana, Maribor and elsewhere, slow millions, collecting, collecting. In the homes for the elderly, what has proved to be our worst points, and this is our audit report, when we examined it last year, the Court of Auditors showed us, home for the elderly we are very much missing the pride of our attitude towards this part of our population. We don't have public funds for investments at home for the elderly, we're going to solve the concession issue. We do not have the money to provide affordable help to the elderly at home. We don't have any money or super money. I respect the King. I plan to build two nursing hospitals. These things need to be provided for the elderly throughout the long-term care of the region, across all regions in Slovenia, also in order to be able to isolate those who are now suspected of having COVID-19 in such areas. Or maybe there's no money for schools. Look, we fought here for a few million money, but the best thing was done, just in Novi Slovenija there was a small amount of money, I said, to co-finance municipal investments for the needed elementary and kindergarten space. And if the existing government wants to give another child in the family or a third free kindergarten. Wait a minute, this kindergarten needs to be built. Local communities don't have that kind of money. Not to say what I've already pointed out is that this crisis, when children were being educated remotely, showed, I mean, I'm going to tell this ridiculous situation. Everything was done through computer networks and computers and schools had 0.3, 0.45 computer jobs with 400, 500 students. They don't have special teachers, they don't have logos, they don't have psychologists. Look, these are the things that need to be financed. People need to be given access to housing, and these are rental apartments. Where's the money? 780 million is an army, Mr. Secretary. About life, specifically, I'm talking about people with us. Not to mention the very serious problem of green Slovenia. I'm talking about Anhove. I'm talking about Velenje. This is one ecological rehabilitation and protection of these cities and some of the others that I have mentioned. That's what you have to give money for. That's security. Social security, economic security, health, housing, safe age. And look, for all these existential security in the country, we obviously don't know how to find money. Actually, the money doesn't want to be given, I'll say it. And priority is given to military, security and repressive policies. Unfortunately, at the last minute, the latter is increasingly present in the internal life of the country. And look at something else - what Nick Prebil said earlier. Once a person has read this law, it is determined that it will allow the Ministry of Defence to conclude contracts that will enable them to assume responsibilities for the entire period of the law, not only for the period of the budgets adopted. In short, if you can get it now, you're saying the delivery deadline is longer. You now conclude with suppliers, probably from America in particular, or I don't know where the suppliers of the arms companies will be, for the weapons we now get, and then by 2026 we pay 780 million euros. What are the interests of citizens who, according to the results of public opinion polls, oppose investment in weapons, then press for arms purchases and stand behind this law? They're trying to force him on us in any way. You want him for us, excuse us, Mr. Minister, for defending him and not listening to criticism and arguments. And this is first of all the interest of one military industry, especially the United States. I don't know if then Donald Trump will come and give our president his hand and say "thank you, you helped our workers in the military industry, you bought our weapons"? Is this an interest in armed support for the imperial plundering of the countries of the world's periphery? Sorry, that's it. Is this interest, on the expectation of commissions from these transactions, at the expense of public funds, on the basis of the pattern of arms trafficking by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior at the time of independence, or at the time of the purchase of Patriye or at the time of purchase of the medical equipment now necessary? While cynicism is unprecedented, while Slovenia swears in one foreign policy to a peace policy, a culture of peace and non-violence, it shows its true face and what it is really going through through the abnormally high use of public funds for the purchase of weapons – resources that we do not have, the social threats are huge, unemployed young people with education, there is no money to create their jobs. And the potential confirmation of high investment in weapons 780 will only make Slovenia's security worse and is totally contrary to our official foreign policy. However, there will be an increase in the disaster and woes of people in an neglected world where the Slovenian army participates in missions and operations. We can list the countries they are. And we will help increase the influence of the imperial forces and their looting of the occupied countries. This is a fact, it is not an insult to the Slovenian army. In this function, this army is performing, and this is where Miha Kordish is not lying. He said things objectively, but if you don't read the local and foreign media a little bit. And with this weapon, we will contribute to an increase in the number of refugees we claim to be such a threat to our security. With uncritical participation in NATO operations and the imperialist policies of the United States, we are practically causing these refugees and the friction that I have stated. With 780 million, which will go especially to the middle of these battalion units, as they are called, they will be units that will mostly operate in operations and directions abroad. For this reason, alone and even the Left cannot accept such things. And believe me, when I announced earlier, when I mentioned the public opinion on the purchases of weapons in the past, that is two years ago, citizens and citizens, respected Minister Tonin, disagree with these purchases. Either way you improve these facts, it is not an insult to the Slovenian Army or to anyone else who sits in here, it is a matter of talking to each other and listening to facts and arguments, but who is not capable of referring to the ethical code of Members, not knowing what has been affected him, to listen and to think about the positions they are defending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u64	See, honourable Member, this Government has provided additional money to the Slovenian municipalities, has already assured them that they will be able to invest and eliminate regional differences. This government has provided money to pensioners, all or a large majority of them have received supplements, students, employees, families. This government has also provided €30 million in money to strengthen DSOs, social security institutions. This government is going to build new homes for the elderly, and after all, you're saying it's money for this army, but there's no money for everything else. That's not true. In three months, this government distributed a billion euros to citizens, and over 1.3 million Slovenian citizens received a different amount of money from that country. So not to talk about being for one, not being for the other, and that's a false dilemma. This government will provide money for health care, social and security. Your assessment that most of the money goes to operations and missions are inaccurate. I've got a concrete figure of 4.5% of the defence budget on missions, that's 25 million euros. A large majority of this money will be used to operate at home, for projects at home, remember who performs helicopter emergency medical care. Who? The Slovenian army. Who saves in the mountains? The Slovenian army. Who solves natural disasters? The Slovenian army. Who's putting out forest fires? And so on. So you don't create fake dilemmas where they don't exist.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u65	Thank you. There is a colleague, Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u66	Thank you very much, President. Well, we are on the first question of populism, which has already been exposed today. This government has not distributed billions of euros, and this Parliament has approved a law with which you could then distribute this billion euro. At the same time, you've taken 5.3 billion more credits at this billion, you've got confidence, and this poof is going to pay for generations, and that's what our colleagues want to expose. And it is also a question of whether or not someone is sitting in this Parliament, but there is no minister but there is no MP, there is no fair colleague Horvat, at least look at the side, and the minister was not there when you asked Mr Šarc, and you were not there so far, but there is nothing wrong with it, you listened in the office. Populism is also a way of just once listening to a wiretap to track, then it becomes a lapsus and then it becomes a glimpse into records, and it's not yet explained, but the previous charges were a severe whole system, so don't talk to me about populism, and don't knock on the chest because of the uniform. My uniform is still in the closet and I wear it twice a year, not because of any parade, but because I go to the training and skill test, not in the Slovenian Army, but in the Civil Protection, but there's both in the defence system and every time I see a huge number of people who don't knock on their chests because they've been there with me for 25 years. And they'll probably last another 10 years because they can. This constant affront to the right of patriotism, and the question of whether we are for the military or not at the end of the debate on this law, I will defend this army until the end of my energy. I don't trust you, Vlada. I'll tell you why. I don't trust New Slovenia. Two years ago, what happened. The negotiations took two and a half months, in the end you yourself said no, perfectly legitimate, and then you went on for a year and a half this year and a half now in your midterm, acting like an offended bride. You may also decide once, but you will cooperate with someone else or you will not cooperate. As far as the government's trust is concerned, this government here has lied to me and all the 90 Members of Parliament in the face. You did not deny this, nor did you, as a member of the Government, not Mr Gantar, who lied, not Mr Restoration and not the President of the Government. [[adverts from benches]] Let's say there's a number of fans I won't repeat. [[adverts from benches]] Don't twist my words, Comrade Horvath. You were talking about the number of fans. However, if we go so precisely – we do not have any fans, of which 20, 30 are suitable for covid patients, said the minister. Finally, it proved to be strong enough to first contact the epidemic. But let us trust you because it says in there that once a year you will report these acquisitions to the National Assembly. Once a year. Once again, you cannot report the redistribution within the conversion monthly and also those reports that we receive are non-creditable, marked with some internal levels, I don't know, distrust in Parliament or something. That's how we put it down, and we're gonna go check it out, but you can't do that either. But you will report them to us as you explained to us yesterday what media legislation or the RTV Act will be like. But you will report to us as you have reported on the procurement report of the protective equipment, and every time in Parliament we will treat it as such, you have done the right thing. That's not how it works. I see this bill primarily as your personal, minister, your personal pear action and a list of wishes to show to the world that you have not only distributed one billion public money within three months, not government money, but also done something for the defence system based on documents that have already been prepared. But we wouldn't want to do that if we had the whole picture when you put together the rebalancing, and we'll say yes. You will give, say, this government will prepare a billion euro of additional money for research, for education, a billion for health care, and then 780 million in six years, so that no one will ever take me by word of mouth again, even for the defence system. I don't see him here, maybe except for Left, who'll say no, we're against it. We don't have the whole picture, we don't have anything to decide on. I don't know what you expect from us. You wrote down a list of wishes, perhaps Santa Claus with your star to help him and probably will be brought to Christmas by Minister Restoration with his Mercedes. That's the way I stand for it. I mean, what you're doing right now is not fair on your part. We'll take the money from somewhere. [[adverts from benches]] Apparently this list will be heard because you have enough votes, but not with mine. Not mine. It's a wish list. You insist on buying these, I don't know, fucking eight-wheelers all the time. They are not the eight-wheelers of the Slovenian Army. More than half of this money is for eight-wheelers. But you can think a little beyond that. Helicopters for emergency medical care and mountain rescue services, he's not in here to fight. Transporter plane, there's no one here who's against it. The development of sanitation and logistics will certainly receive 100% support. But maybe we should think a little bit more. Why not make a military hospital, why not make military kindergartens to make it easier for soldiers who have children to go to work more easily? Because what did we promise Nate that we would invest in the eight-wheel drive or that we would invest in the defense system? The defense system isn't just a weapon. The defense system is, as you yourself said, very complex. Why don't we do it because, I'm sure we have a lot of knowledge in our army, and I respect them deeply, why don't we do it now that we've lost our pilot school, when Adria's gone, why don't we train our pilots? There's no one in here who's against him. But no. The stubborn insists on some purchases that everyone tells you to wait a while, give at least parallel to these shares, not just over the shoulder of the bag, because we are preparing some modern helium drives, I don't know, on fuel cells, we are preparing, I don't know, investments. To the hydrogen, excuse me. Put these stories in parallel, not with the paper that says 780 million, but in taxis, some wishes are listed. We need a little more information, and then you'll get our trust. And as I said before, the Slovenian Army and the defence system will be my advocate as long as I breathe, and I will do everything in my power to be able to do what they're called for. However, I will not have this government's exchange rate to have in the next six with EUR 780 million, no way. Because I don't believe you. And here I'm going to make a dot.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Rudy Bear's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u68	Thank you very much, President. Minister, you're not getting on my nerves. I have to tell you this in person. You're not getting on my nerves when you were wondering who you're getting on your nerves. But it is true that, in fact, you react rather nervously when the debate is not what you would expect, so when we do not clap and cry out how good things are, then you are in a bad mood. And you react nervously, that is, one wisdom is Slovenian, don't go into the kitchen if you don't like heat. Normally, if you come to Parliament with a law that, of course, we will not only applaud him, but we will probably try to find something in this law that can be fixed. And you know, this distortion, and this is the reversal that the criticism is yours, that we are against the Slovenian Army, that we want the abolition of the Slovenian Army, which is really inappropriate. Now if you have listened to a good enough position that I have presented on behalf of the List of Marjan Šarc, you have been able to understand from it many things, but certainly not that we are for the abolition of the Slovenian Army. And when you say that you could be happy to continue some of the things that the Sharčev government has outlined, I also made that clear in this position and expressed my satisfaction, but it is true that you are here, but little in conflict with the members of the coalition who support you. But here we could hear that by 13 March nothing happened, that it was some terra nullius or whatever it is called, and, of course, with March 13th, the sun had begun to shine differently, less bitter because there was no climate change, and the grass was greener. At the same time, Members of the coalition are attacking us because we are asking. Of course we ask, I mean, but normally we ask. Well, I would expect the government ministers to ask the coalition some questions. But where would we have come if we had all applauded so uncritically everything this government is doing, just as the MPs in the coalition do? That at the same time with them, that all 90 of us just applauded, no, and that there was no one who would ever say clearly that there might be a thing in which the emperor was ever naked. And I'm not saying about this law, no, you're not naked in this law, but you're clean, you're fully dressed and you're not, and we wanted to warn you about these things, and if, based on past years' experience, we're warning that we're going to think together about whether the law is actually laid down, if we're going to say this, it doesn't mean that you're going to get on our nerves, as you say. No, not at all. You are saying that in some way you continue what the previous government has drawn in the area of the defence and security system, but it is true that I do not know what is in mathematics, but here we are probably both about the same, not because if we are proposing that this means of investing in the Slovenian Army should be taken because of the situation that we are in, and which is likely to be made worse because of the ongoing epidemic, but to take a more conservative approach, and you say that you are more realistic, as we have suggested, and that you have also picked it up, but not because 50 million and 50 million are 100 million, 100 million and 245 million, and 145 million are 245 million, it is said that the dynamic is not exactly the same, but I say that, as we see it is more real. In the past, we had the law and it was only realized in some other times, I think, one week of what it predicted, and therefore we note that in some situations we are very much alike, or even worse, and that in the government of Marjana Sarca, as regards investment or placement of money in the defence system, in some other times of great conjuncture, when no one has ever talked about the epidemic, we have planned these expenditures a little more conservatively, so we rightly now warn that we are in a completely different situation, that in the meantime, what is happening and is still happening to us and that because of this, of course, we promise that it will be very difficult to do so. Perhaps I would point to this, but when she somehow snuck into this debate now, there were allegations that we would be investing extremely much in research and development, not, but I can't find it, no, but now if we're going in line, that's right, but you might explain where the research and development is here, but if we're talking about 128 million for a transport aircraft, two helicopters, a hangar at Brnika and facilities in Churches, and 408 million for vehicles 4 x 4 and vehicles 8 x 8 and 56 for tactical transport vehicles, logistics equipment and medical equipment, 40 for an updated military radio system, 40 logistics facilities, infrastructure, 65 anti-lock missiles, air defence short range missiles, replacement of air defence systems and 34 light infantry weapons, 40 for an updated military radio system, 40 logistics facilities, infrastructure, 65 anti-lock missiles and special equipment, and short range. Now I really don't find where this strong investment in R & D could be, so it's a shame, I think we're deceiving people here, if that makes it absolutely clear what this procurement plan is like. So if I conclude, I really ask you not to contradict our words, because from the beginning to the end today and also in the past we have advocated investing in the defence system itself as well as, of course, all efforts to complete the kind of Slovenian army. But if we warn you about this, it doesn't mean – and please don't put this in our mouth – that we're against the Slovenian army.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is Lydia Ivanus.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u70	Good afternoon. Mr President, thank you for saying so. Good-bye, everyone. Today's meeting seems very important to me because the Slovenian army has been quite neglected and repeatedly mentioned in recent years as unnecessary in terms of development and financing in the area of staffing, modernisation and procurement of appropriate mechanisms and consumer material. Therefore, in recent years, financing has also come across the deaf ear, with the exception of the most urgent. As far as funding is concerned, the Slovenian army as a member of NATO's Union was also one of the smallest recipients of GDP as the other members of the EU, also due to the global economic crisis, in its more than ten-year membership. This is how the military today faces enormous financial undernutrition due to savings and a small number of soldiers, and there is no desire for this profession in the current situation. Therefore, last time in view of the situation within the country and around the world, it is necessary to make some of the investments necessary to establish the most important military tasks and to raise the standards that are in force in NATO. The Republic of Slovenia also assumes a proportionate part of its responsibility to ensure national security in the collective defence system, which in grave also means respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, thus protecting the lives and high level of all forms of security of the population and so on. The White Book of the Slovenian Army states that Slovenia will have an army capable of defending the country. I think that without financial reinforcement and an increase in the number of employees in the Slovenian army, probably not. It is therefore necessary to adopt this law on the provision of investments for the better functioning of the Slovenian army. If we look at the salaries of the soldiers, the soldier gets a minimum wage of around €727 net for his physical and mental efforts. How are we going to get soldiers if they get more for easier work somewhere else? In such a way, with low financial revenues, this profession is not deceiving. At one of the previous meetings, we tried to reintroduce mandatory recruitment into this system and the law was not adopted. And if it were, it would be beneficial at these times or periods, depending on the situation. By not adopting this law, we have defrauded the army a little for at least partially qualified soldiers to carry out certain tasks that they cannot perform or carry out because of their understaffing. To meet financial undernutrition, therefore, one is known, in the absence of soldiers, the other, in the case of old and worn equipment, obsolete machinery and consumption material such as bullets and the inability to perform certain tasks due to lack of personnel. The law will allow the development of the Slovenian Army, and I think it is also time for the champions in our country to be placed in places of honor and not in the places of the campers. Of course I'll support the marriage. However, at Mr Medved, last December 2019, Mr Šarec pointed out at the NATO meeting that he was aware of the commitments made and, above all, the responsibility for his own safety. I ask you in what concrete way you would achieve all of this, given that today you have a lot of comments on this prepared law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u71	Thank you very much. There's a colleague, Jože Lenart. Get ready for the mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u72	Thank you very much, President. What is this sustainable budget of the Republic of Slovenia, respected colleagues and colleagues, and especially the respected Minister of Defence? Do we still remember? It wasn't long ago that we talked about this in particular. What kind of fiscal rule is that? Gold fiscal rule? What is this maastricht agreement? This is said to mean that the country's indebtedness does not exceed 60% of GDP. This goal, these were three key objectives. Were these not very specific requirements on one side of the opposition and on the other hand the basic objectives of the government in 2018-2020 in the adoption of budgets? Even to the Constitutional Court there were applications, both in stock by the opposition, although we even exceeded the stated objectives and commitments at the time. Today, we are looking at deficits in all four countries. All the ministries. Today, Slovenia's indebtedness is on the rise in the face of a crisis that we do not know where it ends. Where are the health-care solutions, for nursing homes, for the demographic fund? Dear Minister, when we address the balance of the budget 2020-2021 in this National Assembly, we can talk about these wishes that are on the agenda today. How am I supposed to trust this government, which has initially focused on non-transparent healthcare supplies, in the equipment that is still in use in health care, and is lying through warehouses during this time of crisis that we are living through. You have a yearning for planes, helicopters, armor. What about sustainable health care, and we don't even know how to care for the elderly today. Look, don't mind me, I also want to say a little in the parable, I suggest you take a vacation, along with the entire government, with the president at the head, cool your heads in the water, in the mountain fresh air, and come in autumn with a proposal for a sustainable rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 and we will start to talk seriously about the future of Slovenia. I'm going on vacation, and I expect that we will have a serious debate on this in September. We want to see the whole picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, prepare to be Comrade Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! Good-bye! To be clear immediately, I am one of those who fully realize that there is no prosperity without security. I can even step up, I believe that there is a broad attitude in the Slovenian public that so far Slovenia has actually had two very good ministers, two very good ministers, Dr Ljubica Jelusic and her successor, Mrs Andrejo. And I am fully aware that it is necessary to invest in security, to hope that if there is a situation where we need security to help others, it is utopian, it is wrong and it means ignorance of historical facts. I also have great respect for Slovenian soldiers and Slovenian soldiers. However, today, after a public debate, which was more counted in seconds, minutes than a very serious debate in days, weeks, that the professional public can determine that those who need to say say what needs to be said are before us a document that gives hope that the Slovenian Army will be modernised, while at the same time requiring us to be confident that they will allow more than 700 million Euros of purchases. And I may ask you, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, but you may be joking. But you have such a short-term memory, or do you think that we have such a short-term memory that we would not have in our memory all the suspicions, terrible suspicions, imprudentity in the acquisition of protective equipment and that it is even worse, organizing an action how largely I doubt to explore. You have prevented a genuine parliamentary investigation in this House by your leadership. You're heading those top institutes that have to investigate your actions and now you're asking us to trust you. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the current government. In my case, you don't even trust Social Democrats to get a toothbrush, let alone 100 million investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u75	Thank you. The word has Franz Jurša, prepare the mags. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u76	Mr. President, thank you for your word. Nice greeting to the Minister, as of course to all Members and Members. Once upon a time, we were just Slovenians and Slovenes, and my generation decided that we would go into integration. First, we decided with a large percentage to join the European Union, and then we decided to join the military alliance with NATO at the same time. We should all be, and I'm well aware that it's imperative to have your safety. That that's when we decided to be with NATO. It has been evaluated and evaluated and we have estimated that this will be cheaper for our country. And, of course, at the same time, a larger umbrella under which we will stand. Trust in one another, today has been a great deal of talk, we don't trust anything. We don't trust each other absolutely, and it's hard to believe that in responsible places like the Member of Parliament, we have no trust in each other, so that, of course, we build something in common with this trust. I remember one year ago when I came to the National Assembly when one of the relatively highly experienced Members told me from the occasion at the beginning of the term “Today is the day when the battle for a new power begins in the next term”. It's a principle that always tells me, but in the National Assembly, it's actually a battle. And if we had a little more respect for each other, a better relationship, of course, it would be so much better for the country, but of course at the same time for citizens and citizens. You know, the topic we have on the agenda today is a very important populist debate for some. I actually belong to one group, one side where I should first talk about bread and butter, about hospitals, not about bread and butter, just about iron and weapons, and of course about hospitals and the military, and logically, those who would watch me, listen to me, would say, if they were talking about iron and weapons, if they were talking about military, this is not ours, this is not right, he could talk about bread and butter and hospitals. Your Honor! Now we're going a little different. Safety is one of the greatest good. When you lose it, you barely realize you don't have it. And if you don't have security and defense, then you don't have freedom. From this point of view, we should think a little bit and see what we actually want. Let's do it in a row. The defence system consists of an army, areas of protection and rescue, areas of protection, and solutions are largely covered by certain activities. And today, in peace, we still feel the functioning of the system, military, protection and rescue in various areas. I'm not going to repeat the areas in which it actually feels. You know, at local level, mayors are responsible for the area of protection, and a lot of mayors have initially thought about it, but we don't need it, and we're not going to invest it. You know when he began to think differently when something happened to him in his own congregation. And then this security detail, and this need, it was critical. Yeah, we remember some back there. Financing of the defence area. I remember in 2007, I think that at the time, I do not have this information on me that we were the closest 2% of the gross social product to the defence funds at the time. And then there was the crisis, and in the crisis, we kept going back and we got to noon, so I'm sorry, we got to noon. Everyone was taking whatever they were taking, everything was taking place with the soldier, and the minister says we actually came halfway to what we had in the past. Given that I somehow understand that bread and butter are needed, that hospitals, health and everything are needed, but that safety is also needed. I'll decide to support it. Of course, as a supervisory authority, as an individual, as a member of the Defence Committee, I will still look forward to getting timely information so that there will be no unnecessary matters here, as we understand what I mean by that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, get ready for Franz Kepa.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u78	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! The army is a pillar of statehood. This was very quickly and very clearly demonstrated when Slovenia, after its independence after a long period of time, was able to enjoy the fruits of independence and at the same time to the security provided by the collective alliance we entered, faced a new completely different threat, with illegal migrations that threaten not only individual countries, but the entire European civilization. And then it turned out that, for the first time, the collective alliance in this case does not perform or cannot perform the tasks that we would like. Inside the alliance is all one member, specifically Turkey, who will not do anything against radical Islam because it itself encourages it. So we are faced with a completely different situation than we would have wanted just a few years ago, as we had only imagined a few years ago. And this is a situation in which you can only and exclusively equip yourself on your own strength. For safety, this is essential, namely, those who were then in the first wave, to what we popularly called the Cerar Express, the mass migrations that rolled through Slovenia, you saw that as long as there were only policemen and firefighters, members of civil protection, everything was flying through the air. There's been violence, riots. When members of the Slovenian army appeared, everything was calm, everything was nice, everything was fine, just as they wanted. Of course, that says something. He says we need an army. But not only do we need it for safety, but security is one and indivisible, and how important it is, we only realize it when we lose it, but we also need the army because it performs many other tasks. I remember in the last few months, when we were talking about pandemic issues here, and some of the other side of the hall said, "Yes, but the army would rather take care of health" - good morning, the army is already doing so. The military helped defuse individual facilities, the military helped transport, the military helped build a mobile hospital, and the military always helped when it was necessary to provide organized force to help people in distress. Therefore, of course, it is justified to say that the army is a pillar of statehood. Another aspect of what we are talking about today is respect for international obligations. The obligations to which, contrary to what we have been listening to for the past decade, we have been bound by Tone Rob, LDS, and his comrades from some of the parties, today some have been renamed, others have been replaced, one I don't know how many, but they are still one and the same. At that time, Tone Rop publicly pledged that Slovenia would respect the commitment to increase the amount of money to defend itself in order to meet its obligations within the Alliance. He also made a very specific commitment. Thus, when it comes to such matters, it is necessary to know who really accepted this covenant. Lefties. And then, of course, they ate up the Balkan word like they usually do. And today, when the law is before us, which means the realization of at least the minimum that Slovenia urgently needs for its own safety, to preserve its statehood, to preserve its credibility in the international environment, then again listens to all possible and impossible stupidity. Like, ad everything we're talking about wouldn't have any specific values. Ladies and gentlemen, security is the foundation of value. Without security, there's nothing. Just imagine that you are living, just as some people are even publicly defending themselves, with open borders as they roll the hordes of such and different people past, each one takes a car and smashes it and then it's not punished or anything like that. What we need is an effective, well-organised, but of course a rational Slovenian army, and of course we need an army that will also have the appropriate powers to carry out all its tasks. It is very sad that today they had very much to say to those who have had Slovenian troops in the same breath when they report that they do not carry out their tasks, do not allow them to protect Slovenian borders to help the police and thus ensure the fundamental task that the military has – defending borders, preserving integrity and ensuring security. This, of course, requires the law that is before us today to ensure security and adequately strengthen this pillar of statehood, also to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Kepa, get ready for Jerz Korča.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! It is known that the current situation in the Slovenian Army is poor, the investment for the modernisation of military equipment has not been carried out, the number of soldiers has been decreasing, our president has estimated for several years that the Slovenian Army has been ready for a state of peace, but is not ready for a state of war, for a defence mission. This is similar to the comparison that the lamp is electrically broken for the afternoon, but not at night. The reduction in the readiness of the military was caused by the economic crisis there after 2008, and for many years money was systematically taken from the defence budget. The standard of soldiers has also decreased; young people do not want to join because of their poor personal income. In the Republic of Slovenia, after 2010, defence expenditure fell from 1.61 GDP to 0.93 in 2015. The percentage of investment funds earmarked for modernisation and equipment decreased after 2010 and reached the bottom in 2014, when only 1.34% of investments were accepted in 2010 as part of national and allied planning cycles. In addition to the two medium-term battalion fighting groups, the objectives included a wide range of preparedness, special units, helicopter capabilities, which are very much available in peacekeeping activities, air defences and logistics capabilities. All these cases have not been carried out. This new investment law provides for investments in the Slovenian Army between 2021 and 2026 to allocate 780 million funds, but of course this is divided into 6 years and the first two years after 100 million euros and the next four years after 145 million euros per year. The funds will be provided through regular annual budgets in the years 2021 to 2026 of the Ministry of Defence's financial plan. The annual amount of funding provided may also be higher, with annual spending not exceeding EUR million. It is right to devote some additional resources to the military, as funds have been declining for more than a decade. Young people do not choose the profession of soldiers because they are uncompetitive in the labour market and they need to be improved. Often, the military carries out humanitarian actions, which was seen in natural disasters, most at the acorns, windstorms, floods. In recent actions in the outbreak of the virus, she performed a huge task of transport, when it became clear that there was a need for another transport aircraft to transport means of protection, protective equipment and we asked neighbouring countries to drive this aircraft. Even with helicopters, the military offers transportation of the unfortunate in the mountains and also on the roads very often. These helicopters are also worn out and very old, and there is an urgent need for an update. We have decided in the past to have it, we have also decided at the referendum to go to NATO, and there are also some commitments, some commitments, some financial obligations, and they need to be fulfilled. We have not fulfilled this commitment for some years or decades, and we have not fulfilled it. I think we are the second country in NATO to pay at least the funds in terms of gross social product from all of us involved in this organisation. That is why we are constantly warned, the summit of NATO, that at least we should get closer to some average of these commitments. Security is one of the pillars of the country, as has been said, and without a modernly equipped army we cannot guarantee security. Soldiers themselves, colleagues say that they perform on missions abroad, that they are often quite ashamed to have the equipment they have. And they're uncomfortable with that kind of equipment going on missions. In 1991 it was well seen the need for an army, the need for some kind of weaponry, at least a basic one. Despite the weapons seized just before that, the Slovenian Army defended the country with a minimum weapon, which remains. Thank God the police were a little more equipped. Without at least this weapon, one of the basic weapons, perhaps this country would not have been or would have been in a different form. Here you can see that the military is needed, for basic security, but in peacetime conditions, it is very good for these accidents and assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has Jerco Korče, prepare for the Victory of the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everyone. Now, I will respond to what the Minister has said, that he somehow feels attacked from a political point of view and that we can freely attack him as minister and leave the Slovenian Army alone. I think we are not attacking anyone, nor the minister, even less the Slovenian Army, but it is only right to ask real questions here. And we're talking about the 780 million-euro law, not just talking about something so little, but not at the beginning. However, the discussion on closing trade on Sundays was much more turbulent, and it wished much more interest on the part of all Members than we do when we talk about 780 million. That's ridiculous. And if we ask you from the opposition, as a responsible Member, I would like to know some things before deciding. And that's right for everyone, I expect it to be every Member. And yes, we want to know what the public financial situation is. Where we are, what a deficit is, without it I do not even hope to vote on this law. Moreover, this law should not come into the procedure at all without knowing what the financial situation is at present. That's the problem. Suddenly, 780 million hard marriages take place in mid - July, and this is worrying. And here we are not just talking about this substantive aspect, we are also talking about the procedural aspect, that it is really irresponsible for me, that anyone today will press the button for, without knowing what the public financial situation is, what the deficit is. Moreover, I think we should wait for the post-rebalancing period, when we also see real numbers, from unemployment, to where the priorities will be. Because at this point, I as the opposition Member do not have this because I do not receive this data, but I believe that the Government does not have a clear picture of itself, what will happen when they give up the freezing measures from your antikron packages, because some special alternatives or visions in the economic field this Government does not set out how to raise domestic consumption, encourage gross social product and so on. You know, these are problems, so the Minister doesn't feel threatened, but I believe these answers, I believe that you, too, in our role, would expect the Minister of Defence to give you 780 million euros in marriage. Without that, I think, once again, it is irresponsible of every Member of Parliament to decide this law at all today. And yes, I wonder why you are in such a hurry to adopt such a law without a wider consensus. We are talking about a six-year period, and I think that this broader consensus could be obtained if we could have a slightly more active communication, if, after all, we also included a public debate involving different experts and so on, but, once again, without having numbers in front of us, I think that it is also extremely irresponsible for coalition Members to decide on this law. And yes, as far as trust is concerned, confidence is one of the foundations on which politics can be built, and it is not an attack if we are to be honest with ourselves that the acquisition of weapons plus the government of Janez Janša cannot in this equation, given past experience, give a normal profit, such as once again an affair. Because some people don't know otherwise, they turn once, they turn second, they do the same the third time, they do the fourth time. These are problems, and this country does not deserve another affair in the weapons field. And this is not to say that I respect the Slovenian army, that I am aware that today, as the Commander in Chief, there has been a drastic decline in resources, which then continued, where, then, the government of Mira Cerar has slightly rectified the trend that the government of Marjan Sarca continued with this trend in some proportionate and normal curve. And you know, Minister, if you say that maybe some incident didn't happen, you go to the media, you say it's fake news. This is also damaging to the Slovenian Army, but don't take it as an attack, it's a fact. Just like your group leader says the police are following him, then the next day he says it's a lapsus, even more so, Marjana Sharca and his associates are pressing charges. But you know, that's about as much as I'd say, Joseph Horvath was on my mouth yesterday, and then the next day he'd come in front of the cameras and say, sorry, lapsus, he loaned me a robe. That's kind of how these things work, isn't it? And these are some serious accusations, you can tell your colleague Kordiš that he is expressing some of the things that would be for the assessment of the ethical code, but you know, even such accusations, which are very serious at the expense of the previous Prime Minister and his associates, I also conclude that I, whether or not I know who you thought as a helper, are very serious accusations and are very easily made, but they are targeting the police at last because of some internal political struggle. But you know, quickly, I'll say, boomerang returns or the mirror sets up who with his statements, with various thrusts due to some prestigious political struggle creates structures and then speaks back, you want to harm the Slovenian Army. No, it's not true, even with statements, with all these structures, the system is damaged, perhaps by the police or the military. And I suggest that every Member who pushes this button today in his explanation of vote may say to me, I will vote on what I have seen to be such a financial situation, I know what the forecast for September, October, November, December, I know where the priorities of this government are, I know how we are going to solve this, so I can push it easily, because I know that there is enough budget money. According to my publicly available data, I believe that 2 billion 350 million deficits are already under way. Only to know what will happen when these measures of yours freeze or our measures, because we are all in the same country, give in. What unemployment is going to be, what's going to happen? You don't know. Because we're on this frozen ship and we're sailing. We don't know, and it's irresponsible that this is how we ad hoc adopt a law that isn't interventional, but it's not necessary. We need investments, yes. We need them to that extent, I don't think so at the moment. We can talk about some normal scale of defence spending — yes. This is what we have been trying to do when we were on the side of the coalition – we have also raised defence spending and we wanted this trend to continue because, I agree, the Slovenian Army deserves a lot of things, including equipping it properly. How and by what, of course, we can hold a debate. Moreover, I think we could also start a debate or actually go back to negotiating or needing a two-middle battalion group, which is my personal opinion as a junior Member. We can specialize in some things and maybe offer it to Nate as an alternative. And yes, I'm very sorry that we go with things like this with our heads through the wall. And I hope it doesn't come to us that in a few years, we'll be left with a dead letter on paper, or there's two ways, or you'll be making contracts and bringing business so far that we'll be dealing with another affair or it'll be a dead letter on paper. And then you'll wave, because then we passed the law, and now some other government doesn't. But none of this is good, because it serves a purpose that I don't think is real. And to say that we're against the army, through the same thing, is a little inappropriate. So I hope that all of you who are going to press this law through the first reading today know all of what I am, all of these dilemmas that I have highlighted, because these dilemmas are a personal responsibility before I press the button. Minister, I'll tell you this, this ad person, since you mentioned me at the beginning, right at the very beginning of your time, I'm not attacking anyone. I don't feel sorry for anyone. I ask questions, however, because it is the Member's primary task to ask questions. What's more, I don't think I've ever gone to ad persona level with you. But if it seems to you that the questions because you are now in the executive branch of the Member's wrong path, then when you were a Member for several years, you acted very badly, asking the ministers and asking them for answers so that they could decide for themselves and make some real decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word has the victory of the Jelinčič noble, prepares colleague Joseph Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Well, today it's heard a whole bunch of weird sausagers, and in fact it's a shame not to give the army money, because it's the Slovenian army, it's not the occupying army, it's not the army of JLA, but it's the Slovenian Army, where Slovenian boys and girls serve. We have to be proud of that. Unfortunately, here I am listening mainly to how this Slovenian army should collapse. It is, in fact, tragic that some in here want to break down the Slovenian Army and, of course, break down the country as well. I think that I still insist that a recruitment system and compulsory military service be urgently needed, as this would open up to some young people who are now, say, cycling around Parliament some horizons that are now closed and covered with some LGBT variants or with some pension options or something like that. This is what does not belong in Slovenian cultural space [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u85	Dear colleague Jelinčič, please refrain from any hostile speech [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u86	What am I supposed to hold on to? What did I say? [[…]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u87	Look. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u88	Yeah, well, LGBT, you're LGBT too, so what? Are you ashamed? [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u89	My friend Jelinčič [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u90	Are you ashamed?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u91	My friend Jelinčič [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u92	Are you ashamed? Why are you so embarrassed? [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u93	Comrade Jelinczych! [[adverts from benches]] Look. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Comrade Jelinčič, now please peace! If I don't interrupt the session for an hour, if you need to calm down. I'm asking you to refrain from any enemy or any kind of enemy. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] A speech that stigmatizes anyone. Please, nice! We're talking about an army.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u94	Nice, nice, very nice. The great love for the Slovenian Army shows itself. I hope that I will not be interrupted now when I say that there is a great love for the Slovenian Army. It's about bringing down the army. And when some people talk about how much money is going to go down, they have to say that with that trade law, when trade is closed on Sundays, it's going to take about 120 million less in the state treasury each year. But it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. This is also important in order to bring the country down. When a gentleman from SD says he doesn't trust, he wouldn't trust the acquisition of a toothbrush to this government, but I wonder if he trusted those who built the TES6. That's okay, of course. Toothbrush costs too little. TES6 is no longer a good commodity where something is worth getting. And I don't think some people understand what the military means. It's the army that protects the borders of the state. That's the definition of an army. And all these countries are proud of their armies. Slovenians aren't supposed to be because we have some raspberries here who don't like it. I hope Raspberry's not a terrible word. They use any method to defile the Slovenian Army. Just like they're making up for some border incidents when soldiers are supposed to stop someone who has nothing to do there. If someone walks outside the border crossing or across the border, I'm sorry, any normal soldier in any country in the world would stop this man and say, "What are you doing here?" No, not with us. But with us, this is a crime committed by the military. Instead of getting this soldier's commendation, these left-wing media guys roll him up and spit on him and everything. What kind of country are we? What kind of country are we? And since we're looking at the photos of that young man, it reminds me more of an Afghan than it does of a Slovenian. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Yeah, look at that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u95	Comrade Jelinczych!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u96	Yeah, look at that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u97	My friend Jelinčič, please hold on to some of these. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u98	And the president, the photo was in the papers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u99	Just [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u100	Do I have the right to say what I see or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u101	Don't stigmatize anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u102	I have a right to say what I mean. This is Parliament. If anyone doesn't like it, write it down. The fact is [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] The fact is that there is a base for the demolition of the Slovenian state, the Slovenian army, the Slovenian economy and more. And so, President, as soon as something exclaims, you take my word for it. That's not what you do. Even when they spit on me, I don't say anything. I'm listening. That's their opinion. It's their opinion. I don't mind. Everyone has the right to an opinion. And everyone has the right to express his or her opinion. And that's why I say again, once again, I stand by my words, I don't jump from customer to client to find a better position or something like that. I insist on my way and will also persist in my way and stand by my words. That's why I say: it's right for the military to get the money, it's right for the army to get stronger, and it's right that we have at least someone who's willing to protect this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u103	Thank you. Procedural colleague Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u104	In a procedural manner, I ask you to warn the Member of the Victory of Jelinčič not to make fun of and spread hate speech against the LGBT community. I am a very proud member of the LGBT community and that you will know what some soldiers are also members of the LGBT community. And don't insult the soldiers from that point of view. Okay? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u105	Comrade Korazi, Ambassador Yelinčič, I warned you during the speech. Joseph Lenart has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greetings to all present. If I listen to these discussions today, it was somehow clear to me that the larger part of the opposition to the left sex is the Slovenian army. A thorn in the heel. But in the middle, so those of you who think you're in the middle, that kind of doesn't work together, and that's new. So that from these discussions today our representatives of the nation are no longer aware, or we still want an army, or it is a new socialist experiment, what would it be like to completely destroy it. So this path is wanted for some military retreat and, of course, I don't know what it's like to have an army without soldiers and what it's like to have soldiers without equipment and so on. This will not work together, and of course we will not at all confirm that we actually would or would allow it. And Supreme Commander Borut Pahor himself confirmed a long time ago that we have, several times in a row, he confirmed that we have a problem, namely, the army is only adequately trained to operate in peace. But look, an army isn't just necessary to act in peace. It's okay to have her in peace to help, but are you ridiculous? If we set up an army just for peace, then that was one expensive investment. We set up an army to defend us, and then the army is also in the event of all the troubles to defend us, and even when aggression occurs, what has happened here in times past. If I now touch on the problems I have encountered in the field, it is among the soldiers during our work visits to the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Soldiers say they're still happy, but the equipment's out of date. When they're at home, they don't notice and they don't hurt much, but when they show up at international exercises and training, the equipment differences are so obvious and they feel threatened because they realize that the world is so much and so much ahead of us. And if we have the most obsolete equipment, then we're at some risk, right? So if we say now that we have also promised, we have promised a lot of time, and we are back on the tail, among all 30 members of NATO we are in 25th place after providing defence funds. This moment we have somehow 1.06 GDP earmarked for defense. For 10 years, we have been promising to establish a middle battalion battle group — nothing from it, since we have no equipment for it. Do we know that? I think we know. Above all, those who were in government know. Then let's make an old saying that the most undenial bread is said. In the LMŠ Group today, they really stood up to Levica, the Levica, who made a manual commitment to all defence supplies. [[Incomprehensible]] And we haven't forgotten that. They were kind of, what can I say? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u107	Time's up. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. I'm going through the list. The application shall be made. If he wants to discuss the government's representative, please sign up. He'll get the last word. Each one has two minutes. The first one is a colleague of Mojca Škrnjar. Would you like to discuss it?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. I want to say that security is a fundamental human need, so a country called a state has an army. This army needs to be taken care of, and this army has been taken care of in the past by the stepmother. Finally, we have a government and a minister who cares about the state and the military. I'll support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u109	Thank you. The word has magic. Carmen Furman. Next mag. Marko Poga [[…]] [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Branko Grimes. Nick Pretbil. Tadej Shuštar. [[No, no, ……]] Masha Kociper. It's Yuri Ferrian. No, I'm not. Andrey Chernigoy. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we believe that the necessary investments are made very rationally and I will also support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Colleague Anja Bah Žibert. You want a word? My friend Bojan Podkoršek? [[No, no, ……]] Alaj Kovačič. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Although it was a coalition party, it was heard that no one in the opposition or on the left respected the army. I respect the Slovenian Army as well as all the bodies operating in Slovenia. Now that Slovenian soldiers are underpaid or underpaid, I think we all agree. I also think we should maintain the army properly, which is unfortunately not in the last 30 years. However, I am not stupid enough to vote for a bill worth €780 million after a short presentation, if I am not mistaken, because I wonder how much of this money will come to the Slovenian Army in recent practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Next up is colleague Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The dignity of man, freedom, justice and security, these are the four pillars of the New Slovenia programme and the four foundations of society that must follow, once again, the dignity of man, his freedom, his justice and security. I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, chairman. Particularly against €780 million for the army alone, this is the title on the portal Radio Television Slovenia. This address is quite eloquent. If in any area there is virtually no change during the exchange of the previous and the current government, this is the area of military procurement. The same rhetoric, the same excuses, the same political commitments that the Slovenian budget exhausts for arms purchases under the NATO Pact. Why? In order to make it easier for the Slovenian Army to participate in missions abroad, far away from the borders of its homeland, for the occupation of the Third World countries, for the implementation of American imperialism. And it's in this area that shows, not where the political class is different, but where and how it's the same. While hundreds of millions are being given to purchase unnecessary NATO weapons, which by the way are not suitable for the defence of the country, it is appropriate for the occupation of the third world and thus exhausting items that should serve people. Our health services are falling apart. We have hospitals that have rooms in buildings from the 19th century. There are 11,000 beds missing in the nursing homes, 10,000 public rental apartments for young people are missing and, of course, there will be no money for all these vital projects if the money goes to war. I say war weapons, because in the middle battalion group being set up, armored men, hoodies, missiles, these are not national defence formations, they are offensive formations for the occupation of third world countries. In Levica, of course, we will vote against this crazy spending of public money and for the funds to go to the homes of the elderly to health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Next reported by Dr. Fran Trček.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry, I don't have any other glasses. What is the mother of all our affairs? Weapons. What's her favorite daughter? Patrio's affair. Of course, I have always said that there is nothing worse than frustrated repressive authorities, remember then 2014 I flew in and I started a debate on the problem of the police. Now, with some expert in Richie, whom I appreciate very much, we talked today about what the budget deficit is for the current year, go Google, stop bluffing, we have to ask ourselves where I'm going to find bread in the fall, respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath, next.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! No matter what media it is or what it is, we do not work for the media, we work for people, we work for this country, I and the New Slovenia Group will support this law at first reading. I also thank my colleague Nik Prebil for calling me a populism because I quoted fellow Member Marjan Šarc, once the Prime Minister of the Government, who said and I agree when he said in October 2018 when he visited Mr Stoltenberg, saying: "Slovenia must fulfil its commitments for its own sake, not for others." I hope, colleagues and colleagues, that we will not be very fond of these acquisitions when it comes to an average of 1.3% of the country's average annual budget, that we will not be dealing with political corruption, as we are on a national holiday, on 17 August 2018, when we discussed the initiative on the Committee on Foreign Policy to conclude an agreement between the Government of Slovenia and the organisation to participate in the common arms of OKAR, this is a European organisation, on the execution of the boxer programme, when a colleague from the Left first proposed to withdraw the point and we voted it out, when he remembered that the vote on the same day was on the mandate holder and that the future coalition would count and indeed count on what the coalition is then, a colleague from the LMŠ, proposed that the point would actually end and then it was also voted out and that the point would then be counted and that the future coalition would be counted, which is then again, on February 27, 2019. This is a school case of political corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u121	Thank you. The next one is Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u122	Thank you. No, you don't work for the media because you're adapting the media to yourself or at least you want them and you've proven in these four months that you don't drive purchases in the area of, say, protective equipment and what your colleague mentioned, not in the field of military equipment in the past. We don't have any problems with the military, and you keep stressing it on this side and throwing it at us in advance. We have no problems with the military, but we have problems with this government. There's always a ghost, a country, that's me. That's me. You've personalized everything and individualized it. The army is yours, the rest of us don't like it. The people are yours, the rest of us don't like them. You're sharing your money, and we're opposed to it. No, you're sharing public money, and it's very imprudent, even as far as the National Assembly is concerned, but if it's effective, I hope, deep down, others will be judging. The military's money, and the government's bankroll for the next six years absolutely not.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Next up is Daniel Krivec. No, Eva Irgle. Joseph Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u124	Thank you so much for letting me finish. In particular, we support funds for the military. Look, we can't send a soldier in his underwear on a military mission, either in peace or in war. As far as LMŠ is concerned, you committed yourself again to warning 2018, to alert NATO, to commit, in writing, to go to 1.5% of GDP by 2026. Do you know what 1.5% of GDP is? In 2026. If we have EUR 25 billion of GDP. 370 million, now it's 100 million? It's one of those things. And then, the other thing is that I actually appeal to all the Members of the people present to support this law and thus support our efforts to maintain our army and our homeland together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Joza Lenart, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u126	Yes, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. When the government presents a sustainable balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the autumn, where health solutions for older people's homes for the demographic fund, we can talk about investments in the military. Now, the distinguished minister and, of course, the whole government, we go on vacation, cool our heads and get ready for the fall, because it's going to be very difficult for everyone, we'll all have a lot of work to do, and we know why.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u127	Thank you very much. As a last resort, the government representative, Minister Matthew Tonin, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u128	Dear Members and Members. I'll give you all a nice vacation. Of course, I am also grateful to you for today's debate, which was very diverse, varied, varied, and if they hold to the media's allegations that the only Left will vote against it, then I will be very happy and the army will be happy. With the proposals made so far, the government has provided more than a billion euros, such as workers, families, pensioners, students, and, finally, we have provided the municipalities with additional money that many governments have failed to do before and will be able to make this money available to resolve regional differences. The Government's priority is certainly health and safety, and this government has already provided more than 30 million euros for GMOs, and has a programme to build new homes for older people who have not been built for decades. Of course, security needs a broad consensus. I did not detect any warm water, and I continued with the good work done by my predecessors, in particular by the Social Democrats for quite some time, and by Desus and other parties, and that is why all of this, this law was built on the extensive debates we had in this Parliament regarding the SOPR. [[?]] And the White Paper of ReSDPRO, all these documents have been taken into account. There was a broad debate, so there were criticisms about it. [[sign for the end of the debate]] that we are doing something our own way, completely unjustifiable, because we are strictly sticking to what has been adopted in this House and what we have already accepted. Of course, all matters are as rational as possible, under the circumstances we are facing, and this law also has many safeguards. Each year it will be necessary to report to the National Assembly on how this money is being spent, and this law also makes it clear which segments of the money will go into. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Finally, let me say that this law is supported by the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor. Thank you very much. Have a nice and happy vacation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-43.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate and move to a vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal of the Law on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026 is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 79 Members present, for 49, for 16. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Defence Committee as its parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the assembly.
