ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Eva Irgl, Gregor Židan, Anja Bah Žibert, Mojca Žnidarič, Franc Kramar, Victory Jelinčič Tribal, Dr. Franz Duck and Mag. Dean Kaloh. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending the law on the Slovenian Press Agency, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of eight Members and Members with the first-signed Luka Mesec. At its 10th session, on 7 October 2020, the Committee on Culture considered the working body as a parent. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, whose position will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u2	All together, well-respected colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president of the National Assembly! Today, any change in the law that touches the media space is being monitored with the greatest measure of scepticism and we wonder what the political will really is. With the amendment of the Slovenian Press Agency Act, we have only one substantive impact on the law. In order to provide information to the international public about developments in the non-governmental sector in Slovenia, we are expanding the definition of public service publishing and archiving content in English about the functioning of NGOs. The representative of the Government, at a meeting of the committee on the draft law, was not expected to support it, as the law was already intended to follow primarily the objectives set out in the proposal. The argument is as follows: the possibility of reporting on volunteering and non-governmental organisations is found in the legal dictatorship of the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act, 8th indent and other contents. If the field of non-governmental and voluntary organisations in the Slovenian reporting policy is specifically defined, why is it hidden in a line of other content when reporting in English? The government of Janez Janša would quietly wipe out all partners who, according to his words, line up on the blisters of taxpayers. However, it forgets that NGOs are those organisations granted this status by the State. NGOs represent one of the three main pillars of modern society; they bear the principles of participatory democracy; they form a civil society without which the development of democracy in the Republic of Slovenia is not possible. For this reason, we support any development, growth and, let us be realistic, also adapting NGOs to the needs of the market, which is now a difficult force in the international public today. The statement by the SDS Member of the Committee on Culture that it is not true not to support NGOs is far from that, far away, certain. According to Member Branko Grims, in 2018, the SDS will end public funding of NGOs during the election campaign when it takes place in power, when millions are thrown out of the window and Slovenia has no use for them. 59% of European Union citizens believe that young people's climate protests have had an impact on the policies of the European Union, which shows the benefits of well-organised meetings in Slovenia as well. The bill has no financial implications. The legislative and legal service has no comments on the amendment, but it is of substantive importance. In the AB Party, we support the idea that the international public is informed of developments in the field of volunteering and NGOs. They just recognize and satisfy the needs that the country does not satisfy, but they are useful for all people in Slovenia. In the ruling party, as John Janša said, they come from what is good for the citizens they have chosen. At the AB party, however, we come from what is good for all citizens. We will therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. The position will be presented by Yuri Leprechaun.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Press Agency has an important service of up-to-date public information on the most relevant topics in various fields, politics, economy, culture, volunteering, NGOs and many other very important topics for the Slovenian people. We believe that the Slovenian Press Agency is one of the most neutral media. The editors, journalists and the entire team would be required to give commendation for their work. With regard to the proposal to report STA on the topics of volunteering and non-governmental organisations in the English language in the Desus Group, we did not have a single opinion. In the debate that we have held within our group, both the arguments for supporting the proposal and for rejecting the proposal have emerged. In the final stage, the majority opinion prevailed that the proposals on the parent's working body were not supported. Of course, it is most important that the Slovenian public is first informed of the current topics, which is also the primary task of the Slovenian Press Agency. We must point out that, as a source of information, it has used much smaller portals that provide information at a more local level and which, due to their current funding, cannot afford to afford their own journalist more for each area. In this way, every citizen can receive all the most important information. In the Desus Group we therefore stress the importance of the neutral public service STA. In this spirit, we have also requested a longer public debate on the so-called media troika. In his explanation, the applicant explained that the proposals of the STA would give him a legal mandate to report on volunteering and NGOs in both Slovenian and English. As an example, the project Ecology Without Borders and their Action Cleans up Slovenia and the model of voluntary firefighting, but this practice in the English part of the STA is already present. Thus, the interested public could read in English about cleaning operations in Slovenia, as well as about fire incidents and certain interventions by voluntary fire brigades. An additional legal definition would be so unnecessary, as explained by the representative of the Government. In modern times, voluntary and non-governmental organizations have many opportunities to hear their voices in other languages. Most importantly, however, information from the Slovenian public can be learned from the work of voluntary and non-governmental organisations. Therefore, I can only say thank you to all the organizations and volunteers who change the world for the better with their work. To conclude, I should also like to express the criticism of the members of the Desus Group on the behaviour of the proposer. You tabled a novelty that we are considering, which today concludes your marriage, in early July. You are 14 before this law is completed. 10., that is to say six days ago, already filed the same law with exactly the same text. Such a practice is not appropriate at this time of crisis. By duplicating perfectly identical content even in the course of the treatment of the same content, it does not make sense, nor does it make sense. In the Desus Group, we hope that such inappropriate practices will not become a permanent practice in our Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u6	Nice hello to you all! The proposer wants the Slovenian Press Agency to be entrusted with additional work, namely reporting in English in the field of voluntary work and NGOs. Such arrangements are totally unnecessary, as the current law in Article 4 provides for reporting on other content. Undoubtedly, this includes NGOs. The aim of the proposal was to address the situation which has already been regulated. It seems to us that the proposaler deals with such topics at the time of the crown as if there were no other content. We also believe that reporting in English is unnecessary because Slovenian is an official language in the EU and is equivalent to all other languages in Europe. The use of English is another kneeling outside. It is the Slovenian Press Agency and it should be reported in Slovenian. In society we should be proud of Slovenian culture and the rich Slovenian language, which is only part of this. On the other hand, we cannot explain why the darkness with the NGOs is being reopened. A little less than 28 thousand NGOs have been registered in our country. Such a number of these social spheres is significantly too high. Look at the size of our country. These organisations receive a lot of money from the country each year and, after all, make sure that their activities are properly translated into other languages. For this reason, we do not see any need for legal amendments. The biggest problem is with naturalists who are against everything new and against the development of the economy and the economy is essential for the functioning of the country. This month we had a problem with the decisive opposition of NGOs to the promising construction of a hydro power plant on Sava. We know that there is no solution to energy supply in the long run, so we need to find new sources of electricity generation. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we advocate the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Muri River in a similar way as was regulated in neighbouring Austria. This is pure energy derived from renewable sources. Such projects are good for the whole country. Naturalists, with their first participation in various administrative procedures, impede the normal functioning of the economy. After all, they are not naturalists, but persons who apply for these procedures with a view to gaining their own benefit. We know a number of cases where individuals in the media were very loud and played the places of a variety of objects in the space, and then suddenly they disappeared and they were nowhere. After all, editors decide what will be published. We have a very big problem in our country with objective reporting on current developments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mojca Škrinjar will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u8	The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency in the framework of the public service imposes the publication of news in the English language on voluntary work and NGOs. The Slovenian Press Agency Act in Article 4 lays down the activities of the Agency. Thus, the STA carries out a public service of daily creation, preparation, archiving and transmission of news summaries containing key, most essential information on the event, on the events in the Republic of Slovenia and the world in the Slovenian language from the following areas: politics, economy, culture, education, health, chronicle, sport, events from the world, science, volunteer work and NGOs, entertainment and other content. In the second paragraph of the same Article, the Act provides that the STA shall perform the public service of daily production, preparation, archiving and transmission of news summaries containing key, most essential information on the event, on the event in the Republic of Slovenia in English and shall list several areas of which it shall report in English and shall summarise the others with the expression of other content. The drafter, Party Levica, has introduced a legislative procedure to supplement the law, in which he will also explicitly highlight the translation of reports on voluntary work and NGOs. In the Slovenian Democratic Republic, we believe that the existing law already provides for the possibility of translating all the areas reported by the State, so there is no need to supplement the existing law. On the contrary, we believe that there are unnecessary additions and thus increased red tape. In Slovenia, there are 10,000 regulations, laws, regulations and regulations that do not always increase the safety and comfort of citizens and citizens, but sometimes make life difficult because of their lack of transparency. We can see from the coalition agreement that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying to implement its commitment to debarcation, which we support, and in this spirit we believe that it is more necessary to channel power towards solutions and legal bases that create new opportunities for citizens and citizens for a better life. Therefore, we do not support the proposal from the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Lidija Dijak Mirnik will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u10	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment of the law is a good one, for it would extend the area of which the Slovenian Press Agency also reports in English, that is to say everything they would have done with this amendment of the law. That's all. Also abroad, we could learn more about NGOs in Slovenia that work very well. Of course not. They would strengthen the public ministry and give it an even greater weight. However, the aim of this government is not this, nor is it unfortunately the aim of its president to strengthen, but to weaken, not only the Slovenian Press Agency, but also the RTV. The credibility of all the media must be undermined, they must be silenced and their hubcaps put on. It's not really for that. On Twitter, the President of the Government is demonstrating this again every day and showing his attitude towards media freedom, press independence and editorial autonomy. All of this is disturbing for him because he sets up a mirror because he allows criticism and plurality of opinions because he promotes unity. And the only mind is what you want. It's the same as Hungary. Let me remember what happened in Hungary, what the regime did with their press agency there. First, he took it humanely, so that those new set-ups overwhelmed and sifted the contents, left only what was favored by the government, and what was entrenched. Then the news began to offer the house for free, for change. I suppose you are also trying to do this with the Slovenian Press Agency and then take over the remaining media, take control of the information and, of course, their interpretation. However, you want to take control of all systems and subsystems more widely. And we call this way of ruling in history a dictatorship. Let me end by just saying this, in the List of Marjan Šarc, we expect that, at least during the time of the epidemic that you have declared, you will abstain and contain your temptations after the recruitment and adoption of controversial laws, especially those that actually have absolutely nothing to do with the cobbler. So you're going to show people that it's true that the government's priority is to fight the virus, that disease virus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented only by Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! We have before us a report on the fact that the proposal for a new Law on the Slovenian Press Agency has not been adopted on the home working body. Nine votes for, nine against, sorry. The proposed amendment of the law was intended to inform the international public about the work of the NGO sector in Slovenia, about the events of NGOs in Slovenia, about the content they offer and the problems they face in their operations. The operation of NGOs is now reported in Slovenian only. By supplementing the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Act under consideration, the international public would also be informed of the work of voluntary and non-governmental organisations in the English language. Unfortunately, the government did not even think to draw up an opinion on this. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport has considered and supported this proposal of the amendment of the law. However, from the opinion of the Commission, it is possible to understand that the representatives of the Ministry of Culture generally agree with the content of the proposal, but they doubt the relevance of the amendments because in the procedure a bill of amendments on the Slovenian Press Agency is a bill of amendments, which they believe could also include the proposed content. This, of course, is hard to believe when the practice so far shows that the coalition does not accept virtually any proposals by the opposition to government laws. That the Government does not support the bill we have learned from the Committee on Culture. In the opinion of the Government, the existing State Act should allow it to cover all areas of voluntary work in both Slovenian and English. In the absence of the Government's proposal for amendments, we cannot go beyond the question of whether the Government may be afraid of the mirrors set by voluntary and non-governmental organisations and the reflection it shows on undermining democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. Above all, does the Government fear that it is being built by a European democratic majority. Unfortunately, only one coalition of members recognized the importance of informing the international public about the Slovenian contribution to the expansion of volunteering and the functioning of NGOs. Your Honor! During the years of operation, the Slovenian Press Agency has developed into a modern multimedia society which, in addition to the public information service, cares about the information of most national and local media. WHAT has gained a great reputation in its credible work is why we feel that it is right for the Social Democrats to present their work to the international public as much as possible, including with regard to the functioning of voluntary and non-governmental organisations. And that's it. The fear and discomfort of the government before the STA is strengthened, does not give up with overly optimistic that the coalition will perhaps recognise its error when considering the Government's proposal for the STA law and the STA will only allow for further development in the international environment. This is not only the STA, but it is the extremely worrying trend of government behaviour towards the entire media landscape in Slovenia, which demands all our attention and concern regardless of who the opposition is and who is in the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone! The News of the Slovenian Press Agency Act, which we are considering today, contains only one amendment – an indent that has led to so much resistance in some people that it seemed at some point that we were not all talking about the same bill. The proposed amendment sought to ensure that the STA, which is considered an objective source of reporting in our society, also provides content in the field of volunteering and NGOs in the English language. The choice of these news would not be made by a non-governmental and voluntary organisation itself, but would be within the competence of the STA. This aspect of legitimacy, objectivity and thinking ability in the selection and reporting of information in English is crucial for SMC. The second aspect that should be highlighted in the paper under consideration is the international dimension of the operation of voluntary and non-governmental organisations. We cannot look at these international dimensions only through the prism of the number of posts published in the English language on the STA website, but through the user experience of these publications in the sense that they can help exchange good practices and promotions of Slovenian volunteering and NGOs abroad. Something like this in today's and in the middle of European space should no longer be a dilemma, but even less the failure to create bridges and border crossings, not in an area where integration is a strengthening of basic civilisation values. The third aspect we want to highlight is the social attitude towards an area. Today this relationship has become clear – the area of volunteering and NGOs has in the past been deprived in terms of lack of systematic investment in development, promotion and visibility of the positive effects of volunteer work and the work of NGOs on society. However, we have taken one important step forward by adopting the Strategy for the Development of NGOs and Volunteering by 2023. We also have a Council for the Promotion of the Development of Volunteering, Voluntary and Non-Governmental Organisations, which has been in operation for ten years and has served as an exchange of views between ministries, NGOs and voluntary organisations. Finally, we also have the Voluntary Act, which was adopted in 2011, and the Law on NGOs, which was adopted a little later in 2018. We believe, however, that it is time for the STA, which also has the task of providing public service on a permanent, comprehensive and objective basis, to extend its reporting in English also to voluntary work and non-governmental organisations. As has been said many times, the creation of news about the event in Slovenia in English is an important window into the world through which Slovenia is part of an international space. On the basis of these reasons, we supported the proposal of the law on the home labour body in the modern centre Party Group, but unfortunately the bill did not receive sufficient support. Given the equal outcome of the vote, we will still have to talk about this subject in the future, as things do not appear to be so uniform. Above all, we will have to agree on the scope of the public service to be provided by STA in English as well as the importance of volunteering and NGOs in our society. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! On 8 July 2020, we tabled a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency following a reduced procedure. The purpose of the law, or the purpose of the legislative amendment, is to include reporting on volunteering and non-governmental organisation in English as part of the public service provided for by the Slovenian Press Agency. STA is obliged to report on voluntary work and non-governmental organisations, but according to the existing law it is only obliged to report this in the Slovenian language. The new law extends this part of the public service to the English language, thus providing information about the international public as well, which can also help embassies in Slovenia. With this proposed change, autonomous self-initiatives are also internationally appointed as relevant stakeholders in civil society and one of the foundations of our social organisation, which has been active in Slovenia for centuries. And let's remind you, it's firefighters, cultural arts, theatre societies, humanitarian societies and so on. The Slovenian Press Agency provides a public service for the daily creation, transmission and archiving of news on developments in the Republic of Slovenia and the world in the Slovenian language in the fields of politics, economy, culture, education, health, chronicles, sports, events from the world of science, volunteer work and NGOs, entertainment and other content. The STA also provides a public service for the daily creation, preparation, archiving and transmission of news summaries of the events in the Republic of Slovenia in English from the fields of politics, economy, sport, health, culture, education, science, chronicles and other content. In the context of the public service, it also publishes texts of radio news prepared for publication in the radio media and copyrighted photographs of the most important events. Within the framework of the public service, the STA must provide content on the functioning of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities in the Republic of Slovenia, content on the functioning of the Roma ethnic community, content for members of other national and ethnic communities, content for Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, for Slovenians in place and around the world and in the context of the daily English service, content for the foreign public in the Republic of Slovenia. It should also provide for the long-term storage of documented and archival materials resulting from the production of various programme content within the public service, in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the management of archival material. The law explicitly provides that the STA shall, in the framework of the public service, distribute the contents free of charge via its website and that they shall be accessible to all under the same conditions. In short, the STA Act does not now impose the publication of news in the English language on voluntary work and NGOs. In Slovenia, volunteering has a 100-year, multi-century tradition, is extremely widespread, especially in the countryside. Of course, it is true that the international public is also informed of these extremely positive stories, which are also specific to Slovenia in some way, and volunteers deserve it. Unfortunately, however, the current government is fighting a war with NGOs, unaware that the non-governmental sector itself is covering a large part of the needs of citizens and citizens, which the state is simply unable to meet. Therefore, of course, the result on the parental committee was close, 9: 9, and therefore in Levica we do not intend to give up and we will re- table the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. The proposal of the Left considers a proposal amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency, which extends the scope of the public service of the STA in English also in the field of non-governmental organisations. The Slovenian Press Agency shall carry out a public reporting service on important topics. Creates, prepares, archives and transmits summaries of news of the events in the Republic of Slovenia and around the world. The news touches on various areas: policies, economies, culture, education, health, chronicles, sports, international events, science, volunteer work and NGOs, entertainment and other content. Most of these topics are also covered in English. The question raised in this proposal, however, is how wide will the role of the State in this case of STA reporting be determined, as the proposal provides that the translation or writing of news in English is extended to topics not currently covered by the report in English on the events of non-governmental organisations. In our view, reporting on non-governmental organisations in English is not one of the activities to be taken care of by the State through the State through the State. Non-governmental organisations wishing to have their message in English can take care of it themselves and thus present themselves to the international public. The question is also raised, the news of which NGOs will be formed in English and which are not, since according to the latest CNVOS, which is the umbrella network of Slovenian NGOs, we had 27 000 NGOs registered on 30 September 2020. Some non-governmental organisations have already received additional means of translation, site design and reporting in English. With the support of this proposal, the same activities would be financed twice from the State budget. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we therefore opposed the proposal of the Left because we believe that it is more appropriate, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, that this part of reporting is taken care of by NGOs themselves. They also receive funds from the budget that they can allocate by, for example, regulating their own English versions of websites and thus informing the international public of their activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of eight Members, first signed by Nataša Sukić. At its 21st session, on 6 October 2020, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the working body as a parent. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. The position will be presented by Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the framework of the Act on Change and Supplements to the Mining Act under consideration today, we are discussing the method of obtaining natural gas called hydraulic fracturing or fracturing. Fracking is a process in which a mixture of water, chemicals and sand is injected into an underground stone layer. This causes these layers to break, releasing on the surface the natural gas trapped in the rock. Proposers proposing a permanent ban on the use of this method in Slovenia state its markedly negative environmental impacts. The introduction of the novel would also put an end to all the authorisation procedures currently under way, so they would also intervene in and applications for licences and mining rights already issued. In the Desus Group, we find that the opinions of acquaintances about fracking are often quite the opposite, and as layans, we find it difficult to judge what effect actually has on the environment. The theme is currently most relevant to the Petišovsko Polje. The Constitutional Court has already ruled that the British Corporation, which intends to implement the method mentioned there, must carry out a preliminary environmental impact assessment and obtain an environmental permit. The British, who had already obtained an environmental permit years ago to set up a natural gas treatment plant, set up procedures to initiate an arbitral action against Slovenia for breach of a bilateral agreement. The project itself has already been invested in enormous resources. As the procedure for the examination of the law on the home labour body has been completed, we are not currently defining ourselves by vote. The Infrastructural Committee adopted a majority of clarifications from the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is already preparing a comprehensive amendment to the Mining Act. The reasons for preparing the novel are to remedy the shortcomings of the current law regarding the legal situation of holders of existing mining rights for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and to improve the system regime for more efficient management of mineral raw materials. At the time of consideration of this proposal, the Ministry's representatives promised a thorough examination of the issue and its inclusion in the system law in preparation. In the Desus Group, we understand that the inhabitants of this area want to live in a healthy environment. The potential development of Prekmurje is recognised in the direction of agriculture and tourism. As we know that the method of hydraulic fracturing in some countries is already prohibited and investors argue that the possible negative impact on the environment depends on the geological composition of the soil, at this point we also call on the competent ministry to thoroughly examine the problem and to adopt the system law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you, President. Your Honor! On the hot topic of fracking or after the Slovenian hydraulic crushing, the stimulation of the roses was written several articles with significant titles. Among other things, I quote: “The British on the island banned fracking, and in Slovenia they would draw on premurk gas.” It is clear that Slovenians are stupid and ignorant, since the gas would be used together by Geoenergo and the British Ascent Resources plc, with at least 90% of the total income of the British corporation. Production is expected to cover up to 10% of Slovenia's natural gas consumption. We must not leave our country in the clutches of multinationals we cannot defend against. The main problem is why the permit was issued in the first place. In Slovenia, oil and natural gas are mined in Petišovci for the Pomur region, which is ecologically sensitive. A complaint was also lodged with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development as a result of the disputed faction. The harmful impact also extends to Natura 2000 and Biosphero Mura. In the Slovenian National Party we are absolutely against destroying our environment, nature, space and the best agricultural land at that end of Slovenia. It is necessary to take a decisive step towards decommissioning in order to prevent climate damage. Other countries are becoming aware, so they are increasingly being taken to ban or limit this method of production of hydrocarbons, precisely because of preventive action to protect both the environment and human health and property. Research into the consequences of fracking suggests earthquakes where there were no earthquakes, groundwater pollution, atmospheric leakage, methane coming out of water taps. We must be aware that food is a strategic issue and less than we will have because of the degraded area, it will be more expensive. We must not allow Pomurje to join Anhovem, Velenj, Vrhnika, Celje and other congregations. Slovenia is not a self-sufficient country, so it is important that at least something is produced on our clean land. The British company has been deceiving its investors and the population in this area more than apparently. Therefore, it is necessary to give our citizens and citizens a healthy living environment, security and the right to drinking water first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Kepa will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, President. Good-bye to your colleagues! In the proposal, the Group of Members advocates a ban on the production of hydrocarbons by means of a so-called cracking method, by preventing the acquisition of mining rights for hydrocarbons. This proposal for a law on these amendments and additions has been examined and the Government considers that the proposal is not supported at this stage. The Ministry of Infrastructure has been preparing the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act for some time now and will also be prepared for public consultation, where new proposals will be added to improve the proposed law. The law is not good to change because of just one problem, but a comprehensive and complex approach must be taken. It is important to be careful that we do no harm to certain rights already acquired by rapid partial intervention and thus bring the matter into a difficult situation. The essential reasons for addressing some of the shortcomings of the current law, the proportionality of the legal situation of holders of existing mining rights by exploiting mineral raw materials and improving the arrangements for more efficient management of mineral raw materials. Our party will not support this proposal and we will wait for a comprehensive mining law prepared by the Government and should be ready shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Jerca Korče will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! We're not even going to talk about fracking in this room today. Why? The reason for this is that the coalition machine, the ban on fracking, has already hit the board itself. The main argument was that there was a need for systemic regulation. What systemicity requires only one simple arrangement, and this is a ban on fracking in our beautiful green Slovenia. We really don't understand this in the List of Marjan Šarc. You know, nature conservation is not a matter of system regulation. But it is certainly a matter of a system of values. Let's just see how things are. So the British government prohibits or freezes the execution of fracking in their country. Then a private firm from Britain will find, logically, a location where they could do it. And he finds her in our territory. As if we did not somehow live in the same galaxy in Slovenia, on the other hand there is great effort to develop tourism right where fracking is supposed to take place. And this tourism, which is supposed to be based on green, was sustainable, that is, green and sustainable. At the same time, it is permitted to do so, or in law, something that has environmental and human consequences. Moreover, at the same time as allowing the development of activities such as fracking, the possibility of creating a new degraded area in Slovenia is allowed. Moreover, at the same time as allowing for new degradation on the other hand, discussions and various measures are under way to address the consequences in destroyed areas resulting from past irresponsible behaviour and, of course, less knowledge of specific environmental interventions. In Slovenia we have many painful stories, missed policy decisions in the past. And all these decisions are some kind of rakrana of our present. Clearly, we have not learned enough from stories such as Anhovo, Vrhnika, and TEŠ 6. Today we have more knowledge, we have more knowledge, we have insight into research into the consequences of fracking in other countries. And very important, today we know what a precautionary principle is, and in this case we consider it to be a good idea to use it. Your Honor! We really don't see any need for fracking to become part of our beautiful Prekmurje. And yes, next time, a well-respected coalition, translates the meaning of green development, sustainability and praises for preserving our nature, remember how easily you have rejected a proposal on the committee that would only prohibit a foreign company from destroying our land for its own profit and endangering our water. It's so simple. In this case, the opposition will certainly persist. I believe the story of the fight to ban fracking is not over. We must be aware that when we have knowledge that something can cause negative consequences, politics cannot allow us to allow it in our area. At the same time, yes, you're talking about systemicity, you're talking about how the public debate is going to take place. For a small matter such as banning fracking in one marriage, I think that if someone does, the existing coalition can't talk about systemicity. In all the non-systemic interventions carried out through the CAP for this epidemic, for various economic affairs, this excuse, when the government prepares matters, is really a little funny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u28	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State, citizens and citizens! Of course, when we talk about fracking, whether you want to admit it or not, honourable Members, we talk about the position of Prekmurje in Slovenia, how you who are not Prekmurci see us in Prekmurje. And of course, with our bitter knowledge from the past that, 101 years ago, when Prekmurje was able to join Slovenia, there was no assistance from Ljubljana. It was only the awareness of us or our ancestors who lived in this area, not only in Prekmurje, even in Prlecia, that we needed to talk to the Americans and many others, but Ljubljana did not help us then. And 101 years from now, ladies and gentlemen, we are at exactly the same point. Fracking is threatening us in Prekmurje. Fracking is a potentially dirty technology. Because of the precautionary principle and also because of the evidence it was banned in France, Ireland, Germany and even Great Britain, from which it comes an economic company that wants to operate in Prekmurje. You're nothing. In Prekmurje, which sees its future in tourism, in a sonar agriculture that has Natura 2000, Biosphere. Do not allow this Prekmur to be safe from dirty technologies. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already taken great steps in the National Assembly. Last but not least, I think that in April 2011, when they died a lot in Slovenia because of the bee multinationals, you gave me full support in the National Assembly, so that even with this support without difficulty I could ban dangerous bee substances as the first in Europe. And a few months later, we were followed by the French and then by other European countries. But why am I talking about this, respected and respected? Two reasons are important. With a bold step, it was possible that Slovenians and Slovenians with Slovenia, as a country, continued the path that led to the implementation of the World Bee Day initiative, Slovenian initiatives. But there's something else that matters. When we banned certain dangerous substances at that time, what did the producers’ economic interests say? They're not dangerous. They're rapidly decomposing. None of this was true. So when economic interests speak, we need to be careful of our decision makers. Therefore, there is a so-called precautionary principle. Precautionary principle in hydraulic fracturing or fracturing is necessary because fracking does not only cause local environmental hazards, but through the possibility of groundwater contamination it can pose a significant threat to a wider area. And finally, it's fossil fuels. We want to become a carbon-free society. That's exactly the opposite of what this technology is saying. Of course, honourable Members, honourable Members, the argument, we will draw up systemic legislation somewhere, is an argument that is misused in politics. That's how you talk too often when you don't want to do anything. However, even on my initiative, we have been Members and Members of the opposition, all of whom, once again, signed the bill and put it back on the table. Before you, honourable Members and Members of the Coalition, decide to press the no button, please at least the following before you press this button, visit us in Prekmurje and talk to the people we live there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Gregor Perič will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! Thank you for your word. With the proposed amendments to the Mining Act, Levica proposes a ban on fracking. Fracking, or hydraulic fracturing, until recently was a completely unknown concept for our citizens. More attention was given to fracking at a time when former Minister of the Environment, Mr Jure Leben, announced to the public that by the British company Ascent Resources plc, which was planning to carry out hydraulic fracturing, pressure and threats in the Petišov field. As things went on in the following way, we can read, but we need to do a little more to find this information. The Mining Act considers energy raw materials to be of strategic importance. These include hydrocarbons and their habitats in northeast Slovenia, and this is also clearly recorded in the State Mining Strategy adopted by the government of Marjana Sarca in October 2018. So it is worth a little reminiscing or refreshing our memory. And let us refresh our memory of the fact that the gas in Petišovci has been pumping for more than 7 decades. During this period several hydraulic fractures were performed in the wells, while hydraulic stimulation of the smaller volume is regularly carried out in our immediate vicinity, Hungary and Croatia. In spite of this, fracking in Slovenia received a negative mark, since it is repeatedly compared to the faction in the United States, which has significantly different characteristics. The alleged negative impacts on the environment are also the main reason why our country has a growing tendency to ban this technique of oil and gas production. It is clear, however, that we are dealing with the environmental issue and not so much with the issue of the conditions for the exploration, exploration and exploitation of mineral raw materials, as set out in the Mining Act. And the proponents, colleagues in Levica, know this well, because so far they have addressed all the issues relating to fracking to the Ministry of the Environment and not to the Ministry of Infrastructure and have also received a clear answer that the regulation of this issue has a place in the Environmental Protection Act. In the SMC, we also point out that the enforcement of the cracking ban in this way can also have a decisive impact on the outcome of the action against Slovenia announced by Ascent Resources plc. With such an accounting with a foreign investor on the public scene, we also give a very clear message to other foreign investors: Don't go to Slovenia because we don't need everything. We believe that, with regard to oil and gas extraction through fracking, serious consideration should also be given to whether the assets of the demographic fund can be fertilised with the available natural resources and, consequently, to provide additional resources for decent pensions, to co-finance policies for the care of older people and for family policies. It is interesting, however, that some of the most vocal opponents of fracking do not mention the precautionary principle in the case of channel C0 above the Ljubljana aquifer. Some do not object to this project at all. We support a cracking ban in the SMC. However, the proposed law raises more questions than answers. That is why we cannot support this law. It is clear that we will continue to deal with fracking and its ban, as the Left has recast the Mining Act and not the Environmental Protection Act. Regardless of the dilemmas that arise in this regard, the proposals for laws are identical. This only proves that it is a pyar manoeuvre of a proposaler who is obviously unable to understand that environmental issues are being addressed in another law. Perhaps, however, by the proposaler, we can expect the next time the cracking ban will want to be regulated by the Health and Health Insurance Act, as fracking should also have an impact on human health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u32	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Your Honor! The Left proposes a legal ban on fracking. The former Minister of the Environment and Space of Jura Leben, who was a member of the Modern Centre Party, was once intimidated by his disagreement with fracking. It was supposed to be right on the side of this corporation. Today, the same party, although it says it opposes fracking, practically supports fracking. The changes are interesting. The use of natural gas by fracking has proved to be devastating to the environment and health of the local population in many countries and 16 European Union countries have already banned or imposed a cracking memorandum. To include Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Spain, Slovakia and Sweden. In Slovenia, the UK's Ascent Resources plc company, in conjunction with the Slovenian company Geoenergo, wants to implement fracking in Petišovci. The Ministry of the Environment and Space had previously instructed them to carry out an environmental impact assessment. They refused to do so, but the decision of the Ministry of Environment and Space was confirmed by the Administrative Court. Therefore, Ascent Resources now threatens to sue Slovenia before an unnamed international tribunal, the court, and seeks the basis for this in the Energy Charter Treaty. We are not the first country to be the victim of transnational corporations' predatory appetites. On the basis of this Charter, they have already sued sovereign states for their environmental rules and, unfortunately, have received this action. Therefore, it would be wise, at least, to consider the possibility of withdrawing from this Treaty, as Italy and Russia have done. After losing the Administrative Court's action, Ascent Resources welcomed the performance by the government of Ivan Janez Janša, who apparently has greater confidence that the project will at least accept the necessary permits. And the government and coalition's response to the proposed amendment to the Mining Act, which we proposed in Levica, somehow confirms Ascent's trust. The government and the ruling coalition of our marriage do not support it. In its opinion, the Government stated that it is not only a rational law to amend because of one problem, but a comprehensive approach must be taken to the problem and that we will examine the proposal of Members in detail and include it in the preparation of the amendment to the Mining Act. I think the most important thing in this is that the government will only be studying our proposal, and we have been dealing with the problem for a while. Of course, we should do this before she even wrote her opinion. And a typical example of communication when you want to please residents and residents, voters who do not want a foreign corporation to destroy their health and the environment, and, on the other hand, you are already kneeling before the interests of foreign capital in Petišovci, if there is a cracking, to earn 90% of the profits, but Ascent Resource does not want to carry out an analysis of the environmental impact assessment if it is not a new method that they would not already use, and it is not a fragmentation of the stone, which is misleading to the public and what is a common lie. Research into the consequences of hydraulic fracturing speaks of the possibility of earthquake suns during hydraulic fracturing itself or later when rocks are seated. They're talking about the risk of groundwater pollution. Research talks about gas leakage into the atmosphere, talks about the increased health problems of the local population and studies talk about the increased traffic burden of the environment. And the situation in Petišovci is quite comparable to the situation in the Groningen gas field in the Netherlands, where fracking has caused frequent and stronger earthquakes that have left serious consequences on the surrounding buildings. And the cracking is carried out at great depths in the Petišovsko Field, where on two wells there has already been an experimental cracking at a depth of 3 thousand 500 meters. If the consequences of fracturing at these depths also result in the leakage of smaller quantities of hydrocarbons or injected chemicals or other toxic substances into the soil and groundwater, any implementation of remedial or mitigating measures is so virtually impossible. What this would mean for the health and property of people and what for a natural protected area, this is for the Biosphere Region of Mura near the Petišovsko Field, which was declared by Unesco in 2018, we can only imagine. He also told Fracking “no” recently about the Municipality Council of Lendava. When it comes to protecting the health of the local population, protecting the Mura River Biosphere Area and protecting the national interest from blackmailing a foreign corporation that is only interested in profit and which in its country of Great Britain is unable to carry out cracking because it is prohibited there, we will not give up in Levica. That is why we have re- tabled the amendment to the Mining Act, which prohibits the implementation of fracking in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good day to you all! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act proposes a ban on the production of hydrocarbons by means of a method of so-called fracturing in order to prevent the authorisation of exploration and mining rights for the use of hydrocarbons by injecting water or water with the addition of chemical impurities. It is a process of cracking rocks by injecting water and chemicals under high pressure from the well, but it can have harmful effects on the environment and human health. The proposed amendments to the law also state that some European countries have identified the harmful effects of fracking and have therefore banned or partially banned this type of fossil fuel generation. The proposed amendment would thus prohibit gas production in Petišovci in Prekmurje, where they have been producing gas by hydraulically breaking or injecting water since 1956. The aim of the law is therefore to ensure a healthy and clean living environment, preserve nature and implement the Paris Climate Agreement on the conservation of global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the issue of hydraulic cracking of rocks and consequently the negative impact on the environment and health of people should be solved by the profession not by politics. Thus, in the case of gas drawback in Petišovci, we fully agree with the opinion of the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia that an environmental impact assessment must be carried out before authorisation is granted. Resolution of the European Parliament of 21. 11. 2012 on the environmental impacts of gas and oil from shale shale on the environment confirms that this is an expert issue where all environmental, public health and climate change impacts need to be checked. Similarly, it advocates the European Commission Recommendation of 22 January 2014 on minimum principles for the exploration and exploitation of shale gas in which hydraulic fracturing is used and recommends that Member States carry out strategic environmental impact assessments. We were also taught from Geoenergo, which has a concession to pump oil and gas, that because of the geological structure in Prekmurje they need extremely little stimulation with small amounts of water, which has minimal environmental impact. In Novi Slovenija we therefore agree with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for amendments alone is not suitable for further consideration. We have received assurances from the Ministry of Infrastructure that it is already preparing a comprehensive revision of the Mining Act, as it is necessary to address the shortcomings of the applicable law regarding the legal situation of holders of existing mining rights for the exploitation of minimum raw materials and to improve the system regime for more efficient management. Since the amendment of the law with comprehensive solutions is expected to be ready by the end of the year, in New Slovenia we cannot give the bill a green light for further consideration at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u36	Dear Secretary of State, President of the National Assembly, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! Fracking or in other words hydraulic fracturing is a method of producing hydrocarbons by breaking the rocks in which they are found. It's an environmentally harmful method. The main objective of the bill, which unfortunately did not receive sufficient support for further consideration at the working body's home meeting, is to prohibit fracking. This would ensure a healthy and clean living environment for the local population. This is an extremely invasive method of natural gas production, as the Netherlands case has recently shown. There, the fracturing method has caused more and more frequent and more severe earthquakes that have affected the surrounding buildings. Hydraulic crushing endangers groundwater and thus drinking water, carbohydrate leakage can also cause air pollution. In view of the above, the harmful effects are not negligible. The proposal also follows the commitments of the Paris Climate Agreement regarding the abandonment of the production and use of fossil fuels. By prohibiting hydraulic fragmentation, people in the area of Petišovec would also be granted a constitutional right to a healthy living environment. Many countries have already identified the adverse effects on the environment and health of the population resulting from fracking and have therefore banned the method by law, including Austria, Germany, Croatia, Ireland, France and Bulgaria. In Slovenia the conditions for such a method of production of natural gas are given only in the town of Petišovci. The village lies in the Biosphere area of Mure and such environmental interventions could have serious consequences for habitats in this nature conservation area. An exception to cracking in our territory is seeking to obtain a British corporation. Arso, however, decided, and the Administrative Court confirmed that an environmental impact assessment and environmental consensus should be carried out first in order to draw on the gas by means of hydraulic fracturing. Regrettably, as a result of such a finding from the above-mentioned corporation, Slovenia was threatened by an action, even initiating procedures for the initiation of arbitration in early October. This is a kind of absurdity, as the country legally implements the rules on environmental protection and human health. In normal circumstances, in normal circumstances, the corporate's unwillingness to cooperate after carrying out the environmental impact assessment procedure could be understood even as its wish to withdraw from the procedure. And that is why we have called on the Government to avoid the action that Arso finally completes the environmental impact assessment process and in this process finds out what quietly speaks out that this environmental intervention is unacceptable and thus concludes it. In this way, the change in law would not have been retroactive. Notwithstanding this, the Legislative and Legal Service has recognised the meaning and eligibility of retroactive application, as this law ensures public interest in a healthy environment. In the SAB Group, we believe that Slovenia should also follow the practice of countries that have already recognised the issue of fracking and have consequently been banned by law. We therefore regret the fact that the law has not received sufficient support for further consideration. The prohibition of fracking would protect human health, their property and the environment and the unspoiled nature. The government and the coalition did not listen to this issue and insisted on a complete overhaul of the law. In the meantime, in the AB Party, we believe that this solution should be considered as a priority and prohibited by the cracking method. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed law on the use of energy within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Blaž Kosorok, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u38	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, a lovely greeting! Allow me to briefly present or explain the Energy Efficiency Act. The government has prepared a proposal for a new Energy Efficiency Act. The law itself regulates the efficient use of energy, in this context also various measures that promote energy efficiency in all sectors and in different stakeholders. Energy efficiency is seen as one of the most cost-effective ways to support the transition to a low-carbon society and to create jobs and investment opportunities. The Energy Efficiency Directive has created a 20% energy efficiency target by 2030. This objective is now replaced with a more ambitious objective of achieving at least 32.5% energy efficiency gains by 2030 at European Union level. With the National Energy and Climate Plan, the Republic of Slovenia has set itself the goal of improving energy efficiency by at least 35% according to the 2007 baseline scenario by 2030. The Energy Act fully regulates the fields of energy and transposes into Slovenia a wide range of legislation in the field of energy law in the European Union. Common amendments to European legislation are the main reason for the continuous amendment and complementarity of the EC-1. In addition, European energy legislation is becoming increasingly detailed and extensive, increasing the scope of the content regulated by EZ-1. Due to the scope of the law itself, the matter regulated by the law is becoming increasingly opaque, and it is increasingly difficult to ensure timely transposition of directives into the Slovenian legal order. For this reason, it has been demonstrated that the legal regulation of energy now covered by one law is divided into several separate laws following the structure of legal regulation of these contents in secondary European Union legislation. This is also followed by a proposal for a law that excludes energy efficiency from the EZ-1 and regulates it independently. Some provisions of the bill are identical to those currently in force in the EN-1 energy law and some have been amended or added with a view to appropriate transposition of European energy efficiency legislation into the Slovenian proper order. On the basis of a specific law for this area, it is estimated that it will be possible to better carry out the regulatory and professional tasks of public administration in this area and to speed up transposition and harmonisation of national legislation with European legislation every time. In the field of energy efficiency, new measures bring two directives, which form part of the EU legislative package and which are being transposed in the Energy Efficiency Act, inter alia, by amending the Energy Efficiency Directive of buildings and the Energy Efficiency Directive. The deadline for transposition of these two Directives has expired, one was 10 March this year and the other was 25 June this year. However, the essential content and changes resulting from the transposition of European legislation under the provisions of the current applicable Energy Act are as follows. Additional requirements for the long-term reconstruction strategy of buildings in line with the requirements of the Directive. The draft law lays down general obligations in the area of energy consumption measurement and cost accounting for spent energy and provides for a new provision for the separate measurement of natural gas and the measurement of energy consumption for heating, cooling and sanitary hot water. In order to facilitate the transition for the use of electric vehicles, the installation of specific filling points for electric vehicles in parking spaces is required within the energy efficiency framework. The law will therefore provide for a new obligation to install filling stations and infrastructure lines in the case of construction and renovation and existing residential and non-residential buildings, as well as for resting places outside the public road and for self-sustaining parking spaces for motor vehicles. In the case of energy savings in final customers, a new limit of 100 megawatt hours is set for suppliers of hard speeches. The public sector energy management system is being upgraded by introducing an obligation to appoint so-called energy operators to take care of the implementation of building energy management measures at the public sector level. For technical building systems in buildings, a requirement is introduced to document the performance of the system on changes affecting energy efficiency. The bill also introduces automation and control systems, the operation of technical building systems in multi-housing buildings and a cost-effective alternative to physical checks. In addition to other minor developments mentioned above, the adoption of the Energy Efficiency Act is, of course, crucial to the implementation of energy efficiency measures and the achievement of the Republic of Slovenia's stated objectives in this area. On the basis of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose that a third section of the draft law be held at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mateja Udovč.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u40	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 21st session. Ten. 2020 as a parent labour body was considered by the Government's proposal for a law on the efficient use of energy submitted to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelič, presented the objectives, principles and main solutions to the draft law. He explained that the draft law regulates the efficient use of energy and measures that promote energy efficiency in different stakeholders. He drew attention to the sense of self-regulation of the area covered by the proposal for a law, mainly because of the scope of the Energy Act and its frequency of amendment. The Secretary of State also presented significant changes due to the transposition of European legislation and the objectives of increasing energy efficiency at European level and the objectives set by the Republic of Slovenia in this regard. Ms Marolt, representative of the Law and Law Service, explained that the Law and Law Service, in its written opinion, had highlighted the need for clarity and clarity in the text of the bill, the spatial aspect of privacy and respect for the prohibition of the retroactive application of legal acts, and had also made some comments of a nominal technical nature. It stressed that the amendments tabled to the comments followed largely. The opinion on the bill was also presented by a representative of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, who explained that the Commission supports the bill. He highlighted only some concerns about possible additional burdens on local communities. In the debate, members and members supported the solutions resulting from the proposal for a law and wanted assurances that there would be no additional financial burden on local communities. They were also interested in the definition of the Ministry of Infrastructure to the concerns of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia regarding the additional obligations imposed on companies by the proposal for a law. It was pointed out that single investments in energy efficiency could have lasting effects. The representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure provided additional clarifications on the concerns raised in the debate. He explained that the only novelty is the appointment of the responsible person, which does not represent costs for local communities. With regard to the concerns of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, however, he stressed that an amendment to the transitional provision could be tabled for further consideration of the bill. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted several amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Duša Šiško will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you, Madam President. The amendment amends or complements as many as 97 articles. The material of the Energy Law is very complex and imprecise, so it changes and adapts all the time. Our country has set itself a very ambitious goal of improving energy efficiency by at least 35% by 2030. I wonder if we can really expect that. We are all responsible for improving energy efficiency and consequently reducing energy poverty, and it is therefore important to raise awareness and educate all stakeholders. It seems to us that the real objective of the Republic of Slovenia is to reduce the use of final energy in buildings by 20%, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions of buildings by at least 70%. In Posavje or Krka, I observe that buildings are being largely renovated and repaired, so there are only a few multi-inhabited buildings or blocks that are still waiting for the facade, so that we do not talk about the lower heating costs; this should be done in concrete terms. The new measures also aim to promote the creation of smart buildings that automatically or automatically adapt to environmental change. There is also an obligation to automate and control buildings where electricity production facilities are added to technical building systems. Here is a talk about solar power plants where building owners will have to document any changes in technical buildings so that potential new owners will have an insight into the actual situation. As we all see together, there are more electric cars on our roads, and as a result, chargers are running out in certain places. It also happens many times that you drive somewhere and you have to wait too long for the car to load up and take you if there is only one charger available, of course.We support the installation of filling sites and the installation of infrastructure to install electrical cable lines. With electric cars, anyone can help to move the company to cleaner energy sources, while also saving on long-distance transport costs or even creating passive income. The problem we see in the Slovenian National Party is where with all the waste batteries after their warranty period and when they will have to be replaced. Some fear for the 100 percent share of electric cars on the market and the road, do not realize that our electricity network simply cannot do this. More environmentally friendly devices, technologies, equipment, products and services and activities must be given greater benefits from the less environmentally friendly. With regard to environmental requirements on products on the market in use, it is of the utmost importance that clear and understandable information is provided for end-users in the Slovenian language and not in any Chinese which no one understands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Franc Rosec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Energy Lawmakers estimate that the Energy Law is becoming increasingly extensive and therefore imprecise. It is increasingly difficult to ensure the timely transposition of directives into the Slovenian legal order, which is also reflected in the growing energy legislation of the European Union in the field of energy law, which aims to ensure and encourage energy use reduction, taking into account the principles of sustainable development and fundamental principles of energy policy. In particular, the objectives of the proposal are to reduce energy use in buildings by 20% by 2030 compared to 2005 and to ensure a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in buildings by at least 70% by 2030 compared to 2005; the next objective, efficient energy use to improve energy efficiency by at least 35% by 2030, which means that by systematically implementing policies and measures adopted, it is necessary to ensure that final energy consumption in 2030 does not exceed 54.9 terawatt hours; to increase energy efficiency by amending the Directive, Directive 218/202EU, this objective is replaced by an ambitious objective to achieve at least 32.5% energy efficiency gains at European Union level by 2030; further, energy security, efficient energy conversion, the transition to a climate neutral society through the use of low-carbon energy technologies, the provision of energy services, the improvement of energy efficiency of all stakeholders, especially the public sector, the provision of energy efficiency, the protection of consumers as final energy outsources. According to the proposal for a law on the efficient use of energy, Directives of the European Union on energy efficiency, energy efficiency of buildings are transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, the establishment of a framework for certain requirements for environmentally sound design of energy-related products, the promotion of energy consumption from renewable sources, the common regulation of the internal market in electricity and natural gas. The main solution to energy efficiency measures is to improve the parameters or indicators of supply and energy use in the country. These indicators are to reduce energy consumption, increase quantity and share of renewable energy sources, increase energy security, reduce driving dependence on energy supply and other energy reasons set out in the strategic documents and action plans. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you, President. Dear fellows! We have recently received on our bench a proposal for a law on the efficient use of energy that came from under the government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the presentation text of the legislative proposal, the applicants stated that one of the reasons why they proposed the law is, inter alia, the scope and opacity of the current Energy Act, which regulates the entire field of energy. According to them, it is increasingly difficult to ensure timely transposition of directives of the European Union and the legal matter becomes opaque and incomprehensible, so they propose to exclude energy efficiency from the Energy Act and to regulate it in a separate law. The solutions brought by law and towards reducing energy poverty and helping to reduce carbon footprint and decarbonise society by 2050 are welcome in the Group of Social Democrats, but during the consideration of the proposal we have had quite a few concerns, as well as the comments that we have raised on the working body and asked the representatives of the Ministry for clarifications and answers. The proposal received support from the Commission of the State Council and also from the Energy Agency. As it is said, we have recognized certain solutions in the law as good and necessary, but after talking to the public and the professions, we find that the bill was written with good intentions and objectives, but a lot of stakeholders, who are key in this area, have failed in the process of drafting the law. We welcome the intention of the applicants to make the legal matter more transparent and understandable, but we believe that, in such a decision, it would be necessary to exclude a certain part of the legal matter from the current Energy Act and the regulations as a separate law, and in particular by including the widest range of stakeholders, since only these consequences and the measures the law brings will be the most sensitive. The Social Democrats' Group welcomes the proposal for an effective use of energy, but on the basis of the comments received and its general public and its profession, it remains reserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Gregor Perič will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u48	Your Honor, thank you for your word. When we talk about sustainable management of natural resources, energy efficiency plays an important role in European energy policy. Its objective is to reduce energy consumption between 30% and 40% by 2050, depending on 2007. Energy efficiency gains are also closely linked to energy security, regional development, economic competitiveness, new jobs and, finally, smaller electricity bills. We do not have energy in unlimited quantities, although we sometimes seem to be talking here, as if we had it, so taking appropriate measures is the first prerequisite for efficient use of energy. In Slovenia, measures and mechanisms to promote energy efficiency are laid down in an energy law that has been implementing a variety of incentive programmes for many years, including financial incentives. The energy law does not only regulate energy efficiency, but also covers electricity, natural gas, heat, renewable energy, energy infrastructure and other areas. It is precisely because of the scope of the Energy Act, which has more than 500 articles, and also because of the frequent change in European energy regulations at European Union level, that it is proposed to gradually regulate individual energy fields in separate laws. This is why we are now facing a new Energy Efficiency Act, which regulates the general measures to promote energy efficiency, measures to increase energy efficiency, requirements for energy efficiency for products and to ensure the energy efficiency of buildings. In the SMC, we will unanimously support the bill. We believe that measures to increase energy efficiency are appropriate and will be able to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the European energy policy. We are also pleased that, on our initiative, an amendment has been drafted and also adopted, which includes a requirement that, in the event of construction or major renovation of parking and rest facilities, an adequate number of electric vehicle chargers should also be provided. We think it's time to take a step forward and create the conditions for our traffic to be green. This is also crucial for achieving the objectives set, and a prerequisite for this is to ensure a sufficient number of chargers. As we say, in the SMC we will support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u50	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. And hello to all of you! I really just wish you health and don't get infected with this coronary virus, mostly, take care of yourself and others. Now let's take a stand. The bloody objective of the bill we are considering today is to increase energy efficiency in all sectors of society in order to ensure that energy and climate targets are met for 2030 and 2050. It is therefore one of the laws that we will have to adopt to avoid as humanity the most black scenarios that are written for us because of the climate crisis. The climate crisis and its most visible consequences, such as global warming, rising sea levels, melting glaciers, increased risk of extreme weather events and a negative impact on biodiversity, are the fact that science has expressed beyond reasonable doubt. It is also undoubtedly demonstrated that man’s activity, the release of greenhouse gases and the change in soil use are far from the greatest cause of current climate change. The climate crisis poses a serious threat to the well-being of mankind and the earth and threatens the existence of human society as we know it. The immediate climate crisis will have the greatest impact on the parts of humanity that are already most threatened and in an uneven position. The fight against climate change, this is the elimination of their causes and adaptation, which is one of the most important priorities for Levica, both socially and politically. The climate crisis is not a crisis on its own. In the system of global capitalism, this is also a crisis of capitalism, a system whose sole aim and purpose is to maximize profits achieved by exploiting people and natural resources. Capitalism is an exponential growth system and capitalists can survive it only by expanding the size of their capital through each cycle. This expansion, however, requires sustained material investment and an increase in production. Capitalism cannot accept the fact that we are living in and on a limited planet and with limited portability because of the internal need for capital expansion. Acceptance of this fact would mean an end to capitalism. The purpose of the law we adopt is to increase energy efficiency and thus reduce energy use. But that alone will not be enough if we do not reduce electricity products at the same time. If countries do not intervene strongly at the level of energy production, all measures at the level of consumption will be eliminated, and the only result of energy efficiency measures will be energy surpluses on the market and, as a result, a fall in energy price that will stimulate new capital investments, leading to a new cycle of growth on the side of production. In order to mitigate the climate crisis, it is therefore not only necessary to abandon fossil energy sources, to move to renewable energy sources and to achieve the highest possible level of energy efficiency, but changes must cut to the very foundations of the socio-economic system of material goods production. It is a matter of re-establishing priorities as a society, and on the basis of this and in accordance with the constraints imposed on us by the Paris Climate Agreement, we will determine how we will use very limited natural resources further. In Levi, we will support the Energy Efficiency Bill. We note, however, that only measures on the energy consumption side will not be sufficient and that measures on the production side and on the distribution and exchange side must be taken as soon as possible. The transition to a carbon-free society must be fair and all measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions must also be accompanied by measures to eliminate energy poverty. This is already taken into account in the proposal for a law where an alternative measure to achieve energy savings in final customers implemented by the Eco-Fund programmes is complemented by the requirement to take into account social objectives related to the alleviation of energy poverty in the implementation of the work of these programmes. Thank you. Again, take care of yourself and others.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. The energy sector, including energy efficiency, energy policy, the electricity market, the natural gas market, heat supply, the functioning of the Energy Agency, energy infrastructure and inspection, is currently covered by the Energy Act, which is extensive and difficult to follow in various European directives and regulations. The blood law is thus becoming increasingly opaque and it is increasingly difficult to ensure the timely transposition of European directives into the Slovenian legal order. It is therefore necessary that the legal regime of energy, now covered by one law, be divided into several separate laws. This is followed by the proposal for an Energy Efficiency Act, which excludes energy efficiency from the Energy Act and regulates it independently. This brings a more transparent structure of legislation and allows for faster annual coordination of national legislation with European rules. The new law already includes the transposition of the Directive of the European Union on the energy efficiency of buildings and the Energy Efficiency Directive, as both deadlines have expired. In New Slovenia, we are pleased to see that some provisions in the new law are clearer and upgraded compared to previous regulation and include more ambitious targets for achieving energy efficiency at the level of the European Union. The primary objectives are to decarbonise the economy and are extended from 2020 to 2030. In the new law, there are also clearer provisions on measuring energy consumption and accounting information, especially for measuring natural gas consumption, heating consumption, cooling and sanitation. The energy efficiency Directive obligations relating to the sharing of costs in multi-housing buildings by means of dividers and remote readings are also being complemented. The law also partially regulates filling points for electrical vehicles for buildings, while the remaining questions relating to electrical chargers will be settled in the second law. The European Directive also entails an obligation to increase annual energy savings from 0.75% to 0.8%, as defined in Article 10 of this Act. With this provision, Petrol, d.d., and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia stated that they do not expect major changes in transport by 2030, which is not entirely in line with the country's strategies and guidelines for change in this area, including the increase in the number of electric vehicles. In New Slovenia, we believe that the objectives of our energy policy must be safe supply, environment and climate-friendly acquisition and use of energy, appropriate and competitive prices. Without sustainable and safe energy supply, economic, environmental and social problems will not be solved. The draft law on the efficient use of energy in Nova Slovenije will be adopted for all of the above reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u54	All in attendance, all in attendance! The proposal for an energy efficiency law governs certain specific energy fields currently covered by the Energy Act. The content of the law is quite extensive, making it difficult to transpose directives into the Slovenian legal order in a timely manner, since the law contains hundreds of articles. Therefore, the proposal is transmitted from the Energy Law, which is linked to the efficient use of energy. Some provisions have been amended to make them clearer and more transparent. We welcome this in the SAB because, in the light of the pursuit of the rule of law and legal certainty, we have to look to legal legislation as much as possible. The proposal transposes the provisions of two European directives whose transposition deadline has already expired. Among other things, Directives set higher targets for achieving energy efficiency. Before amending the Energy Efficiency Directive, a target of 20% energy efficiency gains by 2020 was set at European Union level. According to the new European Union, the target of at least 32.5% energy efficiency gains by 2030 is already more ambitious, as Slovenia wants to improve the target by 35% by 2030. The primary objectives of the bill are therefore to decarbonise the economy and extend from 2020 to 2030. The proposal contains additional requirements for long-term renovation of buildings, the provisions on measuring energy consumption are clearer, the charging points for electrical vehicles for buildings and for resting places outside the public road and for self-managed parking spaces for motor vehicles are partially regulated. This will also make it easier to switch to electric vehicles. Remember, transport represents the main producer of greenhouse gases for agriculture, and that is why we call on the Government to promote such decarbonisation in this light. As well as the previous minister, she provided fast bus lines and free tickets for pensioners for cross-border passenger transport. And it's right that the trains are electrified by buses. The draft law is also supported by the Energy Agency. The Chamber of Commerce presented its concerns about the provisions on energy savings in final customers. The proposal provides that the debtor must achieve a savings of 0.8 per cent instead of the current 0.25 per cent of the energy sold in the previous year. With regard to the three, it was pointed out that there was an enormous increase in commitments within a short period of time, which is now regulated by the amendment. Among other things, the proposer expects the proposal to have a positive impact on energy poverty. In the SAB we support all efforts to increase energy efficiency in buildings. That is why, with the advanced energy strategies of the previous Minister, we have taken a number of measures that already provide energy efficiency measures for the economy and thus provide savings and a competitive advantage to the covid during today's epidemic. Large savings are possible in this area and investments already have lasting effects. We therefore welcome the proposed measures, as we are working towards a permanent reduction of releases. In the future, however, efforts must be made to obtain as much energy as possible from clean, renewable sources in the long term. That is why we have already adopted and broken the number of legislative measures at the time of former Minister Alenka Bratušek, which allow for group forms of self-sustainment of residents and electricity economies. This will lead to an efficient use of energy, as we will provide as much energy as possible through production from clean, renewable sources. In the SAB Group, we will support the proposal for a law that ensures the transposition of European directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak presented the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for an energy efficiency law prepared by the Government, and today, with some additions adopted on the home working body, is still being considered here, lays down measures to promote energy efficiency and increase energy efficiency, and measures to improve energy efficiency for products and buildings. With the adoption of the law under consideration, energy efficiency and energy efficiency will be excluded from the extensive Energy Act. The transposition of these provisions into a new, independent law will lead to greater transparency and easier transposition of European legislation into the Slovenian legal order. European legislation in this area is often changing and these changes require frequent adaptation of national legislation with a view to timely transposition of European directives. Thus, some provisions are identical to those in the applicable Energy Act, some being amended or added as a result of implementation. The main objective of the bill before us is to increase energy efficiency in all sectors of society. It touches all members of the supply chain with energy and production, transmission, distribution and consumption. The bill also touches buildings and interferes with the construction sector in particular. The public sector plays a leading role in the renovation of buildings. The public-owned buildings represent around 10% of the entire building fund in Slovenia. Public sector organisations can purchase only energy-efficient buildings, products and services from 2018 onwards. Since 2021, no energy principle will apply to all new constructions. Energy in such buildings will have to be provided largely from renewable energy sources. The aim of the Republic of Slovenia is to reduce the use of final energy in buildings by 20% by 2030 compared to 2005. The law also introduces innovations in the installation of individual counters and clearer provisions on measuring energy consumption to consumers who will have individual counters and remote-reading dividers installed. The law guarantees the right to receive monthly information on heat consumption. The charging points for electric vehicles are foreseen, on the basis of the requirements laid down in the European Directive for individual cases, it will lay down different requirements for the installation of filling stations and the installation of infrastructure for the installation of cable lines. New non-residential and residential buildings with more than ten parking spaces and those undergoing major renovations will have to have electrically charged cable water. In addition, when considering the draft law on the home work body, an additional requirement was added that the investor must ensure the installation of at least one filling point for electric vehicles in the construction and major renovations of the resting places and the separate parking spaces for at least one electric cable line for at least one to each five parking spaces. We set ourselves a mission to become a climate neutral society. The aim of the Republic of Slovenia is to improve energy efficiency by at least 35% by 2030 according to the 2007 baseline scenario, which is even more ambitious than at European Union level. The concern for a healthy environment and, finally, the fight for the competitiveness of businesses obliges all of us to work towards a prudent use of resources. Although the transition to a climate neutral society is linked to costs and, of course, knowledge, this is the only way to a better future. The question is how to break the link between economic growth and increasing energy consumption. As an interesting thing to say in the end, there are 1.3 passengers driving on average to work in the world. If there were at least one more passenger in the car, we'd save about 2.4 million litres of petrol a day. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for an effective use of energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2020. Is there any desire to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. I'm putting paragraph 78 into the debate. There's no desire to discuss it here. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 96 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI. What kind of desire for a debate? No, no, no. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the meeting time frame tomorrow, 21. Ten. 2020, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a new law on amendments to the travel law under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Blaž Kosorok, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much again for your word, chairman. Allow me to briefly summarize the substantial changes and additions to the tolling law that is under consideration this time. The existing Tolling Act provides a comprehensive legal basis for tolling passenger and freight vehicles. This is a materially rounded whole which, in one legal act, regulates both the electronic tolling system for heavy goods vehicles over 3 000 500 kilograms of maximum permissible mass and the vignette tolling system for passenger vehicles. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law introduce or upgrade the legal provisions resulting from the Directive on the interoperability of road systems and facilitate the cross-border exchange of information. At the level of the European Union, individual provisions are being complemented to allow for more efficient interoperability of electronic toll systems in the European Union, and a new system of international data exchange will allow for more efficient recovery of the toll. For users of the toll network, the most important novelty is the creation of a condition for an electronic vignette system for passenger vehicles. The electronic vignette system will allow for a more digitised and partly fairer toll payment for the use of toll roads. Given the current trends and advantages of modern technical solutions, it is estimated that it is time to move forward in the area of tolling of passenger vehicles and to introduce electronic vineyards instead of current labels. The introduction of an electronic vineyard system and tolling of passenger vehicles will not be more expensive than in the existing system, as the toll will still be paid according to the time of use of the toll road and not after the actual distance transported. Thus, the same types of electronic vineyards will remain in force, i.e. weekly, monthly and annual. Only the way of charging will be changed, as it will replace electronic screws in the form of a label attached to a windscreen in the form of a digital record, which will be attached to the vehicle’s registration plate. The purchase of electronic vineyards will still be possible in classical sales places, i.e. gas services, sales sites of Dars, contract contractors and so on. A novelty in the purchase of an electronic vignette will be the possibility of buying over the Internet, which will simplify the purchase process for many. An additional advantage for users will also be the validity of an annual electronic vineyard, which will be linked to 365 days from the date of purchase, which means that validity will no longer be bound to the calendar year than in the existing system of classical wines, which means that users will in any case be able to benefit from the full validity of the wines. The electronic vignette will be linked to the vehicle’s registration mark, so the user will indicate when purchasing the vignette only the registration number of the vehicle for which he will buy the electronic vignette, the tolling class of the vehicle, as one-off class 2A, 2B, and the type of vignette he wants according to the time period of validity, i.e. annual, monthly or weekly. Since the tolling of personal vehicles in the future will be digitised, it will also simplify the control of users as it enables the use of electronic vinyl to be easier and more effectively monitored by means of technical means. The Ministry of Infrastructure, in cooperation with Dars, is working to establish a modern electronic vignette system which would be as user-friendly as possible, while ensuring the tolling of passenger vehicles in an efficient and modern manner. All the activities of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is responsible for preparing appropriate legal bases for the introduction of the electronic vinyl system, and Dars, which is responsible for carrying out all operational activities for their introduction, shall be guided by an electronic vinyl system established by 1. 12. 2021. We expect that further activities will be carried out in accordance with the envisaged timetable, with the aim of providing users with a more modern and efficient toll system within the time limit set. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third consideration of the draft law be held at the same meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Bojan Pod oblast. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Summary of the report to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tolling Act. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 21st session. Ten. 2020 as a parent labour body has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tolling Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelič, stressed that the proposal for a law rewards the legislative provisions arising from the EU Directive on the interoperability of toll systems and facilitates the cross-border exchange of information. However, a legal basis is also established for the tolling system for electronic winches for vehicles whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 3 thousand 500 kilograms, allowing for a digitised and partially fairer toll payment for the time use of toll e-vignettes which will be linked to the registration plate of the vehicle and will not be issued in the form of a sticker. The validity of the annual vignette will be 365 days from its purchase, so it will no longer be tied to the calendar year. E-vignette will be possible to purchase via mobile or online applications by entering a license plate into the information system or with all those with a special contract for the sale of such vineyards. Surveillance will be more modern, in the context of video control of license plates, via cameras, on portals, control vehicles or by manual scans to be used by toll controllers. In particular, he stressed that special attention had been given to the protection of personal data by users of the toll network in the drafting of the bill. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. The Horvat Pirnat method stressed that the draft law had been examined in accordance with their competences and had commented on the individual articles that had been taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. The representative of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Bojan Režun, stressed that the Commission supports the law's proposal, since the establishment of a tolling system with the time-consuming of toll roads with electronic wine for personal vehicles is moving technologically more modern and for toll road users a more friendly way of paying toll. The debate mainly expressed support for the bill. As an advantage of this system, in particular the validity of the annual vineyard, which will be linked to the date of purchase and not to the calendar period. The introduction of e-vignette will also be an easier way to buy and install e-vinjet, simplified and significantly better quality control over e-vinjet users, more order and easier control in the exercise of control over the driving of foreign drivers on Slovenian motorways. The proposal was also made to introduce a 15-day tolerance after the expiry of the annual wine and to introduce a 10-day wine instead of a weekly wine. In particular, the opposition parliamentary groups have been warned, inter alia, that e-vignettes open up the possibility of controlling users, that the latter constitutes an intervention in the privacy of the individual and the possibility of data abuse. It was pointed out that the mere fact that such data would exist somewhere allowed for abuse. It was also pointed out that there may be errors in the control of e-vinjet users, since optical reading of control systems is not 100 %. It has also been pointed out that the payment of the use of motorways will still be flat and the period of validity of the annual e-vignette will be shorter than the period of validity of the current two months. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted several amendments to the coalition groups and then, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted all the articles of the proposal together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Podkoršek, I invite you to stay at the speaker's desk. The following is a presentation of the parliamentary positions and please indicate the position of the SDS Group as the first position.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thanks again for the word. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tolling Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. The bill builds on the legal provisions resulting from the EU Directive on the interoperability of toll systems and facilitates cross-border exchange of information. A legal basis is also established for the toll system with electronic winch for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3 000 500 kilograms, allowing for a more digitised and partially fair payment of tolls for the time-consuming use of toll roads. E-vignettes will be linked to the registration plate of the vehicle and will not be issued in the form of a sticker. The validity of the wine will be 365 days from her purchase, so she will no longer be bound to the calendar year. E-vignette will be possible to purchase via mobile or online applications by entering a license plate into the information system or in those with a special contract for the sale of such vineyards. Surveillance will be more modern, in the context of video control of license plates, via cameras on portals, surveillance vehicles or by means of a manual scanner to be used by toll controllers. It is worth noting that special attention has been given to the protection of personal data of the users of the toll network in the drafting of the bill. It is also important that all comments to each article are taken into account by amendments to the coalition groups. We support the proposal for a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group because it represents a more technologically modern and a more friendly way of paying the toll for road users. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Pavšič is next to present the position of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you. It's obvious that the classic vignettes required to ride our highways will no longer be available. Thus, according to the minister, the annual scrapping of windshield stickers will fall away. In addition, the fact that e-vignettes, i.e. e-vignettes, will be valid one year after purchase and not more for one calendar year, as well as easier purchases, because it will be possible to buy e-wine over the internet, does not bring any major changes or significant improvements for users of the motorway novel. Although all the costs of printing stickers, handling, distribution fall away, the price for users will be the same. The validity will be reduced by two months, but at the same time, in our view, the amendment of the law lacks mainly security mechanisms to prevent abuse. We are confident that they will now be much more affected by the theft of license plates and the exchange of plates between cars. The registration number of the car will be the only identification mark and the control will be the same as before. They'll still be patrolling the highways, and the only way out of sight is through. In our opinion, therefore, it is only a beautiful correction of the already existing system, which will require additional investments on Dars. The identification of registered users will take place through the optical reading of license plates, which requires a system for optical car capture, i.e. photographing, and a support information system in which users will be registered. Additional communication equipment will also be needed for individual patrols, etc. The calls are already out, because it's actually in a hurry. It is therefore not about any digitisation in motorway traffic, more expensive or even fairer use of motorways, but it is about attractive and beautiful repairs. However, since users will have at least a minor benefit or purchase of e-vignettes will be facilitated, we will not oppose the amendment of the law in the Marjan Sharca List. However, we will closely monitor all developments in the implementation and implementation of the new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Mr Sonibo Knezak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor! The legal basis for the introduction of some new organisational and functional methods, which are also changing in this law today, was already provided by the adopted Tolling Act in 2015. The legislative proposal, which we have considered on the home labour body and that we confirm today, not only implements new organisational and functional methods, but is also being transposed into the proposal by a European directive on the facilitation of cross-border exchange of information within the European Union, but also regulates the clarity and determination of certain legal provisions that will contribute to greater legal certainty for all users, and will ultimately introduce digitisation of tolling in the form of an electronic wine. During our reading and consideration of the law, we had some concerns in the Group of Social Democrats, which were mainly addressed to the possible collection and abuse of personal data by users. The drafters in the legislative proposal state that the law was also transmitted during the coordination to the Information Officer, who made quite a few comments and concerns. All recommendations and comments received by the Information Officer were taken into account, according to the applicant. The proposal also received support from the Commission of the State Council, where they also highlighted the problem of determining the location and monitoring of the vehicle, collecting personal data, but at the same time welcomed the solutions that will digitise our society and represent a more modern and user-friendly way of using and paying the toll. We also have in our programme the objective of accelerated digitisation, which we see as exploiting the potential that digitisation offers and enables us. Most of the solutions proposed in the marriage proposal go in the direction of exploiting the digital potential and opportunities that will make our daily lives easier. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have recognised the solutions proposed by the law as good and will also support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tolling Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Ms Mateja Udovč will present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u68	Your Honor! The idea of introducing electronic vignettes has been on the table for some time now. First, we wrote it as a coalition commitment of the previous government, but in two years nothing has happened in this area. Then we re-entered it into the coalition contract with the partners of the current government coalition. Finally, today is the solution in the form of a bill amending and supplementing the law, which finally introduces electronic vignettes. Digitalisation is a reality and must also become our normality in the field of tolling. In 2018 electronic tolling was introduced for freight vehicles and it is high time to take a step in this direction also in the area of tolling of passenger vehicles. The survey conducted by Dars among users of Slovenian motorways last year showed that the introduction of electronic vignettes among domestic drivers is supported by 61% of drivers. Even more so, the introduction of electronic vignettes is supported by foreign drivers of passenger cars, with more than 70% of them. The results of the survey show that the public is also prepared for a new, more modern way of tolling passenger vehicles. Under the proposed law, the vignette will be bound to the registration plate and will be valid for 365 days from the date of purchase. Such purchases will no longer be linked to January 31st, which will be fairer for users. Consumers will also be saved annual removal of vignettes from windshields. In particular, the electronic vinyl system will be more user friendly in the case of damaged or broken windscreen. News always brings good things and, understandably, also raises certain questions. At the time of the consideration of the bill, Members of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure raised a number of issues which were mainly related to the exercise of supervision and the protection of personal data. Even though the introduction of electronic tolling from a technological point of view is not problematic, one of the biggest challenges is still ensuring effective control, which is directly linked to Darsa's revenues. From this point of view, it is therefore necessary to do everything possible to ensure effective control. We have therefore also pointed out on the Committee at the Modern Centre Party the importance of effectively intercepting non-payments between foreigners. In the Modern Centre Party, we are convinced that the competent authorities have carefully examined all aspects of the introduction of the electronic vignette. They also looked closely at the issues of control and protection of personal data. Nevertheless, in the Modern Centre Party, we appeal to the Minister to support the maintenance of the existing model of charging vineyards. In the Modern Centre page, we are not inclined to account on the basis of the mileage we knew before the introduction of the current vignette system. It is a fact that, following the introduction of the existing vignette model, local roads have become burdensome and transport safety has also improved. On the basis of all of this, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Željko Cigler will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u70	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The law under consideration lays the legal basis for the introduction of an electronic vineyard. This is problematic in two ways. The first is the aspect of privacy. The vehicle registration plate tracking system, which the electronic winch is effective, across the entire highway network means that Dars will have a database of all our rides. This invasion of privacy is unacceptable. Technically, such a system cannot be developed without the risk of such intrusions into privacy or even if the original system did not have this functionality, a group of computers can add it within a few days. Electronic vinyl is a system that would allow for a new mass collection of data on the inhabitants and inhabitants of the country. Even though the law prescribes a way of storing and processing data, only the fact that such data will exist, that they will be located, opens up the possibility of abuse. While the law states: “The use of personal data processed for the purposes of tolling is prohibited for other purposes, unless the law so provides.” And it is this loop, "unless it is so laid down by law", that will allow data on driving to be transmitted through other laws by someone who knows which state authorities all and for which needs, of course. We do not claim in Levica that the State must not collect personal data on persons moving around its territory. This can be very useful many times, and it can make it easier for the population and the population to have some administrative procedures. But we're against it where it's not necessary, because it doesn't do any good. And in the case of tolls, she doesn't bring it. We have a vignette system where we just put a sticker on the windshield without any personal data processing. And this system works just fine. There is no need for us to introduce a system of mass data collection here. Another problem with the law is that the introduction of electronic tolls will enable the suspension of the vignette system. We can read in the law that the law will allow for a more digitised and partly fair payment of tolls for the use of toll roads. What exactly does a fairer payment of the toll mean is not explained anywhere. We know, however, that the European Commission has long wanted to introduce tolls throughout Europe. The blames have enabled us not to superstandard highways, premium roads for those who are more wealthy or willing to pay more for a faster way to the goal, but have become only the highest ranking of roads on which all transit and remote traffic is running out. In countries where the payment system is maintained after a distance, the local population simply avoids motorways. Why? Because they're too expensive. Motorways, for example in Croatia, are not so much intended for local residents as for tourists who are willing to pay more for extra-standard services. Even though highways are a major intervention in the local environment and we all pay for them, either directly by buying wine or indirectly in the form of health, a bad view or otherwise, we would be otherwise accessible. The poor so, the richer otherwise. All of us pay for the motorways, and they are most likely to drive workers and workers who do not drive because it suits them, but because they have to drive to work because they have to take the child to school, kindergarten, and various school activities. In view of the kilometres transported, tourists pay the highest price among drivers of passenger cars, depending on the kilometres transported. The wine system is good for the inhabitants and inhabitants of this country and also serves us well. It is true that the law of this system does not end and only transposes the European Directive, but it is known that the European Commission is putting pressure on the Member States, that is, Slovenia too, to introduce tolling systems after a distance being transported. Electronic tolling will make it possible. Because of this and because of reservations about mass data collection in Levica, we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc is next to present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Hello again! With the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tolling Act, the tolling system is being upgraded in accordance with the amendments to European legislation which allows for more efficient interoperability of electronic toll systems at European Union level. The bill also establishes a legal basis for an electronic vignette toll system for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass of not more than 3 thousand 500 kilograms. Electronic vignettes, however, represent a major step towards digitisation of society, which thus represents a more technologically modern and more auspicious way of paying tolls for users of toll roads. That is why in New Slovenia we certainly support the law. We also welcome the fact that the validity of the annual vignette will be 365 days from its purchase and will no longer be linked to the calendar year. The user will be able to determine the date of entry into force for each type of e-wine. E-vinjets will be sold in the case of undertakings with a special contract for the sale of such vineyards and will be recorded in the information system of the road operator, thereby simplifying the exercise of control over users of e-vinjet, which will be more modern, within the framework of the video surveillance of license plates, via cameras on portals, surveillance vehicles or by hand scanners used by tollers. In particular, in Nova Slovenija, we are pleased that the Ministry of Infrastructure has given great attention to the protection of personal data by the users of the toll network in the preparation of legislative solutions. E-vignettes shall not permit the identification or monitoring of a vehicle in such a way as to determine the movement or location of a particular vehicle. In the event that the control system does not detect a breach of the compulsory payment of the toll, the data on the vehicle's location shall be deleted immediately. However, if the control system records a breach of the unpaid toll, the location information shall be kept pending the completion of the procedure. It is also aware that the procedure for recovery of unpaid tolls for foreign users of the Slovenian toll network is demanding and, in most cases, unsuccessful if a foreign offender is not identified and sanctioned in the territory of Slovenia, which will certainly allow for a new video surveillance system. It will, of course, be easier to control domestic users of the toll network, as a possible insight into the registered vehicle database will be possible. In addition, toll control vehicles will be equipped with surveillance cameras, and toll controllers will also use hand-held scanners to read license plates that can also be used in parking spaces. In New Slovenia we are convinced that digitisation changes everything. It fundamentally changes the image of the economy, politics and society. The digital revolution brings new challenges and opens up new opportunities. Digitalization enters all times of our lives. It sets new requirements and opens up completely new options. Our goal is that Slovenia is on the side of the digital revolution and to take advantage of its opportunities for a development breakthrough. Since the law on amendments and additions to the Tolling Act is going in this direction, we will certainly support the New Slovenia Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Master Andrej Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u74	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for amendments and additions to the Tolling Act builds on provisions in accordance with the amendments to European Union legislation that will allow for more efficient interoperability of electronic toll systems at European Union level. However, the most important novelty contained in the proposal is the introduction of electronic vignettes for vehicles whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 3 thousand 500 kilograms. Electronic vignettes will bring some benefits. It will be possible to buy them at the usual places of sale, and as a novelty it will be possible to buy them online. Weekly, monthly and annual vignettes will be available. The annual vignette will be valid for one year from the day of purchase and will thus no longer be tied to the calendar year. As a result, payment will be partly fairer. Regarding the price, the Ministry's representatives did not give us any more detailed explanations. They only ensured that the vinyls would no longer have to be installed on the windshield as the electronic screws would be in the form of a digital record and would be attached to the registration plate of each vehicle. For the AB Party, mobility is one of the most important themes and the introduction of the vignette system on our roads has thus made a significant contribution to transport safety. The electronic tolling system also represents a step forward in line with the development of technology and digitisation. Among other things, greater control of offenders will be possible as the use of vignettes will be controlled by technical means. At the time of consideration of this proposal of the law, in the SAB Group, we were given the idea that the introduction of an electronic vignette could be a step towards paying the toll by a mile. We have received assurances from the Ministry of Infrastructure that this will not be the case and that payments will remain the same as before, in view of a certain period. The proposal also takes into account all controllers concerning the protection of personal data, as confirmed by the information officer. There is a fear of location tracking, which will be disabled as the system will be automated and, if this is not the case, the data will be erased immediately. The result of the vignettes is a shift from local roads to motorways that are adapted for faster, more comfortable driving and are also safer. As a result, the quality of life of people is better, as most traffic is avoided by settlements. We welcome the introduction of e-vignettes in the SAB Group, which is why we will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will be next in line to present the views of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The basic Tolling Act is fully regulated by toll vehicles in the Republic of Slovenia. For vehicles up to 3 thousand 500 kilograms of total weight, the toll shall be paid according to the time of use and for vehicles over 3 thousand 500 kilograms of total weight, the toll shall be paid with respect to the untransmitted distance. The legislation also transposed the European Union Directives into the Slovenian legal order, the first of which related to road charges for the use of certain infrastructure for heavy goods vehicles, while the second related to the interoperability or harmonisation of electronic toll systems in the European Union. The transposition of European Union directives into our legal system has also created a legal basis for the introduction of certain new organisational, technical and functional methods necessary to adapt the toll system in Slovenia to other EU Member States' toll systems. Each of you is probably reminded of the collapse of toll stations, which allowed vehicles to no longer have to stop at toll stations due to the introduction of so-called tolling in a free stream introduced in Slovenia on 1 April 2018. This method of tolling has made a significant contribution to the flow and safety and traffic safety of the tolling stations, as control points have been established in order to ensure effective control of the various types of vehicles at which the supervisory authorities, Furs, customs, traffic inspectorate, toll control, police and others exercise full control over each type of vehicle. In the Desus Group, we believe that by adopting a new law that will replace the classic so-called e-wine they already know in some other EU Member States, we would make an important step towards modernisation and tolling, while at the same time the general digitisation of society and its subsystems, which we like to stress. Let me just mention that in some EU Member States, such as Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, complete electronic toll has already been introduced. In some EU Member States such as Austria, however, they have a so-called combined system or choice between classical and electronic wines. In the novel of the Law in the Desus Group we see mostly good solutions. Here I would like to mention in particular the system of electronic vignettes in terms of time purchase, the transfer of registration plates between vehicles in the event that both vehicles are classified in the same toll grade, the warning of the validity of the electronic vignette. But it is very important for us to see a novelty that keeps the price of future electronic vignettes at the same level as before. We only hope that in the future there will not be any incentive for these, and indeed, because of the simpler process of both production and distribution, the lower costs, in our view, could be even lower. Nor should we ignore the environmental aspect, since by removing classical wines, although materials for making classical wines are increasingly ecological, at least a fraction would help to reduce waste and thus preserve nature. We are pleased that the proposal for a new law agrees with both the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and that, other than the technical comments made on the proposal for a law, the Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly has not been supported by the proposed Law on Changes and Supplements to the Toll Law in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. As the last position of the SNS Group, Mr Dušan Šiško will be presented. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. It was only a matter of time before we too will receive e-wine and follow the example of other European countries such as Hungary, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania. After 13 years, the new system is definitely liked, since drivers will no longer need to glue and especially difficult to remove old vines. It will also be easier to see through the windshield, for some have an already-painted rainbow collection of old vineyards. Prices remain the same as before, despite the fact that in electronic vineyards there will be savings in the cost of printing and distribution. The introduction of e-wine does not bring toll payments in relation to a mile, as originally expected. It will apply 365 days from its purchase, for example from September to September, and will not be tied to the calendar year as it has been so far. Certain citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as foreigners who only transport Slovenia, have already wanted to have one day's vignettes available, as they take, for example, a few times a year to visit a doctor, a trip to the sea. That's not gonna happen. It's supposed to work in a simple way, because through the system of cameras that are already standing on the highways, they recognize license plates. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that this way allows a wide range of abuses, fraud and theft of car plates. Cameras, if there's even enough of them, they're supposed to be recording license plates. And the Darsovs will keep a close eye on who paid the vignette and who didn't. But we don't have such a strong system to control everything. Since most people today use modern technology, it will be possible to buy via application, online or old, on petrol services. Anyone who has an e-vignette would have a freeway on our highways, and the violators would be recognized and punished. Let us be aware that Slovenia is a transit country where strict supervision and control, especially of foreigners, will be required. According to information I have obtained from a foreign court, an excusable sentence is handed down and there is no need to pay a fine up to the amount of the €80 offence. Now tell me if the Slovenians will also have these benefits if they drive on the highway three times a year and get a fine of up to €80. It's not fair to the Slovenian people, it's not fair. The novelty proposal thus contains all the security guards so that the system, after checking the drivers, will delete the data at the moment, except in the case of the violator, but does not apply to foreigners. Without concern, for the protection of personal data where e-vignettes must not allow the identification or monitoring of the vehicle's movement in such a way as to determine the movement or location of a particular vehicle will be taken care of. I don't know why you don't want to accept our proposal that when a vehicle is registered in a road fund, e-vignettes are also considered. Assuming that the road fund increases proportionally, but not more than the current price of the vignette, for example, is now around 70%. For foreigners, it should be either an e-vignette or an old glue sticker. Thank you for your attention and good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, 21 October, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 21st meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice day, everybody!
