ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 15th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Tadeja Šuštar, Nada Brinovšek and Mateja Udovč from 15:00 on. Once again, I politely welcome all those present! With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to 6. On the day-to-day basis, this is another defence proposal for a law amending the law on the amount of reimbursement of costs in connection with work and certain other advantages under the ordinary procedure. The bill was tabled by 5,000 voters and voters for consideration by the assembly, so I give the floor to Mrs Maja Marolt's representative. Mrs. Majda, it's yours for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members, all present! I am pleased to present to you today a proposal for a law amending the Law on the level of reimbursement of labour costs and certain other benefits resulting from the cooperation of the Municipality, Security and Real Estate Union of Slovenia and the Municipal Economy Chamber. The bill was tabled with the support of over 7,000 certified signatures of the electorate and electorate. I focus only on municipal activity, given that we are a representative organisation of workers and employers in the field of municipal activity, but that equally makes sense for all activities affected by the Labour Reimbursement Act and certain other benefits. The main purpose of the proposed law is to remove restrictions on collective bargaining and eliminate unequal treatment of employees in municipal activities. In doing so, it should be stressed that this is an activity in which workers are engaged, whose physical effort must certainly be taken into account in the measurement of the cost of reimbursement. In addition, there is the fact that the vast majority of workers do their work on the ground, and work is done all the days of the year and under all weather conditions. The Labour Relations Act is designed in a way that, according to the specificity of individual activities, the social partners agree on the way and the amount of the cost of eating. The basic cost-reimbursement instrument is in accordance with the guidance of the Law on Working Relations in Collective Contracts of Activities. The proposed amendment to the Labour Reimbursement Act and some other benefits will allow a group of citizens who carry out activities of particular social importance to be able to provide adequate nutrition during work. The social partners will be allowed freedom to coordinate the level of employee benefits. The social partners, trade unions and employers agreed on an appropriate amount of reimbursement of the cost of food for employees in municipal activities, taking into account, of course, the specifics of the activity, but this is still the law that prevents the agreed amount of reimbursement of the cost of food from being applicable to all employees. Employees in enterprises that are mainly owned by local communities receive a lower cost of nutrition than employees in privately owned enterprises. The proposed amendment to the law removes precisely these restrictions, which unjustifiably create inequalities between employees in municipal activities bound by the collective agreement on municipal activities. At the same time, the proposed amendment of the law prevents the emergence of a legal void by enacting legislation for all areas or activities where there is no social dialogue or collective bargaining. In such a case, it will still be possible to apply the provisions of the law. I would like to point out that this proposed amendment to the Act amending the Act on the amount of reimbursement of labour costs and certain other benefits eliminates the unequal treatment of employees in municipal activities performing hazardous and heavy physical work under difficult working conditions, so it is essential that they have adequate nutrition. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Marolt, for your explanation. The competent working body is the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, and I therefore give the floor to President Vojko Starović. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! The proposal for a law amending the Act on the level of reimbursement of labour costs and certain other benefits was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. On the basis of Article 88 of the Constitution and Article 58 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative and Article 114 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law has submitted more than 5,000 voters for consideration. The committee was attended by representatives of the proponents, representatives of the Government, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, a representative of the State Council and a representative of the union. The representatives of the motions presented a proposal for a law, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that their comments were duly taken into account with the proposed amendments. They will also correct the address accordingly. The Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, presented by their representative at the meeting of the Committee, supports the proposal for a law on its behalf. The Government, in a written opinion presented by the Secretary of State on the Committee, does not oppose the consideration of the bill. In the debate, all the debaters supported the draft amendments. It was a pleasure to leave the social partners with certain autonomy in regulating labour relations. The union of utilities, security and real estate operations in Slovenia and the Chamber of Municipal Economy have submitted more than 7,000 signatures to amend the law. All the debaters agreed that it was reasonable and fair for the discrimination found to be eliminated, but of course they want the change not to have an impact on the increase in labour costs, so that all costs would be incurred by end-users and the prices of municipal services would rise, as the Government also pointed out in its opinion. As part of its search for a solution by repealing the law in question, the Government also points out that more and more applicable rules are being invoked in this law, so only by repealing this issue without prior regulation would there be a legal void that would lead to difficulties in implementing those rules. The discussion went on to stress that the unequal treatment of employees in companies in this area should be abolished. Finally, there is a direct impact of quality nutrition on healthy workers, which should be the objective of each employer. The Committee adopted its amendments and voted on all the articles together and adopted them. A complementary bill has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr President, for the Committee's position. By doing so, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to an explanation of the views of the groups of Members. Before that, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u6	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With regard to amendments and additions to the Labour Reimbursement Act and to certain other benefits dealt with by the National Assembly today, we would like to point out, firstly, that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, on a proposal from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Trades and Trade Organisations, has already prepared a proposal for a law on the termination of the Labour Reimbursement Act and certain other benefits to repeal the law in force in 2017. In the context of cross-cutting coordination, the idea was then expressed in relation to the regulation of the remuneration of workers employed in companies subject to this law that less exposure to market risks should be taken into account when assessing the situation of these workers and the related question of whether the legal regulation of matters governed by the law is still necessary. This is often the case with entities set up specifically to meet the needs of general interest and which do not operate under conditions of free competition on the market with other entities. At the same time, it was proposed that a new law should be adopted to replace the Law on the Receipts of Business Persons in Business Companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the Self-Governmental Local Communities, the content of which would be extended by issues governed by the Act on the Reimbursement of Work Costs and certain other benefits. At the 314th meeting of the Economic and Social Council, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was then invited to draw up an appropriate regulation whereby the Labour Reimbursement Act and certain other benefits would cease to apply. The most appropriate solutions were sought among all the stakeholders in the direction of alternative options for regulating the remuneration of workers in companies subject to the law. A review of the impact on workers' income in the event of the expiry of the law has also been prepared, which has become the basis for the preparation of appropriate solutions. On 4 November 2019, before the completion of the process of drafting the government proposal, a proposal for amendments was tabled and the law supplemented by a group of electors and electors was tabled. On the basis of the solution provided for by the amendment of the law, workers employed in companies bound by the Labour Reimbursement Act and certain other benefits will be entitled to reimbursement of costs at or on the basis of the Act on the amount of costs incurred in connection with work and certain other benefits only if a different arrangement is not laid down in the collective agreement at the level of activity. The government does not oppose the amendment and the addition, as we have heard. It should be noted, however, that the change will entail increased costs for some of the reimbursements to employees in organisations of general interest in the public sector and thus put additional pressure on the price of public service services. Notwithstanding the applicant's statement that the proposal has no direct implications for the State budget, any risks or impact on the negotiation process with the public sector unions should also be identified for the appropriate decision. In connection with the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the Agreement on the Resolution of the Textile Requirements to open negotiations on the abolition of the remaining austerity measures in the public sector, the subject of the negotiations will also be the subject of the content covered by this material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Indeed, we are now in the position of the Group of Members. You have the first word, Mr Vojko Starović, Party of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u8	Thank you, Chairman. Say hello again! Last September, the Union of Municipalities, Security and Real Estate Management of Slovenia, together with the Chamber of Municipal Economy, submitted a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Act on the level of reimbursement of labour costs and certain other benefits. The Act was adopted in 1997 with the aim of unitary arrangements for the payment of certain costs related to non-economic work. Its amendments were then adopted twice and the Public Finance Balance Act, which was adopted in May 2012, ceased to be valid for all entities other than employers who are majority owned by local communities or countries. The remuneration for these workers shall be paid on condition and in the manner laid down by collective agreements of activity, but at the amount set out in the law, this shall be 4,61 for food, as opposed to others where it is 6,12 euros. In the SAB Group, we welcome the initiative of the Union and the Chamber after the removal of restrictions, which unduly create inequalities between employees. The amendment of the law recognises the competence of the social partners to regulate the rights and obligations arising from working relationships autonomously and allows them to be free to eliminate social inequalities between employees carrying out activities of special social interest. The proposal thus introduces a principle and a favour which gives rise to a general working rule that rights and obligations are not defined as maximum, but as a minimum working standard that can be upgraded at collective level or regulated more favourably for the worker. The amount of reimbursements provided for in this Act shall be valid only if the collective agreement at the level of the activity is not specified differently. The proposed legislative changes constitute an appropriate temporary solution, allowing for the implementation of the agreements set out in the framework of social dialogue and the provisions of the law governing working relations until a more appropriate and comprehensive solution is identified in government interdepartmental coordination. In the SAB Group, we are pleased that the amendment proposal has emerged with the broad agreement of all stakeholders, governments, trade unions, employers and also the Economic and Social Council. On this occasion, I call on the Government to approach a comprehensive solution to the problem as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Yuri Leprechaun, on behalf of the Desus Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, the proposer, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend the Labour Reimbursement Act and certain other benefits is one in a series of three legislative texts that eliminate the diversity of regulations that discriminate against the rights and position of workers. In December, the adopted amendment to the Act on Working Relations concerning the day off for parents of primary schoolchildren, and tomorrow, we will consider and expect to adopt another legal text, also related to the inequality of parents with regard to the right to leave for the islands. This law, which we are dealing with today and which applies only to certain working organisations and regulates, among other things, the amount of the work-food regression, has been in force since 1997. Since the entry into force of the Public Finance Balance Act, it only obliges entities owned by local communities or by the State. These companies include the majority of utilities in Slovenia. As the different legal organisation of municipal enterprises or their ownership structure leads to the different treatment of workers in this activity, which is of particular social importance, this situation needs to be addressed. Nearly 10 000 municipal workers are deprived of food costs when paying for their expenses. Every month, each of them can receive up to 30 euros less if we compare their colleagues from private utility companies, which are not limited by the provisions of this law. The difference in the daily allowance for their diet of 1.5 euros can undoubtedly have a significant impact on the quality of the meal during the time of service, which they can afford at the moment of recognised regression, especially in the fact that they pay in municipal activities even about not on the Slovenian average. However, quality nutrition is one of the key factors not only for health, because we know that the type of work or the difficulty of work carried out by municipal workers requires adequate nutrition and that it has a strong impact on their work efficiency. Of course, it makes sense that such anomalies and discriminatory practices are eliminated. In the Desus Group, we absolutely agree and agree on the proposed amendment of the law, which allows for dialogue with the social partner to a greater extent. A positive surprise in this bill is that, in their efforts, they have joined forces in both sides, workers and employers, who usually find it difficult to find a common language in the field of labour law. For example, in every attempt to raise the minimum wage, there has been a lot of resentment or even the threat of forgiveness, and today we are witnessing abuse or finding a way to disregard the new legal arrangement that came into force this year. We are also witnessing a transfer of the consequences of raising the minimum wage to the end-user. This has been especially felt in the past by caregivers at home for the elderly, and the same is happening this year. Because of the law we are enacting today, it can happen the same way, that is to say, higher prices for municipal services. Of course, Members of the Desus Group expect that this will not just happen. We will vote in favour of the proposed law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Dusan Shisko, SNS Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u12	Good day to you all! The problem of unequal cost-recovery for workers in municipal companies has been dragging for quite some time, and it is right that this is at least temporary system regulation, although I do not know where you have all been so far. It is not fair for workers doing the right work in the framework of the public economic service to receive different amounts in the reimbursement of food costs only due to different status forms or ownership. Workers in private-owned utilities receive a much higher amount of cost-recovery during work than workers who are employed in public utilities. The first receives the reimbursement of the cost of eating in accordance with the collective agreement of municipal activities and the second in accordance with the applicable provisions of the law. It is said that for the same work a municipal worker receives 2 euros less for lunch just because he is employed in a public company. It is totally unjustified discrimination or unequal treatment of employees in companies bound by this law compared to other workers employed in the same activities. Municipal workers work in the field under difficult and unpleasant conditions. To be able to do their job, they must be nourished and physically prepared. This can only be ensured by adequate and regular diet. The difference in the cost of eating is about 2 euros, which is not small. So the first one can go on a warm meal, and the second one can only go on a sandwich or every other day for a warm meal. If we recalculate, at the annual level, this represents 400 Euros lower compensation for a community worker in a public enterprise than the municipal worker in a private enterprise receives. It is appropriate to allow the social partners the freedom to coordinate the remuneration of employees. This would resolve the unequal treatment of employees restricted by the law in force. Of course, anomalies also occur in other areas and not only in the field of municipal activity. The amendment of the law would thus, at least temporarily, resolve all areas covered by the current legislation. Even though the proposal is good, of course we have concerns. There is nowhere to assess the financial implications. The change will certainly have financial implications for certain employers, in those activities where collective agreements provide for higher amounts of payment than those laid down in the law in force. The question is how will employers tackle the financial burden that will arise as a result of higher payments for the reimbursement of food. They are likely to increase the prices of services, which will once again cause general dissatisfaction. And we're back where we don't know what we're gonna do if the price of services goes up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. The Chamber of Municipal Economy and the Union of Municipalities, with 7,000 certified signatures of voters in the National Assembly, passed the law before us today. The amendment to the law refers to the removal of restrictions on collective bargaining in a way that allows the social partners to agree on the remuneration of employees for community workers themselves. Currently, discriminatory treatment of workers working in municipal companies owned by local communities is in place, compared to those working in municipal companies with concessions. Those who are owned by local communities can pay for lunch only at 4.2 euros, while the second reimbursement for food costs is 6,12 euros, as agreed in the collective agreement on municipal activities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree that a 4.2-euro refund for physical workers is not enough and that the 6.12-euro minimum they deserve is not enough. It bothers us, however, that the Government has not implemented the decision adopted on the Economic and Social Council of 30. 3. 2018, which he undertook to draw up an appropriate provision to terminate the provisions of the Law on the amount of the costs of work and certain other benefits relating to non-economic activities. On 16 November 2018, following the appearance of the Government of Marjana Sarca, this point was re-exposed, but nothing happened. The law that stands before us today does, however, solve the problem for a particular group of people, but unfortunately not for everyone. As has already been pointed out on the Labour Committee, the law will not solve the problem for all those who have also given their signatures to this marriage initiative. They also added their signatures to employees who also work under difficult conditions, which are employees of Dars. But since Dars is not bound by any collective agreement, the problem remains for them. Also, Dars employees will not be able to receive a higher refund for lunch. As they have contributed their signatures to this marriage initiative, they have legitimate expectations, of course, and it would be good to settle this problem for them too. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the initiative which, due to the non-reaction of the previous and current government in leaving, has been tabled through the signatures of the voters. We expect, however, that as soon as possible, discriminatory arrangements will be arranged for everyone to see that even the physical workers employed in Dars will have a greater return on lunch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Aljaž Kovacič of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, President. Respectable proposer, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! For each inhabited area, it is essential to provide basic material conditions, since with only the regulated accommodation with all the necessary infrastructure, we can enable the development of all other activities. As the structure of the settlements developed in parallel with their development, various activities related to environmental and spatial regulation and/or community activities have developed and changed. Communal activity is therefore of exceptional importance to all countries. However, employees of this activity work for the public good in all possible weather conditions, summers and winters. In Slovenia, unfortunately, there has been a situation where workers in public utilities are placed in an unequal position vis-à-vis those employed in the private sector. The difference in the cost of food is more than EUR 400 for the same work, under the same conditions only because one of the employees in the company whose owner or majority owner is a state or municipality and the other is employed in private companies. The latter are in line with the collective agreement on municipal activities, which also sets the amount of reimbursement of the various costs to workers in amounts agreed by the representative trade unions and employers' organisations, the reimbursement of the cost of eating during work set at EUR 6 per day. On the other hand, municipal workers who are employed in state-owned or predominantly owned enterprises or local communities receive more than 4 euros a day due to the provisions of the current law. Let me point out that we are not talking about restrictions on the basis of actual work or type of work done, but rather on the basis of the way in which the organisation or status is organised. Today we have before us an amendment to the Act on the level of reimbursement of labour costs and some other benefits, which will equalize the cost of nutrition between the work of workers in private utilities and workers in public utilities. With this novelty, we will remove restrictions on the implementation of the collective agreement and give the social partners free hands as regards the enforcement of employee income. In doing so, the provisions of that law will remain in force in those activities which are not regulated by a collective agreement at the level of activity. In this regard, we expect the competent Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to draw up in the future an appropriate regulation to terminate the applicable Labour Reimbursement Act and some other benefits, as also called for by the Economic and Social Council. We are pleased that today's amendment to the law enjoys the support of both governments, unions and employers. In addition, the draft law was unanimously supported by the parent’s working body. We will also support the proposal in the Marjan Šarc Group today, calling on all those responsible not to raise the prices of municipal services due to changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Sonibo Knezak of the Group of Social Democrats has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you, President. Your Honor! The Labour Reimbursement Act and certain other benefits applicable to employees in State bodies, local community bodies, agencies, public institutions and public undertakings, and in banks owned by the State, among other labour-related costs, also provides for reimbursement of transport costs for work and lunch. The proposed amendment to the law proposed by the Municipal Workers' Union and the Chamber of Municipal Enterprises, with the support of 5,000 voters, aims to equalise employees in the reimbursement of costs related to work in public and private companies engaged in community activities. The trade union and the chamber propose an amendment to the law, which would provide that the amount of reimbursement of the costs related to the work provided for in the law shall be governed by law, unless otherwise specified by a collective agreement at the level of the activity. In the case of municipal workers, the problem is that the collective contract for municipal workers determines the amount of the meal at 6,12 euros, but only workers in private utilities receive the amount of the meal. In public utilities, which are owned by municipalities and are bound to respect the law that we are considering today, the amount of the refund for lunch is 4,20 euros. In the event of reimbursement of the cost of lunch, the employees of municipal companies are thus unduly separated from the status of the undertaking in which they are employed, irrespective of the actual form of work they are doing. All employees in community activities do the same or similar work, but they receive a different refund for lunch. In addition, trade unions and chambers point out that in the case of municipal workers, it is mainly for employees who perform physically more difficult work on the ground, where it is difficult to provide a suitable meal for only 4,20 euros. We support the proposed amendment because it will recognise the competence of the social partners to regulate their rights and obligations independently from working relationships, allowing them to agree on a different solution than the law currently provides. We also support the proposal because it follows the general principle of labour law, which stipulates that rights and obligations in working relationships are not regulated in the form of maximum working standards, but rather as minimum working rules which can be upgraded at collective level by collective agreements between employers and workers. The aim of this principle is that it is always possible, if an agreement is reached between the social partners, to regulate more favourable rights for all workers. With the proposed amendment, we follow this principle and allow the social partners freedom to harmonise the amounts of remuneration and to remove the restrictions which unjustifiably create an unequal situation in the reimbursement of the cost of lunch between workers in municipal activities, depending on whether they are employed in the public or private sector. In December 2018, Kolga Predrag Baković also addressed this issue to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, from which he received an answer to prepare an appropriate law as soon as possible. I am sorry that this has not happened and that the unions have had to organise the collection of signatures, but I am pleased that we will finally remedy this irregularity with today.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Mojca Žnidarič has the floor on behalf of the modern centre Party Group. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you, President. Respected and respected! The social dialogue aims to address strategic issues and measures relating to economic and social policy in cooperation and agreement with employers, workers and the Government as a third party. The bill that we are considering today is a positive example of such social dialogue, and even a case where both trade unions and employers put themselves on the same side in order to achieve the common objective. In fact, this shows that social dialogue is still alive and, above all, is possible, so that we are satisfied and support the elimination of the discrimination that the legal change addresses in the Member State of the SMC. It is right for the social partners to be granted certain autonomy in the regulation of working relations or freedom of collective bargaining, which is also the main purpose of the proposed legislative changes that we are considering today. The result of the current regulation is that workers in municipal companies receive a different regression payment for lunch according to the status form of the employer in which they are employed. This has, in fact, allowed for a number of years of unjustified distinction between workers and the different social situation of employees in the municipal sector, who are mostly engaged in demanding physical work. The differences in practice show that local community-owned workers receive around €340 per year for food during work less than workers in private sector companies. In the SMC Group of Members, we have already expressed the expectation that the higher labour costs will not be passed on to end-users. We do not want today's amendment to the law to result in a higher price for the bill paid by citizens and citizens for municipal services. This responsibility rests on municipal companies themselves, and we are also expressing this expectation today. However, we support the bill because we support proposals and solutions based on the principles of equal treatment, contractual freedom and free social dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Miha Kordish, Group of the Left. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. The law we are discussing today has ceased to apply to public servants since the adoption of Zujf. It applies to employers owned by a majority of the country or municipalities, including municipal companies, i.e. workers working in companies owned by a majority of the state or municipality. What's the law doing? It limits the level of payments and prevents employers from paying higher labour-related costs. For example, if higher payments are agreed in a collective agreement at the level of activity, they cannot apply to workers in municipal companies. Thus, workers in a municipal company receive a lower refund for lunch than workers in a company with a concession or in a private company. However, this amendment proposes that the height at the level of collective agreements may be different. However, this is a partial solution, as those workers who fall under this law but on the other hand do not have collective agreements with which a higher compensation would be provided will remain on the same. That is to say, only if they are subject to more favourable provisions in collective agreements will they receive higher refunds for lunch, otherwise they will still receive a return of 4.2 euros. The problem described by the proposer, I quote, "games for physically demanding work and adequate nutrition for 4.2 euros cannot be guaranteed". End of quote. So he insists on working for other industries. For example, the amount of lunch payment won't change for Darsa's employees. It's just one case. Therefore, if it is not possible to provide adequate nutrition with 4.2 euros, this cannot only apply to some workers, but must apply to at least all workers performing physically demanding work. Black is a partial solution that improves the situation of only certain groups of workers, and although it uses arguments that apply to all, we will support this law. But I call on the unions to demand more. And a policy to hear them on these calls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As a last word, this is a great honor, Mrs Iva Dimic, New Slovenia's Group of Members – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u24	Your Honor! The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 5,000 voters. The proposed legislation aims to remove restrictions on the collective agreement on the harmonisation of the remuneration of employees bound by the collective agreement on municipal activities. The adoption of the law would allow social partners the freedom to harmonise the remuneration of employees. Restrictions that currently unduly create social inequalities between employees would be removed. A group of citizens carrying out activities of particular social importance will be able to provide adequate nutrition during work. The fight to eliminate a criminal anomaly that puts workers doing comparable work in the framework of the public economic service in an unequal position with regard to the reimbursement of food costs during work has been on the run since 2016. According to the Chamber of the Municipal Economy and the Community Trade Union, the protection and business of real estate is an unjustified distinction, which is particularly inappropriate due to the type of work carried out by workers of municipal enterprises mainly in the field, it is difficult physical work and unpleasant conditions, which require adequate nutrition. The proposed arrangement allows certain work-related costs to be taken into account, as agreed by the social partners with the collective agreement at the level of activity, and the social partners to be recognised as autonomously regulating the rights and obligations of working relationships. In New Slovenia we stress that workers must receive a fair payment for their work. Their employment should provide them with an adequate level of security and stability. In New Slovenia, we support collective agreements as an important legal source and social dialogue, as a form of cooperation and mutual dispute resolution, so we will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you, Madam Members, for your presentation as well. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, 29 January 2020, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. AND 9. Agenda item — First defence proposal for a law on the amendments to the Law on State Border Surveillance and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. In accordance with the agreement at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly on 17 January 2020, we will hold a joint debate on these agenda items in the applicant's opening statement, presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Both draft laws were tabled by the Government. With regard to this proposal for laws, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Daniel Krivec requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Boštjan Poklukar. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u26	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today I would like to present to you the reasons for supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace and the Law on the Control of the State Border. The first resounding case of the so-called Styrian Guard was concluded by a judgment of the Maribor District Court, in which Andrej Šiško and Matthew Lesjak were found guilty of protecting the violent change of state regulation. In spite of the court’s legal judgment, the Styria Guard continues its activities through the online network and recruits its new members. In doing so, they have become more cautious and no longer call for the destruction of constitutional arrangements or the takeover of the tasks of the state authorities. In particular, they promise to help and inform the public authorities of the police, which is to some extent even desirable, but in a way that is done by citizens who live in these areas and who perceive the emergence of illegal migrants. The past of convicted warlords is particularly problematic. The police note that they have changed the form of action, activity and also public rhetoric to the extent that their conduct is generally not recognized as a crime or offence under the applicable rules. Police note that increasing the number of illegal state border crossings strengthens the interest in the operation of various official and informal movements, initiatives, associations of so-called guards. In spite of the denial that they are to unite and act with a view to taking over defence tasks or security tasks or the tasks of protecting the state border, it is their ability to understand their behaviour as the exercise of such tasks by the so-called self-initiativearies of the state border, the village guard and their integration and the way in which they move in the border areas. Their conduct, appearance and mode of action have individual signs of the spread of hostility, public exaggeration, justification for violence and their use. In the light of such findings, the police have repeatedly informed local district prosecutors, but so far the prosecution has not recognized all the necessary signs of crimes whose perpetrators are being prosecuted under official responsibility, so no pre-trial proceedings have been initiated. Such tours of the state border are also carried out by the Styrian Guard with its members or supporters. The thing is, they're wearing the same clothes and coverings that look like uniforms. When they appear in the public, in the media or on social networks, they also use symbols such as coat of arms and flags, thus creating an impression of a strong hierarchical arrangement within these organisations. Private vehicles with their identification marks are often used. In the public, this is a misperception of their powers, and such conduct must be defined as a criminal offence in order to be effectively prevented and prevented. The conduct of organised or self-organised groups is contrary to the constitutional and democratic arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia, which protects in particular respect for human dignity and is inherently linked to human rights and security. As Minister of the Interior, I believe that, in view of the change in the way the groups operate, we also need to adapt legislation accordingly. Our common goal must be to prevent the operation of paramilitary and similar groups, even if they are merely observing and informing the police. The fact is, by their uniformed form and operation, they try to create the impression that they are performing the tasks of protecting the state border, which is exclusively within the competence of the state authorities. However, under the applicable State Border Control Act, the conduct of groups and individuals who imitate the functioning of police at the state border or further impede the control of the state border by their conduct is not defined as a criminal act. The police must first identify the reasons for the detention of such groups and individuals at the border or respond to calls from citizens who notice the movement of such groups but do not wish to act as witnesses in the process. These conducts of groups and individuals as such are not generally defined as an offence until the actions described in this article have caused a sense of humiliation, threat, injury or fear. Those acts, however, shall be transferred from an offence to a crime only after one commits an act that only an official or a military person is entitled to carry out in the law, or carries out an official act or carry out any other offence. This is also the opinion of the District State Prosecutors in the Republic of Slovenia. For those reasons, with a view to ensuring effective protection of the State border and a clear delimitation of the powers of State border protection, the proposal for the amendment of the Law on State Border Control provides clearly and unequivocally that any conduct of an individual or group carried out in a manner equivalent to or similar to the form of police tasks in the exercise of State border control or impeding the police in the exercise of State border control is prohibited. The applicable law on the protection of public order and peace prohibits an individual in a public place from carrying, displaying or using decorative weapons, impersonating weapons or other items which appear to be similar to weapons, in the event that this causes people to be alarmed or threatened. Since individuals who are disturbed or threatened by fear of possible retaliation or for other personal reasons do not want to be exposed to official procedures of the public authorities, the police cannot institute criminal proceedings. As a result, the police cannot effectively ensure respect for their dignity and the right to security and cannot prohibit or prevent those who carry out such acts. The proposal for the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace therefore provides that the so-called imitation of weapons is prohibited from wearing, displaying or using in a way that gives rise to the appearance of performing the tasks of officials or military personnel, unless they are used as props for performing events and the programme of the event is also specified. There is also a new offence concerning the use of masks, uniforms or clothing similar to official or military uniforms. The proposal provides that the wearing of those clothes shall be prohibited if an individual makes it appear to carry out the tasks of officials or military personnel, unless they are used as props for events in accordance with the programme of the event. Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I believe that you will support the proposed amendments to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace and the Law on the Control of the State Border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your explanation. Dear Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mr Robert Polnar, Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of the Parliament! In the past year, the government has already introduced two amendments to the legislative procedure under the urgent procedure relating to stricter treatment or sanctioning of self-organised groups of citizens who are intended to protect the state border. The proposal on the type of procedure has not been adopted, so today, in the context of the general debate, we will decide whether the draft laws are suitable for further consideration. In the Desus Group we supported the urgency of the procedure, and we also support the proposed provisions in both laws. The modern theoretical base of the concept of the State is contained in the definition of the country as a monopoly on the legitimate use of force. In modern countries, the right of the State and its authorities to use force is regulated by law. Repression is a legal possibility for the State and its authorities to use the means of coercion to maintain regulation and general order. This legal option cannot, under any circumstances, go into the hands of spontaneously organised groups of citizens. I must point out clearly and without any doubt that we support all the efforts of the Government and the competent ministries, in the first place the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, to prevent the organisation and functioning of paramilitary and para-police groups. The Government proposal for a new Law on State Border Control includes a prohibition on any conduct of an individual or group which, with a view to controlling the state border, is carried out in a manner similar to or similar to the conduct of police tasks in the exercise of State border control, or in a manner that impedes the police in the exercise of State border control. A fine of at least a thousand euros is provided for this infringement if an individual acts in a group and at least a thousand 500 euros. With amendments to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, the Government proposes that decorative weapons, weapons imitations, weapons intended for alarm or signalling and other items which appear to be similar to weapons should therefore be prohibited from carrying, displaying and using all these items in such a way that they appear to carry out the tasks of officials or military personnel. An exception shall apply if these items are used as props for various events. The envisaged fine for a violation of an individual is between 500 and thousands of euros. If the act is committed in a group, the individual shall be fined between thousands and 2,000 euros. Members of the Desus Group point out that the legislation currently in force on offences does not contain provisions for action against such groups. Motivation for the self-defence of citizens against illegal migration is, in general, possible to define in a completely contradictory view of reality. Part of the citizens are clear to the authorities that they do not understand the situation, that they have raised their hands from the more ambitious protection of the Slovenian southern and eastern borders and that they are satisfied with the current situation. Officials in power are, after this understanding, leaders in ignoring facts and in publishing optimistic forecasts without coverage. Reasonable optimism, though, does not disturb, but it must be measured. Anyway, after this observation, it's on the palm of his hand that power replaces reality with some better imaginary reality. If power can live in such a reality for at least some time, citizens cannot. Ignoring and denying reality is even more disturbing than living in it. In a bad reality, however, it is possible to live if there is hope when citizens see that the country is on the right track and that it is professionally done. However, in the Slovenian case, it should not be such a persistent rejection of the state in order to deal seriously with illegal migration, destimulate and depress itself to the extent that it is necessary to organise itself and to show an inconceivable degree of aggression. Ladies and gentlemen! Functional democracy is never spontaneous, it is always controlled, it has certain frameworks and limitations, so the state must react. The trend described above cannot be expected to dissipate from itself by ignoring it and not attributable to it. The current approach, which focuses on denial and benevolence, does not produce any results. Citizens, as the organizers of self-protection units symbolize, will be aggressive to the extent to which the state will tolerate their aggression. We must find that the state threshold of tolerance is unusually high here and now. Our task is to lower or lower this national threshold of tolerance by means of legal changes. It is true that existing criminal law provides for the sanctioning of the conduct of individuals or groups of individuals, provided that the latter protect against violence or are violent, publicly encourage hatred and intolerance. Such acts by individuals or groups of people, which need to be highlighted, may constitute crimes against public order and peace, crimes against humanity and crimes against the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia and its democratic constitutional order. However, it is important to stress that I am speaking on condition. So why the conditioner? For it is necessary to prove that the course of action was intended to endanger others or endanger the sovereignty of the State. In such cases, it is unnecessary to discuss the longevity of forecasting and criminal proceedings and the time needed to obtain a judicial epilogue. It's about years. Members of the Desus Group believe that it is the imperative of the State to monitor the functioning of self-organised groups and, above all, to sanction them. Slovenia is not in a state of war and is not militarily threatened. Its security is ensured through the implementation of security and defence tasks through the Police, the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Directorate for the Protection and Resolution of the Republic of Slovenia, which consists of professional and voluntary units. Members of the Desus Group will support the Government's proposal to complement legislation in a way that allows for decisive action against such types of challenging behaviour of individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. You have the floor, Mr. Victory Jelinčič Trinitarians, SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u30	Good afternoon! I see you're laughing, but you're laughing at the uniforms of the Slovenian Army. And this will now be banned, and it is not said that the Minister of the Interior will not have me arrested because I will go out in a uniform that reminds me of an army that can carry on hatred that can make heartburn in the country and so on. Unfortunately, the uniform got an ugly stain. The legacy of desertion, which our General Staff should regret and take away from it, also to the President of the State and Mr Erjavac, who demanded that professionals leave their jobs and go home. We've got a number of cowardly states, assholes and fugitives. What they used to say about Italians, unfortunately, is what we're wearing. But we'll ban everything. Given that we are now guarding the Schengen border against Croatia, we should support all those who want to wear such uniforms or similar uniforms in civilians and be proud of the Slovenian army. No, we have to ban it. Someone must have already instructed us to do this. Some kind of LGBT from Europe or something. How we appreciate the people who guard the Schengen border. And it's known. They spit on them. And it's not just the migrants, it's unfortunately our authority. And they were not provided with food, nor were they given with good food, nor were they given with water when they were guarding, but the migrants had everything. When migrants threw food, water at our officers and soldiers, and I don't know what else, ours weren't even allowed to defend themselves, because it's human rights of migrants. What about our rights? What about the rights of Slovenians and Slovenes? What about our citizens? It doesn't matter what it looks like. After 10 years of our 10-day war, the Austrians gave medals to those of their soldiers who were willing to defend Austria. They say städt read – we are ready, we stand ready. What about us? What are we going to give these people who are trying? To give them at least one birthmark, one medal to thank for spitting on them infected migrants. Soldiers are already infected. Health care is unaware of the danger of this, just as it was unaware of the danger when the entire Chinese bus left the infected city across Slovenia. Fortunately, there were no infections, but Croats reacted immediately. We didn't even know anything about it. That's another thing. Here he wants to hit on those who are willing to help the country not to invade the country of migrants just like that. Last year, some 15,000 registered people crossed the border, which means at least two to three times as unregistered. And we don't even know where most of the registered people are. We don't have any lists where anyone went, what anyone did, and so on. When we passed a law on the ID card in Slovenia, we were not allowed to write in those journals of the mother tongue and nationality. Why? Probably because we have in Slovenia in government bodies people who are not Slovenians who do not want to be Slovenians and who are everything else as if they were Slovenian citizens. This information that I've been talking about and we're not supposed to collect is collected by all of the OECD. At the OECD, you get all the information I've been talking about. We're not allowed to do that. Then who's collecting this information with us? I don't know. What illegal organizations? Maybe some NGOs that are very well-educated about what is happening in Slovenia, where it is the way to take migrants across borders, how to take them, what they need to be given, where and where to take them. They give them directions, money, positions to report. But it looks fine. Although this is about counter-national action. But the Ministry of the Interior will not sanction some organisations acting directly against our country. No, they'll be hunting the guards. A Vardo that works better than a whole bunch of government bodies. These are people, these are volunteers who are willing to control the border on their own costs and inform the police. Maybe this is wrong because we'd like to keep the police in the loop. Maybe there's a political option here that wants migrants to move across the border. In the end, they caught a high representative of the Social Democrats party, even a candidate in several elections, smuggling migrants. And no one's getting hurt. Perhaps these political parties are involved with some NGOs that give them a place in the media as much as they want them to spit on our country. The billions of euros we give each year to these NGOs are certainly at least 600 million for those who do harm and who act against the country, but nothing. The costs we have for these migrants are enormous. But these costs are also shared in health care, in the police, in other organs. The most interesting thing is that it's the police and the soldiers at least. Most of the money is for the care of migrants. For as soon as the migrant comes illegally across the border, he says asylum, and they bring him to a health care house, where he is examined, provided, and then asked him what he needs, what he wants, and then they take him to an asylum, where he is residing, and so on. In Western European countries, such migrants are first picked up for further contacts with their phones and money. These people don't come here naked and barefoot. These people come mostly with a lot of money. And they don't come with good intentions. They come to create sleep cells that will strike here in time. But we will ban, as it says here, “who wears masks, uniforms or clothing similar to the uniform of official or military persons, and with his behaviour, conduct, movement at a particular place or using equipment” and so on. You'll be punished. They will pay thousands to 2,000 euros in fines. An illegal migrant crossing the border gets the money. Where's the logic now? Where's the logic of our government getting into such stupid things? I want to know what that means. All those who have crossed the border are, in fact, in a crime or a crime. Without documents, they enter, and Europe is now even proposing that these people be given European documents. As it turns out, these people will all be born 1. 1. 2020 or 1. 1. 2015 and will declare themselves as minors and so on, Europe will give them this. The first of Europe is likely to be our Slovenia, which will give it to them with even greater joy. We don't have the technical resources necessary to control the border. We don't. Internal affairs have bought some drones, more than half of which are actually toys. Instead of buying professional drones that could really control at least a certain part of the border, no, we bought some toys because someone had some money in them. We bought a helicopter that we paid over 5 million more expensive than the company sold this helicopter. And this helicopter is in repair. Who's to blame here? Is it the guard's fault or is it the gentlemen sitting on the government or sitting on the government? I mean, the ministries. Who? Why is Europe not giving us money for helicopters because we are protecting the external border of Europe, the Schengen border? Why doesn't he give us at least three helicopters to control? Because on the Slovenian side, no one asks, no one asks. Because they don't hope to! Because we must be servants, humbly looking to the ground, for it says here that anyone with his conduct, his conduct, his movement gives a feeling that he is a man, that he is a grandfather, that he is willing to defend his country, is already a criminal. We're going to have to walk with our heads down and be completely quiet. We've come so far. Varda's a smart thing. After the United Nations declaration, everyone has the right to defend himself, his country, his family and his property. We're banning it. In fact, there are volunteers that the police should include in their units, give them a label and then use them as an information system. We'd have radio receivers and transmitters and let the police know where they are. We can't report to the military, because the military doesn't have any authority. A soldier can be struck, shot, slaughtered, and not defended. To a large extent, however, the police will, as we already know the cases, instead of defending their colleague who attacked him, simply turn into pants instead of taking down whoever did it. But we will punish the Slovenians and the Slovenes and those who are willing to defend the country. Masked clothes, like that, will be banned. And I'll be punished if I go down the road like this. But burke, nibi and so on, which is allowed in Slovenia. Someone with a hood over his head and cats around him can have five kilos of TNT or a C-4 or a screwdriver. Well, it's hard for a screwdriver, because it's already a historical weapon, and it's using a kalashnikov. But we're also going to ban that. The collectors won't even be allowed to have these things. But the terrorists will be able to have it. And we're going here, right-wing, and we're hitting on our own people! Awful. First, the surrender of the General Staff, the surrender of the President of the State, the surrender of the Minister of Defence, and now from the Ministry of the Interior of these matters, which prohibits everything. I think every army in the world is proud if their youth wears some kind of uniform, walks around with it and walks around. We will now stand in front of secondary schools and we will close the students who will have the upper part of the uniform, punish them with a thousand to 2,000 euros of punishment, and probably in the next step we will ban them from speaking Slovenian, because it will disturb them because they will say, "Yes, you know, we are multiculturals, we have to speak all the other languages, just not Slovenian, because Slovenians do not know who". I also want to know what's going on with these toilets. Men's bathrooms are being thrown out to the FDV, and the Faculty of Philosophy in Ljubljana is also heading this way. Yeah, what now, will we be forbidden to be men? What are we gonna do?Oh, my God! What's going on here?Oh, my God! What's going on here?Oh, my God! We go into one extreme, one total confusion, the only goal of which is the breakdown of the country, the destruction of the country, and then the sale of what's left. Various articles are mainly amended here, namely, penal articles, where the amount of the penalty has been increased since 2006 by the adopted law, which was totally stupid, but at the time the Slovenian National Party was not in Parliament when the amount of the penalty has risen by about 20%. Do we have a law in the country that will help people? Do we have only laws that will beat people in the head, in their wallets, to collect what little they have left? This is not the purpose of a government, this is not the purpose of a country, unless the country is already sold at the origin to someone and subordinated to some strange variants. I don't know how they're going to look at this, but I'd say what the migrants who come here say. With a smile on your mouth. And they will laugh, if you, fine, because we don't have to do anything, because the government already works for us, because the state of Slovenia works for us. Which is true. Which is true. What's interesting is the police are asking people to report everything they see, what they think is suspicious, and so on. There's even an anonymous registration number. Report it, and no one will know you reported it, so we'll take action. Aha? Then, when someone announces at the border that there is a horde of migrants across the border — what happens? Nothing. Because the police force is too small. The police are already missing within Slovenia, let alone have enough of them there. And drugs, crime, anything. The rapes committed by migrants are not punishable. Let them go home, and probably with some other direction to go, so that they can have "fine". And this is to be the country? Once again, I say we have to get the guards inside as an auxiliary information formation. It's the only solution, the only solution, because there's a lot that can happen. According to the Weapons Act, which is also stupid across borders, illegal weapons of the Slovenian population have already begun. If we remember, we are not the military, not the police, the Slovenian people have defended and brought Slovenia into independence. The police and the military were marginal cases that took part in the rebellion of the Slovenian people. Perhaps that is exactly what the current government is afraid of so that people might do what the state should do and what the state does not do. The country is unable even to give those people who were on the border one medal, an honor to tell someone, "Yes, I am grateful that you have stood on the border and defended and protected the rest of the Slovenian people in your power." They don't give a fuck! Fuck's gonna buy them helicopters, and the difference from 8 million 700 to 15, 16 million in their pocket. And when you ask how that's possible, there's a million excuses. It doesn't even make sense to talk. It's a million excuses. It's nobody's fault. Cops aren't well-maintained. The police are understaffed and should use all possible resources to defend our country. It'll probably be illegal for firefighters to wear uniforms. The question is whether firefighters will be allowed to fire, for example, in Montenegro, because they will immediately say gentlemen, “Yes, some individuals who behave and walk and move like soldiers, have uniforms, have a strange pen in their hands, we do not know what they are”. Are we going to ban that, too? And then the police will come and grab them. Before they know they're firefighters, it'll take some time. Meanwhile, 200, 300 migrants will wave like this as they walk by and go to the center of Slovenia. Robbing, burning, destroying, raping, that's what our media is hiding. They don't make this information public. Unfortunately, our public is also quiet. Instead of raising a pig like that, it's quiet. One would say that the media could also devote more space to such matters. Except for some rare media reporting this. I don't know what to say. After all, one wonders whether it makes sense to speak here, for so many nonsensees, so many blows by his own people as this government can or does not know if it is or not anymore or how it is, this government knows, I don't know if it can take them. I don't know if any other country beats people like that. Of course, Germany, Sweden and these countries, which are going to the multiculture variant, do so. But these countries will die. These countries are falling apart and in these countries we can expect a revolution of people. We're getting close to that. This revolt of men will not be gentle. And it's right not to be gentle, because you can't raise a foreigner in your own country if you don't count on this alien growing up and eating you. That's right, one rotten apple in a basket, rotting all the apples. And we're on it. We didn't have one apple rotting in our house. We've had half a basket rot. If we don't clean this up, we'll all rot. Even those who care little about what is happening to our people today. There was now a debate on the need to introduce military service. Absolutely. Absolutely. The government and certain media lie when they measure people's thinking about it and say that 60% of people are against being introduced. That's not true! Non-governmental organisations, LGBT organisations and similar gatherings are set up against this. Most of the normal people in Slovenia are for this, because our young population has been dilute. It's one kiss, another kiss, three kisses, maybe between ten, you find one man. Maybe. I'd even say there's more tough girls between women than men. They have come so far, with the purpose and under the command of the European Union, that it does not care what is happening within any country, only that they can benefit from it and that they can spread their deviantity to all the ends of the world. Thank God, we have countries here that don't fit in. This is the Multi-urban Group, this is Russia, and as long as they want and are normal in accordance with natural principles, we will have so little chance to get out of this shit. But on the other hand, we have a whole bunch of people who care little about what they care about and who only think about where to make a profit. I don't know what's gonna happen. I'm sure it's not a good thing. If I go any further in this change of law, one more thing is interesting. It says: "For offences under this law, a fine may also be imposed in a swift procedure in an amount higher than the minimum prescribed fine laid down by this law." In short, if anyone doesn't like you, he'll be able to take the punishment he thinks he will. And where are you going to complain? 27a. That's what the article says. And that's it. We take people, people can't live, people don't have food, they don't have electricity, they don't have bills, but it doesn't matter. However, it will happen as now that the state prosecutor in Kršek released two migrants, they caused a traffic accident and one carjacked the car to the end. And then – "go home well, he'll buy his own car and we'll do it somehow." This is the protection of the Slovenian state and the protection of the Slovenian border? This is not the protection of the Slovenian border. The border is substantially protected by Croatia, the Slovenian border, as protected by us. The Italians install cameras and thermocams on the border, the Austrians have the border closed, the Bulgarians fire at the border and therefore the migrants do not go to Bulgaria. We've got doors open and we're letting them go, come on, welcome. Now the only thing that happened was that they translated from German into Slovenian. I said before that the basic law is stupid because it says, let's just say you can't argue with anyone, because if you're fighting, you've already committed a crime. If you're a little louder, you've already committed a crime. If you throw anything back at anyone, you've already committed a crime. If you're fighting someone, they've both committed a crime. Yeah, where are we? We are destroying the essence of the Slovenian people. Up there, young people are now coming in, and I hope that they will hear something, and that they will go to the next elections, and that they will not be subject to these LGBT variants, which the government is spreading over the long and long term. And that boys and girls will be girls. If not otherwise, let them look between their legs, what they have there, and what nature has given them. Not what different FDVs will give them or the Faculty of Philosophy. For it is a deliberate destruction of the Slovenian nation. We can't let that happen. We can't let that happen. And I cannot expect that from the vast majority of people here today in Parliament. It can be from young people if they think carefully. If they watch and if they want to have a future in Slovenia. I'm afraid the young are leaving. The most popular, the most popular, the most working and the best are going abroad. What's left? I don't know. Cerar started by importing Shiptarje into Slovenia and now we have all the areas where Slovenian is no longer spoken, because houses are being bought, first one and then neighbouring, and then in the countryside. We already have enclaves where Albanian is spoken and the Slovenians are gone. But this does not belong to the protection of the state – no, no, this is what I know, these are human rights. One comes first and because, according to the laws of the European Union, we have to unite families, then his wife comes after him, and three children from the first wife, and the other wife from five children, and the old mother from the uncle, and the uncle from the brother, I don't know what else. And it's spreading. Then we see in the healthcare home in Slovenska Bistrica in Albanian a instructions on how to fight smallpox. But we have a law on the Slovenian language and we have laws that require everything to happen in the Slovenian language. But no, we'll bring them in and we'll kneel. In Slovenia, there were also requirements to introduce Albanian into primary and secondary schools. Where did you see that? Where did you see that? But such places are more, it is not only Slovenska Bistrica, Kranj, Velenje, Tržič, New city, not to mention. This is happening in our country. And we'll ban someone from coming in in uniform and being locked up. Maybe I'll be out there waiting for the gendarmes and I'll be taken prisoner in front of a judge who'll charge me 4 to 5,000 euros in fines for wearing a Slovenian uniform. I don't know, maybe someone wouldn't be upset if they wore a white-garde dress, because now we're in this trend, unfortunately the only one in the world. We will not support these laws. There's no way we're supporting the law we're discussing, neither one nor the other. Both laws point to the capitulation of the Slovenian state in front of the Slovenian people, pointing to the government's sympathy with the worship of the European Union, which does not explicitly require of us. But let's think about it, Slovenians, and do something to make us happy. And then our gentlemen and gentlemen in the government structure are going to tighten it all up, and they're going to screw it up, and we're going to get to Brussels without worrying, and we're going to hit the Slovenians a little bit, as far as you're concerned. And that's what's happening. Our people are quiet. This generation, intermediate, is a kilowatt generation. Unfortunately, this kilowatt generation results in the continuation of the kilowatt generation and listens to our youth instill this weightiness. But I hope they won't accept this, that you'll look at the world wisely. The world is not an easy matter. And the country, once you have it, you hold it, don't sell it. Our country is selling its country. They've already sold the country, they've stolen it, they've robbed it almost to the bone, there's still a little bit left, they're going to steal it soon, and we've got a country left. But the country is not only a language but a Slovenian song, as the Roman Catholic Church wants to say. The country is a state and the Slovenians have statehood. Our statehood began with Quarantine, which is now being denied by Slovenian historians. Croatians, however, speak in their books that it is "Croatian Quarantine". So far have our professors, our historians, our kilowatts, our traitors and our cowards. And this state of ours has drifted across Slovenian lands. Unfortunately, we were killed by Celjsky, so he had no male progeny to inherit this land, so the Habsburgs inherited them. But they also know in Austria that these are Slovenian heritage countries. They do not know this in Slovenia because it is forbidden to say this in Slovenia. In Slovenia we must not talk about the statehood of Slovenian countries. It must not be said that we did not celebrate this year's 100th anniversary of the University of Ljubljana, the Slovenian University. The higher education in Ljubljana was 400 years earlier. Croatia celebrates about 400 years of its higher education study, we do not hope in Slovenia, but we are older than them, but we do not hope, we celebrate when King Alexander came, the unifier first, to Ljubljana and named after him this university. But where did they put the university? They gave the University to the National Assembly of the Land of Kranjska, the Parliament of the Land of Kranjska, to cut off the state bit for the Slovenes. And that's been going on ever since. In 1918, the evaluation and destruction of Slovenia began, which then continued after the end of World War I, when they administratively divided the country, and this continues today, when most of our own, including Members, do not understand what state is, does not understand what state attributes are and does not understand that without this own country there will be no state. Unfortunately, they don't understand it in the ministries either. Not even at the Ministry of the Interior. Maybe at least there. In fact, there is still quite a lot of militia personnel there, which was the world of the former common country, and I, too, could say that it was much more orderly and much more consistent than today's Slovenia. In the former country, we also had an article on treason and treason in the criminal code. Today, the Slovenian Penal Code does not contain these articles. It is not intended that some would have had the opportunity to have their own land before, but that they could have their own land by now. I'm just appealing to you, to young people up there who are sitting, thinking and being conscious of Slovenians and Slovenes. Not to be subjected to a variety of political sayings about not knowing what else, not to be subjected to different variants of a multiculture, how good it will be, and not to believe that migrants will bring you something good. They'll bring you diseases we don't know, they'll bring you rapes, they'll bring you murders, they'll bring you everything we should be afraid of. Once again, we will not support one marriage or another.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I ask all of you to maintain a culture of speech and not sow hatred with our speech. That's our job.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u32	President, stop talking nonsense.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u33	You don't have a word, Mr. Ambassador. Once again, I ask that we conduct ourselves in the National Assembly as it does in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u34	I'm acting fine according to the Slovenian being.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u35	Words are not to be taken. That's how I teach the word "magic." Branku Grims, SDS task force. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u36	First of all, I'd like to say a nice hello to everyone! A special greeting also to young people who accompany us and a very special greeting to all who love our homeland of Slovenia. It was a nice day yesterday. But I don't know if you were all aware of the absurdity of the moment. The only really state-owned move for the whole of Slovenia that has already failed the government of Marjan Šarc was to admit its incompetence and step down. One of the proofs is what is before us today, both marriages for which it is difficult to find a good word. What was the red thread of the government of Marjana Sharca all along its existence? The fact that the government of Marjana Sharca has demonstrated its development and security impotence every minute of every day with every measure. You know, it was about time she left. I'm afraid a year and a half too late. Ronald Reagan once said that a country unable to defend its borders, effectively defend its borders, protect its citizens and citizens, does not really exist. There is not even an international community capable of doing so. Under these criteria, we all know that Slovenia and, if you like, the whole European Union are in great trouble. Mass migration is taking place daily. All those who believed after that first wave that this would be settled, now you could see how right I was when I argued that it hadn't even started for Slovenia. Today, numbers are unforgivable — more than 16,000 illegal migrants entered Slovenia illegally last year. So many were intercepted, it was estimated that there were three to ten times as many people across the Slovenian border without being recorded or returned to where they came from. It is even worse that Slovenia has become a target country for illegal migration, as evidenced by information that we almost would not believe. But this information, ladies and gentlemen, has been published by the OECD and some other international institutions. This is information that according to the number of applications for asylum of illegal migrants, Slovenia overcame Germany and France in last year. This means that someone is rolling all the problems, especially security, economic, social, all the other weight of illegal migration to Slovenia. Instead of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia doing everything at this time of its existence to effectively protect the Slovenian borders, and I always say that the Slovenian army and the police could effectively protect the Slovenian borders if the ruling coalition gave them the right powers. But the government and her coalition are making a fool of each other. They send the Slovenian army to the Slovenian border without giving it any authority. Boys who are educated and highly trained there can observe and possibly alert them to what they've seen. However, they must not react in any way – they must not stop anyone, they must not protect Slovenia, the Slovenian borders, they must not do what they are only trained to do and what they want to do. That's why they went into the army because they're patriots. But politics doesn't let them. In fact, the government of Marjan Šarc has been funding the LGTB ideology of well-founded NGOs at all times, abundantly, in hundreds of millions of euros – that is, those who promote illegal migration. In this way, the government of Marjan Šarca has in fact promoted illegal migration, rather than restricting, through the financing of the LGTB ideology of well-founded non-governmental organisations. In this way, Slovenia and Slovenia, irresponsibly, emphatically additionally exposed Slovenia and Slovenia to the dangers posed by these illegal migrations. At that time, the government has taken the initiative to raise the so-called global agreement on safe, orderly and legal migration behind the back of citizens and citizens, contrary to the crystal clear law on external matters. The only one in this environment. The only one. Here in this House, however, she pretended that if she did not do so, Slovenia would become a lonely island because everyone wanted to. Now really Slovenia is a lonely island and in the eyes of illegal migrants, who are top-paid, there are no refugees, it drives money to the capitalists or financial speculators of Soros, but of course Arab money. In their eyes, Slovenia is a promised land. They're all equipped with new iPhones. It's always interesting to lose their personal documents, lose their families, but never lose their new iPhone. Isn't that interesting? Who's coming? Fugitives? Whoever says that is a liar, I make it public that he's a liar. In the last period, only and exclusively illegal migrants, and this is well organised, are organised by some secret services, which are linked to the media, the network, the iPhones and everything you invent, and which have here a fifth column in the form of those non-governments that this government pays and thus even boasts on its websites. They equip them with information, plans, equipment waiting here. When they are once in Slovenia, they help them to stall procedures, which Slovenia and Slovenians are extremely expensive to pay. This is the real situation facing Slovenia. At the same meeting, at which the Government proposes to prosecute those – about guards a little later – who could sometimes try to defend Slovenia or wish to exercise the right to self-defence, which is a fundamental human right, if anyone does not know it, will reject proposals aimed at tightening asylum legislation and some other things that all neighbouring countries have done, only Slovenia does not. Then we wonder if any illegal migrant who is asked where he wants to go in Bosnia says: “Ou, Slovenia, Slovenia!” Yes, of course, because paid activists go down, they are directed, they explain everything to them, and the Slovenians and Slovenians as taxpayers because of the government, the failed government as it was, and because of its coalition we pay for it all. As far as the guard is concerned, the situation is very interesting. If you want to hide your own incompetence, the tactic of the Slovenian failed government of Marjan Šarc, by the way, is to divert attention to 70 years of age. And then you make up your guard. What exactly are guards? Since I am sure that someone else will find himself today who will say something clever about the topic of right extremism, I would first quote you Viljko Bruce, the call for NOB values fighters to support Andrej Šiška as president: "I call you because Andrej Šiško and his values are more consistent with NOB and more dedicated to NOB than all the others who are offered to us. And in order to realize all of this, I invite you all to vote for Andre Šiška." This was in the last election campaign when Andrei Shisko was the candidate for president of the state. So much for someone talking about some right-wing extremists or something. Wilko Bruce said this very nicely, he said: “With this red star that I have on my forehead, I invite you to vote for Andrei Šiška, because he is more devoted to these values”, so the red star, “like everyone else.” So much so that it'll be clear where the guards belong if there's no one else. Who's the extremist, anyway? There are also many problems in Slovenia. It is the extreme one who is ready to achieve his political goals to cut off violence. This is a definition that applies all over the world. Who is this in Slovenia? It was very nice to see you once. This was on Kotnikov in Ljubljana. On the one hand, the left-wing antifaiths stood with anything in their hands, placed in the crowd control cordon, as it is called, say, they were also trained, they knew what they were doing, they were ready to use force against their own nation for the benefit of foreigners, and on the other hand they were Slovenians and Slovenes, and I do not know what kind of horsemen and all turned against these Slovenes and Slovenians who carried Slovenian flags, sang songs and read the Zdravica. Who is the extremist here, ladies and gentlemen? There are no right-wing extremists in Slovenia, and as many left-wing extremists as you want. Some also sit in this House, by this definition. For after those in the first place with any in hand, they were those who were their immediate supporters, some from the Left, and Tanya Fajon from behind, and Milan Kučan from behind, and the president of the school union, and so on and so forth. Let the man get his hair up! Tell me who you're hanging out with, and I'll tell you who you are. Besides, is this new in Slovenia? When Wilko Bruce called for support for Mr Šiška, because he is more consistent with the values of the revolution – the values of the revolution lie in six hundred pits after Slovenia, unburied. Even today, children who have been brutally killed by partisans in the Iga must not be buried at the Zalah cemetery in Ljubljana, as babies deserve, people of God. But they're fighting publicly, and Jankovic won't let it happen, and Kučan won't let it happen. In any case, it's a disgrace to everyone. But it says a lot about who is who in Slovenia. Just as much as this legislation says. Instead of persecuting those who illegally invade us, this is an invasion of the territory of the democratic state of Slovenia, they are pursuing those who are trying to organize themselves in order to protect themselves. Although self-defense, self-defence, I say again, is a fundamental human right based on the fundamental international instruments governing this area. If you don't believe them, go, brother. By the way, read more about constitutional law. So why did the government use these guards and blow them up like I don't know how important they are? Yeah, because it's obviously something that's close to them. With the red star on the forehead, with the values of NOB is something that is manageable. They may also have hoped that someone would fall out of Parliament at the next election, but they wanted to raise this artificially in order to gain something similar or something even more manageable than this moment. This, in my opinion, was the goal. Otherwise, a person simply cannot explain it to himself. It is even more interesting that there has been a lot of information about the fact that there are some who have been convicted criminals, and also some who have been paid by members of the criminal police. So in the end, you don't know if the government is organizing or persecuting it if any of this is true. But I can't judge that, and I can't even examine it because I'm not President of KNOVS anymore. Otherwise, believe me, I would have dealt with this a long time ago when it first appeared that attention had been diverted from the undemocratic issuance of voters on the basis of which even such a government as it was formed. That was the first time these guards actually showed up. Second, when it turned out that the Slovenian borders were completely unprotected, they shouted over everything that lays and goes – over 16,000 intercepted, the people of God. This is according to the official estimates you have available. But there are several times as many who have not been recorded and crossed the Slovenian border. How many of these have been processed, punished? Probably nothing. I know that some tasks have been given, but none of these men have been punished in the end, and thousands of empty tasks remain, so they are obviously their own purpose. What is worse, not only is not allowed by the government and the ruling coalition of Slovenian military and Slovenian police to effectively secure the Slovenian border, which is known if there are even worse things to do, how to avenge them, but it is not obvious that the entire system of justice will protect Slovenian citizens and citizens. And we should talk about it, ladies and gentlemen. Do you even know what is happening under this government in the system of Slovenian justice? Not because of the various guards, but because of the illegal migrants who were directly caught in the crime, they were not even detained. On the contrary. They put them in a nice asylum home, fill up their iPhones a little bit more so that they can go on a quiet journey abroad and then stop the prosecution by reasoning that the prosecution would be disproportionate to the crime committed. But the crime committed is that two of them stole Audi's personal car, caused a serious traffic accident, smashed it, so it's said, at least two obvious crimes – the theft of the vehicle and the destruction of other things, and not in some material value, but it's an Audi brand What's the signal here? [[…]] Here is a crystal clear signal from the government that is responsible for this area as all other areas of life, the Justice Department and the ruling coalitions: illegal migrants can do whatever they want, take your car, break it down, steal you, rob you, nothing will happen to them. No one will protect you. Slovenians and Slovenes will not be protected. We only protect foreigners. That's a signal anyone can get out of this. And believe that illegal migrants were able to read it very well, and Slovenians and Slovenians understand it very clearly. Such a government is not worth anything. Such a government is acting contrary to constitutional principles. Where is the principle of equality before the law to let go of everything else at this point? Where is the principle of equality before marriage? Whatever you, whoever's in the coalition, take your neighbor's car and kill yourself and we'll see how it ends. Will the charges against you be dropped because they will say that this is a negligible crime, so that it would be disproportionate then to persecute the one who did it? First, of course, you let him go to a home, that he can go abroad, that he can escape, that he can be more difficult to reach, and then you're not even chasing him anymore. Although, by the way, in Europe, as we all know, there is a very good system of persecution and international tyranny and so on, and this is not a question at all. If that's what you want. Desires, ladies and gentlemen, is the problem! Here, not only does he want to do things for illegal migrants, in fact, criminals, but he obviously wants to hide it from the public. That's why there was talk of hate speech. You have already heard that word in this hall today. What about hate speech, ladies and gentlemen of law? It's not defined, it doesn't even exist. The hate speech is a flossule with which leftists have been fighting the truth for many years, and then they hide it for a variety of expressions. The hate speech is really all that truth that bothers left-wing people. That's the definition of hate speech by removing all those big words. Then it happens that an illegal migrant comes out of prison and, instead of sending him from where he came from, was previously rejected after reporting to the media his request for asylum, it is said that he should have been abroad long ago, but not. Leave it in Slovenia. It is strange that it has not yet been brought to the Slovenian Parliament to be slightly accepted by the President of Parliament and by some who like to do so. And he used this to rape two Slovenian girls, at least one of them was underage. In one case, there was also severe knife violence. Who's responsible for this? I claim that those on the government, ladies and gentlemen, and those as officials who have abandoned their duties. It's not just political, it's criminal liability. But what's even more frightening about this story? He's hiding this information. When the matter finally begins to unfold, however, it turns out that this migrant was legally convicted and had been in prison for two years. When I ask the Government who will be responsible for not being sent immediately after the suspension of the sentence, from where it came from, because it should have been long ago after all the available information, the Government replied that it had not been sentenced to a foreign penalty of expulsion. Wait, like that's the only reason or the only way you can get someone out of the country. Are you kidding me? From who? From the people, from their safety? With these laws that are before us today, you are certainly making a fool of ordinary citizens and citizens. Instead of persecuting criminals, you protect them and turn against your own citizens and citizens. What else has turned out to be the case with this illegal migrant? In the end, even this crime turned out to be an extremely violent robbery by two women, one being thrown on the ground and has lasting consequences — that he had been convicted before, but on probation for other crimes. But none of these judgments can be fully obtained in order to be presented to the public. Even journalist Peter Jančič couldn't get them despite the demands. Mrs. Prelesnikov, who was once the secretary-general in this Parliament, today is supposed to protect information as an information officer, replied: “Yes, because the information system of justice does not allow these judgments to be found.” If that's true, then the secretary should be replaced immediately. Well, she did fall with the whole government, which failed completely. But of course that's not true. It's a joke from people. This is said to be the case, all institutions, the judiciary, the information officer, everyone makes a fool of Slovenian citizens and citizens on schedule, systematically for the benefit of foreigners. This is the real situation we face today in Slovenia. And then the government suggests that action should be taken against those who wear children's toys and impersonate a uniform. Look, I've only seen dozens of events in recent years, one last time in Dražgoša, where people in real uniforms paraded with real weapons, which, by the way, is prohibited under current legislation. Those who do not know this are also prohibited from carrying disabled weapons under the current legislation, to public events where more people are being gathered and so on. Did the police take action? No, no, no. Was the minister responsible for this? No, no, no. Was he warned? Oh, yes, he was, but many times. Did that upset people? Believe that the gathering of men who killed animals after the war and even killed young girls alive there in the pit of the Devil, and they carry weapons, certainly disturbs all those relatives who are still alive from that period, and also others. So when you propose such a law, let’s first stop making a fool of yourself, and think a little about what you’re doing. Even when Veljko Bruce praised Mr Šiška, there were many of them with uniforms and weapons around there. Of course, that doesn't lead anywhere. Here you will have to finally have the same criteria for all and return to the starting point required by the Slovenian Constitution. This is said to apply without exception to all and to all in the same way. If someone does something illegal and it is found to be done, it must be processed, for which a person must be held accountable and punished. If someone broke into the border illegally, they'll send him where he came from. Then an appropriate procedure shall be carried out. This procedure is unacceptable to delay at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers and it is necessary to stop financing all those who, in LGTB's ideologies justified, non-governmental organisations that do not work other than to speed up the incursions on the Republic of Slovenia and then to say very clearly and very much that they are illegal migrants, all of whom are mass-abuses of the right to asylum, which is what the former interior minister Mrs Györköseva has to say that they are no longer being financed. And it's all over, and it's right now. People should be allowed to defend themselves if the state is unable to do so. Why were these guards actually used by the government? Because I think it's all a media and government structure together. Because of the fact that there really is no serious self-organization of people who are at risk. If every day you have dozens of or hundreds of illegal migrants under a cannon window, of course, alone to fight capable men, those who show pictures of women and children today, it is better not to comment on this in Slovenian circumstances, these are soldiers who are coming. That's what Erdoggan said, the mosques are our fortresses, the domes of our helmets, the believers are our army. And their service, believe it or not, is still quite a part of this story. And he's letting go pretty now, he's forcing Europe with these people, and he's cashing money, but this curtain is no longer working well, you all know, because it has a different computer, and he has internal policy problems showing that he is the master of Europe for his inner audience. Someone who gets blackmailed once will always be blackmailed, ladies and gentlemen. First and foremost, the state should be aware that the right, the fundamental right of every Slovenian, every Slovenian, every Slovenian child to live safely. Everyone has the right to personal integrity, and this is due as a first and unconditional measure to carry out any government to the greatest extent possible, but not to finance NGOs, to send soldiers to the border without authorization, to ensure that those who expose their health and life are not adequately paid to continue to protect Slovenia and all of us in such situations. And believe me, I really do say thank you very much. Only I would like to allow them to actually do it effectively, because these people are capable of it, they want it, and many others could have it if they had pursued the right policy. But such laws, such as those before us today, certainly do not lead in this direction, but completely elsewhere, because this is not in the interest of this government. What do leftists really want? Leftists on purpose pay NGOs, on LGBT's ideology justified NGOs to go down, recruit, accelerate the beating of illegal migrants into Slovenia and then delay them to stay here as long as possible and to cost as much as possible. Why? Because in the long run, they, the leftists, see in these people their future voters, and in the short run, money. For all the story of the so-called refugees is certainly seductive. There are no refugees. That's all I've been saying all these years without exception, I've never agreed to have any fugitives here. What kind of fugitives? We had refugees, yes, when they were from the former Yugoslavia, women, mothers with children, older. There were 72 thousand of them, we received them nicely, and then the vast majority went very quickly to where they came from, because they were really refugees. What is coming today, however, is capable of fighting and trained by healthy men, a vast majority between the ages of 18 and 40, virtually all from countries where there is no war. But from which countries are the most illegal migrants who break into Slovenia? Do I list them? You all know each other well. Pakistan, then everything from Morocco to, if you want, Egypt, but I don't know which countries at this point, because things are changing a little bit, Algeria, let's say. Where are the great wars that would have driven these crowds? As with the Syrians, we all know, in ship's containers, they were carrying copies, or at that time they were original because the country had fallen apart, their documents and then sold them through Turkey, and it is known that they were all Syrians. And that's why everyone's birthday is on the 1st. 1. and similar, and that is why these documents get lost very quickly when some serious control is needed. The document itself is original, but then it's written a little bit like that at home. Of course, these people do not have anything to do with their escape; even more nonsense is that they run from climate change. Yeah, sure, sure. It's a bargaining money. Do you know that they found a lot of people who also had €300,000 in cash? You go with 300,000 Euros of cash here across the border and you'll see what happens to you. And you're EU citizens. However, in certain parts of this story, almost everyone had a few small sums. There are also those who don't have that much in common, but don't say they're some poor people, and I don't know what they are. Ask yourself, too, what kind of people are coming if they leave their families – like crying out the Ljubljana barber Ahmad Shami for their own declaration – where there is a war where fighting is raging, where they should live, and leave their children and their wife there instead of bringing them with them or protecting them with all the means available to them. Ask yourself what these people are like, what does Europe import, what do you import? Let's ask ourselves that, after the human wage. Maybe you'll have a little bit of a meltdown. The problem of what Europe is really doing is quite different. It's a problem of radical Islamisation of Europe. Islam is being radicalized around the world, and I regret to say that it is Erdoggan, with whom Europe is so fond of talking, who has probably helped the most because it has completely destroyed the secular heritage of Turkey. Because for Atatürk, radical Islam was a decomposing body. You have his expression on the Internet. You must be aware that sharia with a modern concept of law is completely incompatible with human rights. These people who are coming, they're from radical Islam and they feel committed to Sharia. What's more, they're setting up Sharia here, on our soil, the goal. Which is personally frightening to me, but I have witnessed it myself, there are discussions with us where constitutional lawyers, supreme judges, university professors are involved, and this is the most prominent where they are deadly discussing how to effectively involve Sharia law in the trials of our courts. Excuse me? The inclusion of Sharia law, ladies and gentlemen, in the work of the courts means the total negation of the rule of law and modern law after all we know. But I also tell him myself in the face that he's lying. It's absolutely impossible for these two to have a united relationship. As long as the law is the same for all, and as long as the regulation has to be made public before it enters into force, and as long as the legal order and the constitutional order of the State are in force, Sharia law cannot have any room here, certainly not in the Slovenian courts. Then, if this is discussed, I am not surprised that they are giving Slovenian justice under the leadership of Minister Katičeva of the SD signal to illegal migrants: steal, pillage – as their predecessors once did after World War II – take ownership of Slovenian citizens and citizens, destroy it, nothing will happen to you, we will allow you to leave peacefully and then we will stop the matter from being a problem. That's unacceptable! It's a crime on its own. This is the suspension of the duty of acting and the negligence of the responsible person. In the Penal Code, you have articles that clearly define this, only now is who's going to follow someone here. Katič's own self certainly not, but the others responsible for the government, not in his coalition, but all those who are subordinate to them, because then it's like a dog chasing its tail that never gets caught. But that's unacceptable. All I hope is that people are watching this and that they understand. Then what's going on? There is a gradual radical Islamisation of Europe, including in Slovenia. Since I was President of Knovs, I have warned that the cells of radical Islam have developed in Slovenia, from Jessenic, Ljubljana, Celje, Maribor to New City, I can also list if you like. When this combines with those who are trained to fight with war experiences, it creates the most dangerous combination, which in the past led, for example, to Bataclan, to a monstrous slaughter, where, as it hides in Slovenia from the public, what illegal migrants bring, it hides that people there not only killed themselves, but also horribly tortured that women cut themselves there, and that I don't say anything else because I don't know if they would believe me. But you have all this in official reports, but they're hiding from the public. What is the problem of radical Islamization? For radical Islam, the world is divided into two spaces: it is a world of peace, which is only a world of radical Islam, and with everything else they are at war; everything else is a world of war. They are with Europe, with all of you, even with you who support them, in war. Even if they're covering it up today. They even have a special term for it. This is how they behave, and they will, believe it or not. But here we talk about the religion of peace, and for force it is suppressed by all those who warn of this danger. There are currents within Islam itself, such as in Indonesia, that warn how important this is to change it. And why doesn't it change? The problem is that radical Islamists are a billion and a half. Not to mix this with some of our Bosniaks, who are a few million. And then people naively imagine, if I know the Bosniaks – and they're great, I also have some colleagues there – then everyone is fine. Yeah, sure, you guys go down a little once! I lived there, too, and I saw something. When you see someone beating a woman with a metre of pollen in a burka, you hear them breaking bones, and you want to help, but you can't because they're two with guns in their hands and they point him at you, and then you ask yourself where you live. This is totally incomprehensible for Europe. But would you believe that this happened in Turkey? I know. I was in Turkey a few years ago. On a side street in Istanbul, which is the most European part of Turkey. To imagine how things have changed and how the world is changing. That's what we should be talking about today. That's a security challenge. This is the worst security challenge Europe has ever faced since the end of World War II. This challenge is here and now. For if radical Islam prevails, Europe will no longer be Europe. Europe today is Europe, with European civilisation, with a consistent protection of human rights, with everything it is, just because it has remained a Christian Europe and fought Islam with the military when it broke through. Also in Sisak, Slovenia and Slovenians, Kranjci, said that they had defeated the Turkish army and defended Europe. It would be time for us to learn something from history. This path, the well-respected minister you picked up here, is completely wrong. First you must do your job, first you must be able to protect the state of Slovenia, protect the border, protect every resident, close the border for illegal migration to the greatest extent possible, only then you can go see what everyone else is doing. But to divert attention from what is a real and real danger to some parade of people who are just raising attention, you're helping them because it's more nice not to see what's going on back there. Now you have two mechanisms, one is that, the sun will burn us up, and everyone up there can't see the migrants walking in front of their noses, but you'll say, look, those guards there are paraded to watch everyone there, so they won't see the migrants walking across the border. It's not going anywhere. First, the government must take care of all that the Constitution and the laws dictate. All these years, I have advocated only one thing — that we should respect the rule of law in a consistent manner. If we respected the rule of law in the European Union as a whole, headed by a Dublin agreement, for all equally, for all without exception, if we respected the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, none of what happened could have happened at all. But things were going in the wrong direction under your government, and now we are practically surrounded by countries that are trying to protect ourselves. Austria will no longer accept refugees, nor within the framework of the European programmes anymore, this has been said publicly, nor has the new government, if anyone thought otherwise, made a serious mistake. Thus, the only hope remains to start organizing ourselves, to rely on our forces in Slovenia, of course in a legitimate way, and to find friends abroad where we actually have them, especially in the Visegrad Group, which you are ashamed of, and sometimes some of you are voting against and so on. It's the only place where we have real friends in these situations in Europe. Europe is no longer able to unify itself on this issue. Why? Since some countries already have so many migrants that they simply can no longer take certain measures, France, Germany to a large extent, Britain. How they solve this problem, I don't even want to think because they won't. How this is going to end, one way or another, you can't do it in a good way, and you think what you want. Slovenia is still in an area where it can easily protect its borders, where it can easily take care of the security of citizens and citizens, but it has to support itself, not wait for what Europe will do, but I do not know what European – nothing will do about it. Europe, if this goes on, believe me, it won't be a very long time, which is a shame, because Slovenia needs Europe because it is an export country. But these things are so powerful, they tear apart. Prior to any such adoption, security must be taken care of. This is a responsibility, Mr Minister, first of all you and the governments, even if it is scientific, and it has been all this time, but it will remain this task to come. And it will have to be carried out in one way or another, not waiting for someone else to do it instead of Slovenia. But what's more, you're dealing with trying to divert your opinion to cover up the proceedings. Because it's actually a government policy. If you didn't, you would have acted. If a court that has an article in its constitution that is required to ensure the public administration of the judgment and the public declaration of the judgment does not, in a case which has not been closed to the public, say either, what was the verdict or it does not want – I mean, this exception, when something can be closed to the public in the court, lays down the law and these exceptions are very tightly written. [[…]] This is when you have, say, younger minors and similar to the victims, but not if these two illegal migrants are taking a car or committing a serious crime of robbery, including bodily harm, two women attacking or migrant, and then hiding it. And then he hides behind that he's been convicted before. So this is planned, and the government is responsible for it. The government should act if this is not its policy. If not, however, it is an objective fact that this has become its policy. This is similar to the infamous disgrace afforded by the Secretary of State, who was at the Ministry of Education, for Christmas. The government did not act. This objectively led to the responsibility of the entire government and its coalition, despite the fact that the government has now fallen apart. Now you're all responsible for not taking action. The same is true here, in cases of illegal migration – if no action is taken, you are liable if it is permitted that the court intentionally hides things from the public, if things are hidden, you are responsible. If this is a policy in those media that are paid out of public money, you are also responsible in the part where it is the responsibility of the government. The law here is crystal clear. Each area of social life is the responsibility of the Government in that part that falls under its jurisdiction, and that minister whose individual actions fall within the purview of it. For this reason, Mr Minister, the SDS will not, of course, support such a law. For as long as the Government pays on LGBT's ideology justified NGOs to speed up the intrusion of illegal migrants into Slovenia and to delay procedures then in Slovenia, what the Slovenians are paying dearly, thereby also reducing the safety of all Slovenes and Slovenes until you take care of the appropriate powers, for an appropriate salary, for all the conditions of those protecting the state of Slovenia at the Slovenian border and within its borders, such a proposal is shameful. It is quite shameful and only a diversion of attention, but at the same time it is contrary to what, for the third time, I repeat, is a principle that is also known by international law and constitutional law. The right to self-defence, ladies and gentlemen, is a human right, even if it is sometimes written in Slovenian legislation. This is above this legislation, because this is about things that touch on fundamental legal acts that regulate international relations throughout the world during the post-World War II period, and they can also be used under the Slovenian Constitution directly when it comes to such a type of act that it is possible. For this reason, I suggest that you define yourself by cancelling this law and simply ending with the fact that this is a disgrace to the government, is a disgrace to the state, is a disgrace to you personally. It's not going anywhere. Today we should discuss the tightening of asylum legislation, the tightening of those legal acts governing family reunification. All the neighbouring countries have done this, Slovenia is still waiting. We should talk about the responsibility of those who hide information about the crime of illegal migrants against the public, who hide judgments that run counter to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia – we should talk about this today. Not about what's in front of us today. For this reason, of course, we will not support these laws in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The following position will be presented by Mr Igor Peček, the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is a sovereign state. Its national sovereignty is already recorded in the preamble to the Constitution and then in its normative work. Although the word sovereignty is derived from the Latin word sovereignus, which means the highest in direct translation. One of the oldest uses of this concept applies to state authority. Sovereignty therefore represents the key, largest, highest, most powerful property of the state. Not only on the outside, when we are talking about an international attitude towards the community, but also on the inside, when the state has a monopoly on the form of physical coercion. Safety today is a good that means a lot in society if not the most. There are also many emerging forms of social security and is one of the most important as national security as a whole. After all, an individual in society can feel safe only when he lives in a country that is safe. Both definitions of security, both for the individual and for the country, are so closely linked that we cannot possibly talk about either one of them or the other without directly addressing each other. It is no coincidence that in our country we celebrate the day of sovereignty as a state holiday just on the day that Slovenia left the last soldier who committed aggression against people and property in Slovenia. As has already been said, the sovereignty of one country is, among other things, reflected in its defence and security system, which must be in the modern form of democratic states within the full and exclusive jurisdiction of the State. In general and only the country, i.e. every time, is the one that can and must provide a comprehensive and unified national security system. This must be based on three subsystems. The first is the intelligence subsystem, the second is the internal security subsystem with the police, and the third is the defence subsystem with the military. The defence and security function and the role of the State is that it is clear - and if we are responsible authorities, we must not in any case allow any unauthorised interference with the operational composition and functioning of the defence and security functions of our country. In this context, as a serious country, as an independent, independent and sovereign republic, we cannot afford any tolerance for the design of various self-declared village guards and guards. They imitate the work of the police and assume the tasks of the state security authorities alone. In particular, we would like to stress that our state structure clearly gives a monopoly on the use of force and coercion only to the Republic of Slovenia. For an even clearer and unambiguous legal framework today, we are adopting the new two laws which will clearly define such associations of the civilian population as illegal. The proposal therefore seeks to supplement the current Law on the Control of State Borders and the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace by prohibiting and sanctioning an individual or a group of people who, by wearing masks, uniforms or uniforms of similar clothing, and by using decorative weapons, impersonation of weapons which appear to be similar to weapons, carry out tasks which are solely within the competence of official or military personnel of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the proposed measures shall not apply to individuals or groups of individuals who wear, display or use such clothes or articles as props at events as part of the programme and are organised in accordance with the law governing public gatherings. As has already been said, any form of paramilitary units that want to carry out their activities, which are solely within the competence of the State security authorities, before defending security and peace for citizens, are causing destabilisation, and in disregard of formal legislation, forms of extremism and violence may also occur. We may not be aware of how crucial it is that security authorities in their work ensure the protection and respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms to respect human personality and dignity. The Slovenian security authorities shall consist of persons responsible for respecting all those listed. In order to carry out their tasks, they shall be properly educated, trained and refined and shall develop the knowledge necessary to carry out such demanding official tasks. Of course, guards or self-inflicted village guards do not provide this. Because of all the activities mentioned by these groups, they clearly constitute a violation of constitutional and democratic principles, respect for human rights and dignity on which the regulation of our Republic of Slovenia is based, so in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, we believe that the novels need to be adopted and, of course, we will also support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u40	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The state authority responsible for controlling the state border is the Police, and if the state border is excessively increased, the police can be assisted by members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in controlling the control. On a proposal from the Government, the National Authority may also activate Article 37a of the Defence Act and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces may obtain exceptional powers for a maximum of three months with the possibility of extension. This measure was adopted at the end of 2015 when a half-million-dollar refugee wave took place against Europe through the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. One of the most important areas of police work is the area of public order and peace and the protection of life, personal security and human property. Among the many tasks involved in this field of work is also the control over public gathering and the integration of people. For this reason, it is essential that the police, in accordance with their powers as masked individuals or groups in uniform or with weapons or with the imitation of weapons, do not adequately prevent citizens from being alarmed by parading or even declaring themselves guardians of the state border. At the same time, they are in some way even hindering the work of officials in protecting borders. The proposed amendments to the Law on State Border Control and the Law on Public Order and Peace are followed by events at the southern border, at the border with the Republic of Croatia. The operation of the guard was observed in this area in September of the previous year. Its members held back in this area, and as they themselves said, they trained and at the same time helped to control the border. The parade of masked men dressed in military uniform, with their faces covered and their weapons in their hands or with replicas, was, in my opinion, justifiable among the inhabitants of the area to be alarmed and also fear. The inhabitants of this area well know that it is the police who are obliged by law to protect the state border and to cooperate well with it. They also know the participating members of the Slovenian Army, who help the police and not least the population with their presence. After reporting to the media and asking questions, the competent Ministry of State border control and the protection of public order and peace prepared amendments to the law desiring that, in view of the situation of the proposed solutions, they should be dealt with in accordance with an urgent procedure. Unfortunately, the proposal at the College of the President of the National Assembly did not receive adequate support. The proposed amendments to the law will, in my opinion and in the opinion of the proposer, adequately address the question of who is prohibited from any action that would be carried out in the same or similar manner as the competent authority in the Republic of Slovenia, with a view to controlling the state border. Individuals or groups who, or by their activity, would give or encourage the appearance of official or military personnel performing official tasks will be duly sanctioned on the basis of the proposed legislation. The proposed solutions could, however, already be in force if the novels were dealt with in an urgent manner, as proposed by the Government, but the applicant for the general debate felt the opportunity to continue the rhetoric of spreading fear of refugees, migrants and evaluating who is a better and bigger European on the one hand, while on the other hand it was the promotion of a paramilitary group or some other self-declared patriotic group. We will support the conclusion that both marriage novelties are suitable for further consideration. In the next legislative process, we expect the Government and the competent minister to make the interpretation of the proposed novels clear and specific. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Slug will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u42	The government has presented to the National Assembly for consideration a proposal for novels on the control of the state border and on the protection of public work and peace, which should allow for the pursuit or restriction of the operation of so-called guards or village guards. The government points out that the police have also seen an increasing number of illegal state border crossings for the second year in a row in connection with the increasing number of illegal border crossings, as well as an increasing number of different movements, so-called guards. Many of the actions of these self-organised citizens have individual elements of wrongdoing. In particular, the wearing of uniforms and imitations of weapons is highlighted as controversial. The individual behaviour of such groups poses security risks to the State, since, under the pretext of self-organising security, individuals could actually be combined with the aim of carrying out the defence and security tasks of the State and protecting the state border, which is the exclusive competence of the State authorities. The behaviour of some groups in border areas may be understood as such. In the SMC, we believe that these descriptions of the Government are too mild and that in these cases they concern paramilitary and para-police units. The paramilitary unit is every organised community that has a hierarchy that is armed and has symbols and uniforms as a symbol of unity and wants to perform the tasks of state security authorities without permission. Such attempts to form parastatal formations usually occur during times of war, but Slovenia is neither in war nor in security. According to our assessment, it is individuals with radical and extremist beliefs who bring unrest, fear, hatred, intolerance and threats both to our security and to the democratic structure of our society. We do not need to look far back into history to be aware that the crimes in Srebrenica are shared or that the massacre of Muslim men involved paramilitary and paralytics, or, if you wish, parapolitical units. However, if we return to World War II, we were familiar with similar paramilitary units, namely, the so-called tearouts or the German Gegenbanda, a small paramilitary unit trained to fight guerrillas, organized by the Gestapo in the area of Gorenjska and Štajerska. Therefore, we strongly oppose the establishment of so-called guards and village guards. In the SMC, we have zero tolerance for initiatives by individuals and groups wishing to take over the tasks of the state. Legislation gives a monopoly on the use of force only to the State. Self-organising individuals or groups with weapons performing the tasks of the State authorities is unacceptable, and particularly in society should not be considered as an appropriate call for non-compliance with the Constitution and legislation. Slovenia is a secure country with a constitutional order that we owe to all its inhabitants. Slovenia is a safe country, a modern and orderly democracy in which there is no one who is not authorized to do so is allowed to take care of the security of the State and its borders. In such a country, there are clear powers and tasks of all parts of the national security system. Our national security system is in line with the security challenges we are currently facing, so there is no need for groups such as guards or lice guards. State security systems manage the situation, and such paramilitary or para-police groups do not provide security but threaten it. Therefore, in the SMC Group we support the Government's proposal, which will allow for a ban on the operation of so-called guards or village guards. We note that the leader of the so-called Styrian Guard, Andrej Šiško, has been sentenced to guard against a violent change in constitutional order and has been sentenced to legal imprisonment. Shisko and his co-thinkers set up a Land of Styria, which they perceive as a parallel legal system, a Styria justice that has no direct connection with the Republic of Slovenia, but is not contrary to its legal order. Since each country must have its own defence and security forces capable of ensuring public order and peace and border control, they have established the Styrian Guard or Guard. Article 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees freedom of assembly and association. We are aware of the said constitutional right of an individual to unite, but only until such merger does it affect the tasks that only national security authorities can perform. The SMC therefore calls on all citizens and citizens not to possess such radical ideas or extremist groups. These groups give the impression that everything in the country is wrong, that national security authorities do not carry out their tasks and that the country is incapable of caring for the safety of all of us. The members of the security and defence authorities of the State are the only legal guardians of the State. Each other form is illegal and undermines the constitutional order. The conduct of guards and village guards is contrary to the constitutional and democratic arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia, and especially to human rights to security, because they do not guarantee it, but are threatening it. In this regard, they would point out that a parliamentary inquiry into the functioning and activities of extremist groups in mass human protests against the current executive authority and, somewhere, the local authorities, which took place in various cities throughout Slovenia, have been established since the end of November 2012 and have started in Maribor. The Commission of Inquiry concluded only the first part of the investigation, which identified the security risk for national security in the Republic of Slovenia as extremist groups and whether legislation needed to be amended to prevent the operation and control of extremist groups. In January 2014, the National Assembly adopted an interim report. The Commission or the National Assembly has thus concluded that, both at European Union level and in individual Member States — with no exception from the Republic of Slovenia — reinforces extremism, that there are extremist groups in the Republic of Slovenia that pose a risk to national security and the democratic structure of society, and that the tools available by national authorities to combat the phenomenon of extremism and the functioning of extremist groups are not sufficiently effective. In the interim report, the Commission of Inquiry noted that all intelligence and security systems determine the existence of extremist groups in Slovenia and that existing legislation does not allow for preventive control and effective action against their operation, which has now proved to be true in the case of so-called guards or village guards. We must be aware that Slovenia is not immune to various forms of radicalisation and extremism that undermine constitutional order and spread the ideology of racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, homophobia and so on, and that all of this requires a serious response from state authorities and our reflection on whether we have done enough to prevent such phenomena. Some countries have even banned the activities of certain radical or extremist groups and have prosecuted their members. The German government has recently declared a ban on the neo-Nazi Group Combat 18 on the grounds that there is no room in their society for extreme right-wing extremism and anti-Semitism. However, the German Home Intelligence Service, the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution, has strengthened control of the AFD political party due to suspicions of cooperation with extremist groups. Not to mention, in Greece, the extreme political parties of the Golden Dawn were tried by Members. This international practice shows that the tools now available to Slovenia are not effective and therefore, on the basis of all these arguments in the SMC, we will support both proposals for legislation. There's something else I'd like to say. In the previous positions of the parliamentary groups, there was so much intolerance, so much hatred that we could not define it as freedom of speech, and I therefore strongly protest. At the same time, I would also like to make sure that Ambassador Jelinčič, who represented the position of the SNS Group, does not feel like a man simply because he is in need of a man's council.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The following position will be presented by Mrs Nataša Sukič, position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good-bye! All together, it began in autumn 2018 when the social networks rounded up photographs of an armed group that was to be trained in the Styrian forests. The group was named the Voluntary Defence Group of the Free People of the Land of Styria, with a short name Styria Guard. At that time, the guard, to put it this way, specialized in another purpose — defending and applying the idea of the Land of Styria. With this idea, she did not excite the public more than she mocked, so she quickly adapted her tactics. As it is fitting for any serious radical right-wing man, she has defined hatred and intolerance as the basis for her actions and for her basic activity of manhunting. Since the beginning, the public has been appalled by the Styrian Guard, wondering how the police have failed to act. Due to lack of control, the eyewitnesses also flew to the Owl. The police finally moved, the self-proclaimed head of the guard and one of the members of the SDS executive committee were eventually convicted. The Chief of the Styrian Guard is in prison today. All violent, hateful groups have a common trait — all coming from the right side of the political province. For example, when the biggest protests took place in Ljubljana in 2012 by the government of Janez Janša, a small group of right-wing extremists provoked the launching of the entire repressive police apparatus. While the repressive apparatus of the crowd of protestors, who did absolutely nothing wrong, got rid of the tear gas, the pen, and finally even the water cannon, that group of right-wing extremists, of course, did not happen. It was the same in Maribor. As early as 2013, an investigator was established in the National Assembly on extremist groups in Slovenia. The Commission found that Owl was concealing data on the existence of extremist groups and concrete links with a specific political party. You can guess, the director of the Owl was Damir Črnčec, and the connection was between the subjugation of the SDS and the neo-Nazi group Blood and Honor. Today we have the same situation – we have a right extremist group walking along the woods along the border wearing uniforms, holding the imitation of Kalashnikov and publicly proclaiming the fact that people are being hunted, while the advisor of the retired Prime Minister Marjan Šarc for National Security is none other than Damir Črnčec. This same black man who, as the director of the Owl, covered up information about the existence of right-wing extremist groups. And it is this counselor of the retired Prime Minister, in response to the Styrian Guard, who points to a change of law, that we cannot act otherwise. However, it proposes two marriage proposals that do not really solve anything or anything else but satisfy the appetites of the applicants who would like to tackle someone else with a repressive apparatus, such as peaceful protestors who are protesting a completely different matter. First, let us see why marriages do not really save anything. The police could've acted today, that's a fact. This fact clearly and unequivocally confirms the fact that the Chief Security Marshal is in prison. All we need to do is to act, so we already have today – we have a crime and we have a crime. The government is now proposing that people being hunted by guards instead of being a criminal offence be regarded as an offence, and this is an extreme absurdity. In Levica, we are convinced that the police could act today. This same article of the Law on Public Order and Peace already exists today. According to our information, unfortunately, no self-indulgence guard has been punished to this day. And answer this absurd question if you can. And not only that, but the act that the Penal Code has already defined as a criminal, that is, issuing for an official, you will now clearly define as an offence. So someone who would have to go to prison would be simply ingrained instead. You are proposing very interesting solutions with these legislative proposals. The same is true of the use of masks, uniforms or other clothing similar to uniforms. If someone seems to be performing the tasks of officials or military personnel, this is already a crime today. But no, according to the new government, I would therefore like to see it as an offence. Furthermore, it proposes that the law be dealt with in an urgent manner, because the interests of the State are at risk. I mean, if it's not an absurd and complete mess, then I don't know what it is. Once again, I would like to stress that the new fine would be more appropriate and something would have been characterized as an offence, rather than a crime and punishment being appropriate. But the absurds, of course, are not over. The State Border Control Act already provides for the border to be controlled by the police, also lays down penalties for individuals wishing to play border guards. But also here the derogated government says that this provision is not clear enough and that it is necessary to make it more clear that border control can be exercised only by the police and only by the police. I ask you kindly, so it is necessary to define this more clearly. It is almost as if, in addition to the provision on who is a Member, they would explicitly record information on who is not a Member. We have no record of this today. And therefore, according to this same logic, the apostate government is only a matter of time before, because of the lack of legislation, anyone can step into this hall and make a decision. The same could, of course, happen to the Prime Minister. That is the logic of your legislative proposals. That's actually absurd, but let's just let it go, let's put a little joke aside. The fact is, so far, I have presented you with arguments that clearly demonstrate that the proposals concerning the Styrian Guard do not really change anything completely. Let me also explain what the derogated government could do with the proposed amendments to the laws. We know that the police, the military, the former Minister of the Interior, the current Minister of the Interior, the Government of Mir Cerar and the now retired government of Marjan Sarca have been skillfully using the refugee crisis for the past five years to increase the repression and authority of the repressive authorities. I'm talking about repressive measures that are actually directed against all citizens and citizens – paralysers, military equipment, IMSI hunters, drones, facial recognition, mass car control, air passengers and so on and so on. All these measures taken by the previous and current government over the last five years are in fact applicable to all of us, citizens and citizens with respect. Don't let us blind ourselves to that. Today, this is exactly the case before us. Here we are not talking about any legal definition of paramilitary units or extremist groups, the measure is not really directed against the guards, because it will have no special effect, no additional effect to say so. It really applies to us all. In particular, in the proposal for amendments to the State Border Control Act, for example, we are faced with a very controversial dictatorship that will come in handy with the repressive apparatus. Not for security. Article 46a, as amended, states: “With a fine of at least 1,000 euros, an individual who acts in a manner similar to or similar to that of carrying out police duties in the exercise of State border control shall be punished,” and “is now paying attention, “or obstructing the police in the exercise of State border control.” End of story. So not the Styria Guard, here the police will be given the power to act against, for example, completely peaceful protesters at the border, whether it is to open an additional border crossing, restore the border crossing, for example, for some environmental protestors or those protesting police violence against refugees, against border wires, against the promotion of drowning in Kolpa and so on. This law, if adopted here, will actually give the police power. Whatever happens to the police that moment. Thus, this measure is not really intended for security, but most likely for the authorities of disruptive groups. If we look at the current arrangement, we can figure out the following. Article 305 of the Penal Code provides that a person who, in order to benefit himself or another person, or to harm anyone, false extradition for an official or military person or who unjustifiably bears the marks of an official or military person shall be punished with a financial penalty or imprisonment of up to one year. That's what the Penal Code says in Article 305 right now. “The same shall be punished who commits an act which is justified only by an official or military person.” End of story. The current State Border Control Act provides that the police are responsible for the control of the state border. So only the police can control the country's border. If someone commits an act that is justified by only an official or military person, he shall be punished by imprisonment for up to one year. That's what we've got! Varda controls a border that only the police can carry out — so? I think the explanation behind this is clear. So who's protecting the guard? What are they really worried about? It's not the law that's been so focused today to protect the guards. The law is not because it is perfectly clear and unequivocal, as I have shown you. But this is not the only case where power is really completely double-faced. Let me give you another example. When we talk about the problem of persecution and sanctioning hate speech or threats and similar matters, the government, the ministry and the police say most often that they cannot do anything. We also talk here more than once about the need to amend legislation. People on social networks are spreading widespread hatred against refugees, Roma, the LGBT community, even the poor and the disabled. For example, some prominent SDS members on Twitter even called for the shooting of refugees — no one was harmed. On the other hand, we have such bizarreness as the case of someone who was convicted of a crime and not a crime, I am talking about a 62-year-old homeless person from Maribor who insulted Janša and Gorenak. Now let's ask ourselves where we really have this problem in this society. In Levi, we both oppose the proposals because we believe that this is a truly well-known pianist move, a blinding maneuver that conceals real events or that somehow masks the inactivity of the competent authorities so far, who should act and who could act because we already have all the grounds in the laws. Let me finish by adding something else. Since the appearance of the Styria Guard, we have also heard from some government representatives and representatives of the coalition that this is how fascism begins. Really? That's how fascism starts? No, my dears, fascism starts in state offices, starts in the police, in the military, and so on. In short, it starts in state offices first, so to speak. We can draw a parallel if you don't believe me, from a half-lived history that we should never forget, and it seems like we're still forgetting it. Brown shirters, a paramilitary militia, were smashing exhibitions of Jewish shops on a crystal night. Formally, this was not allowed, although some anti-Jewish laws were in force at the time, for example, prohibiting the reporting of the Aryans and Jews and so forth, but there was still no legal breakdown of the exhibitions. At that time, as the Slovenian state has today, the German state had all the levers available to punish the actions of this paramilitary militia without delay. She's changed, like we're moving here. So we can ask ourselves why the government and its repressive apparatus tolerate such phenomena. Why are there no penalties imposed today? Why do these penalties, which are now changing from tolars to euros and rising slightly, even become misdemeanors? Let's ask ourselves all this. These are the questions that we should actually ask ourselves. Let me return to Germany, to that sad period of Germany at the time. What, in fact, enabled the establishment of a totalitarian state in which paramilitary militias of ruling Nazi parties could be unpunished to express themselves at home? What else but strengthening the repressive apparatus, the police, is a gesture, an army and so on, just like you are doing today? They fenced the space with a barbed wire — just as you do today. And they were still armed with weapons — just as you are doing today. The laws you're proposing are likely to strike at people who will protest against your closing of the border, against your barbed wires, against a reinforced repressive apparatus. In this light, security is not really a basic problem, security is actually a social symptom. The problem is you, my dears. And no, we're not in the same boat. You and the guards are in the same boat, and the people in Kolpa are literally drowning. The head of the self-proclaimed Styrian Guard is in prison today — the legal basis for the persecution of guards is, therefore, if we want to use them. But even if he is in prison until there is a change in politics, we will continue to face various guards. Right hand scares and sows hatred against refugees, this is what we have heard here today to a great extent, again. The government agrees with this rhetoric and adopts a whole range of measures to which every right-wing government would be proud, and when this wave of hatred is overriding by a variety of strokes and other far-righters, wonders how this could have happened. You're surprised. Let me repeat, the problem is not a guard, it's a symptom. The problem is you, the renegade government and the coalition. I am afraid that this symptom will not disappear, but it will become even more indignant in society as long as you run such policies, whether the government will be reconstructed within this call of the National Assembly or whether we will soon get any new ones. If you continue this way, things will certainly not change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u46	Good afternoon, dear fellows and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! If we look at what the objectives of the law are, the implementation of the law, we can quickly find out that in both cases it is legislation aimed at preventing the establishment of different forms of civil control, so-called village guards on our southern border or anywhere else. If you read the law itself, complemented in five articles, you can see that it is a law directed against so-called guards, the Styrian Guard, who self-declaredly protects the southern border. Mr Minister, a great deal of effort to give these forms of self-organization, special attention, which can then be used properly in the context of the electoral campaign and so on. I claim that these people and their organization do not deserve the attention you give them, indeed. Because even if we look at the appearance of these village guards or guards, it is imperative to look at how effectively the country is fighting the migratory wave, the Balkan flow and so on. Therefore, the appearance of village guards or guards must be linked to the inefficiency of the competent services. The solution is not a ban, the beating of someone who organizes himself – although I condemn it, I think that these are police tasks – but we must solve, Mr Minister, together, and in particular you, this fundamental problem, namely the Slovenian police, must effectively prevent illegal migration, not that people in the White Country are afraid of what is going on. We must protect the southern border, the Slovenian border and ensure the security of citizens and citizens. This is the task of the police and everything else is unnecessary or should not be necessary. But if five individuals get together and play like children do, they don't deserve to be noticed that the minister is here with us all day. As the southern border is at the same time the Schengen border, the international consequences of that fact must also be highlighted. Austria still controls the northern Slovenian border and Italy, beware, in cooperation with Slovenia is carrying out so-called mixed patrols that are supposed to plague the transition of illegal migrants. Hence, the lack of protection of our southern border has consequences. The consequences are that we still have a real border control with our northern neighbour Austria. In New Slovenia we advocate such a policy towards internal security, which will provide citizens with a high level of security and thus an adequate quality of life. I'm sure it's a challenge. The challenges to ensuring primary security are certainly migration as well as their associated integration of immigrants. Illegal migration, ladies and gentlemen, must be stopped and prevented, and for persons with an adequate status of international protection, the Republic of Slovenia must also ensure an appropriate integration policy. In New Slovenia, we believe that immigrants who come to the territory of the European Union must respect our constitutional order, our culture, our language and our customs. Successful integration is very important for all immigrants. The proposed measure, Mr Minister, is first of all an improvement in the working conditions of the police. For the smooth and efficient work of the Slovenian police, it is necessary to improve the conditions for its work without delay. Despite some purchases that have occurred that have modernised part of the equipment, Slovenian police still have poor and outdated equipment that does not meet the basic standards many times. This needs to be fixed as soon as possible and better equipment provided by the Slovenian police. Another important factor to be put in place is the amendment of asylum legislation. According to the example of some European countries, the Republic of Slovenia must further tighten asylum legislation, i.e. strengthen the conditions for obtaining asylum status, further redefining the rights to which persons with international protection are entitled, and procedures for international protection must be stepped up. At the same time, we argue that Slovenia must also introduce appropriate safeguards to prevent the abuse of the Institute of International Protection from happening. Many who come here are abusing the entire asylum policy, the whole process of international protection, and this must be prevented, because then those who need international protection are due to possible additional quotas and can thus not get any further damage. Therefore, in New Slovenia we stress the need to separate refugees on the one hand from economic migrants, who come especially for a better life, but do not flee from war situations, on the other hand. The statistics, Mr. Secretary, are inexcusable. If we quickly read the police report on migration from 1. 1. 2019 to 31. Ten. 2019, we find that the number has increased by 71.8 %, with the highest upward trend detected since July 2019. The number of illegal border crossings is therefore 71.8% higher compared to last year. The challenge, Mr Minister, is not how we will prevent some individuals who play non-majority across the southern border, but how you will strengthen the work of the Slovenian police, how you will ensure better conditions for the work of the Slovenian police and prevent illegal border crossings. And that's your job for the next month or two.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you very much. He'll be like the last one. Andrej Reich presented the position of the Alenka Bratušek Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The government has submitted two laws to our decision making which, according to the proposaler, will help us to respect people's dignity and their right to security more effectively. In particular, the aim is to ensure more effective protection of public order and peace and to ensure the effective implementation of duties and the effective conduct of criminal proceedings by the Slovenian police. The so-called Styrian Guard is carrying out activities with a clear and hidden purpose of controlling the state border. In doing so, they wear the same clothes and blankets that remind them of the uniforms of officials. They also use symbols such as coat of arms and flags. These self-proclaimed village guards are mostly uncontrollable and the consequences of their activities are very unpredictable. The fact is that the protection of the state border in every normal country is solely the responsibility of the police. The police are also specially qualified to carry out these tasks. The monopoly on repression and the use of coercion belongs exclusively to the State. The Ministry of the Interior has recently repeatedly ensured that the police are in control of the border situation and the situation. By trying to interfere with the powers and duties of the police, the lice guards hinder her work and unnecessarily disturb the general public. In practice, problems have arisen in the pursuit of such guards. For such acts do not become punishable unless a person commits an act that is justified only by an official or military person. As a result, the District Attorney's Office did not decide to prosecute on the basis of police notices. In such cases, the police have their hands tied, and residents at the southern border feel threatened by the activities and activities of the village guards. The Government therefore proposes that the State border control law clearly and unequivocally stipulate that any conduct of an individual or group which is carried out with a view to controlling the state border shall be prohibited in a manner equivalent to or similar to that of the police. In the law on the protection of public order and peace, however, they propose to prohibit the wearing, display or use of decorative weapons, imitations of weapons or other items similar to weapons. Exceptionally, items similar to weapons will continue to be used as props for events. For the existence of this offence, it is added by law that the appearance of official or military personnel in carrying or using items similar to weapons is aroused. The bill also contains a new offence involving the use of masks, uniforms, or clothing similar to official or military uniforms. The fact is that the organisation of such companies or the guards must be prevented because they are neither qualified nor empowered, and they leave unpredictable consequences. In the SAB Group, we will support both proposals for the law, as we do not support any conduct contrary to the Constitution and democratic regulation of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposals for laws. As the first to receive the word, Mr Dušan Šiško, Mr Zvonko Černač is being prepared. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would say to Mrs Sukič that we are not all in security and we do not all know each other. Don't put us in the same basket. Maybe she knows her own tree because we know where she's going. Respected citizens, citizens, Slovenians and Slovenians, who accompany us, will be taken off by this law today. Not me, because I don't wear clothes like that, I wore them in 1988 when I was in JNA, and then in gun practice, I have some of these clothes at home, and now I don't use them anymore. But those - not long ago, here we had a regular session, inside came a photographer, dressed in uniform pants. I want to know why you didn't arrest him, not just winning when he had a point of view. And how many people are there if we go after Ljubljana today! Then I'm wondering if you're going to ban all the merchants from selling it and who's going to pay them for the goods they've already bought. It's something that's on your nose right now. I don't know why. And the children — what are they doing today? The games on the phone, and on the computer, they're shooting at each other. You think they're shooting naked? They wear uniforms, they paint, they wear a lot of clothes. But when you meet a migrant dressed in uniform — will you punish him? No, you won't. He'll get a pardon. Just like that migrant who stole a car down in Brežice and ran into it. Our high judge in Krske said: “We cannot sue him or punish him.” That's how we are in our loving country. Minister, someone very much seduced you about this, I must tell you. You know, I believe you haven't prepared this, but the ones in the back who have been sitting in there for 20 years, and I've told you, I've never told you before, they just give you some stuff. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Member. Your time is up. Even if it's time-sharing, maybe. Mr Zvonko Černač has the following word and Mr Gregor Perič is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u52	Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister! Today we are discussing the amendment to the Law on State Border Control and the amendment to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. Last November, we were informed that at a very urgent meeting, at the request of the President of the Government of Mr Sharpe, without a representative of the opposition who is a member of the National Security Council by law, the National Security Council had met and wondered what had happened in that country, but that such a high level of conspiracy had to be, and that the opposition should not have heard it. And then in a few hours, we learned that the National Security Council had met because some adult campers had been monitoring and hunting butterflies along the southern Schengen border. Really funny and sad at the same time. So not only in this case, but also in many other cases, this government has dealt with unfortunately irrelevant things, but not with those that are important both for the country and for the people. This government has dealt with the consequences both in this case and in other cases instead of dealing with the causes. There is no need for any amendment to the Law on State Border Control in this direction and no amendment to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. Today, it has been repeatedly said that we have everything regulated in the legislation. If the government wants to implement this legislation, and if it believes that these people who have called themselves security are problematic, the authorities could also act. But it wasn't about that. It was about other things. On the other hand, we are still witnessing the daily mass illegal crossings of the Schengen border. Many are also not recorded, so we don't even know the real picture. In the last year, for a good year, the Slovenian Democratic Party has requested at least five times from the Government and the competent minister to take measures to protect the Croatian-Slovenian border, the Schengen border, and to take measures to prevent the mass abuse of asylum legislation and asylum procedures, the International Protection Act, which is taking place on a daily basis, and the figures, official police numbers confirm this – out of over 3,000 applications are less than 100 eligible, all of them are abuse of asylum proceedings. The country on the shoulders of taxpayers offers free accommodation to those who abuse these practices in an asylum home in Vič. Not to mention all the other things. It is said that this authority, with inappropriate conduct and with the non-response of taxpayers and people, is causing unnecessary additional costs, and at the same time it adopted this procedure following an emergency procedure, last November, these two amendments to the law and only the College of the President of the National Assembly has changed this procedure into a regular procedure, thank God. Finally, I think it is necessary to conclude this procedure today in the vote, because these two novels are not only unnecessary, harmful and they also confuse not only the current authority, but the whole country before the international public. Rather than allowing the Government and the competent ministry, on the one hand, to ensure normal conditions for those who are legally bound by the State border to protect and establish all the legislative mechanisms at their disposal in this regard, we have witnessed in the last year that all the attempts that have been made to the extent that we have already decided on individual laws in the National Assembly have already been decided – among other things, we have decided on the amendment of the Law on International Protection and has been rejected and we have also been informed at this meeting that it has been rejected again, this time it has been proposed by this new Council of State. So everything proposed by the opposition, mainly by the Slovenian Democratic Party, and went towards more effective control of the Croatian-Slovenian state border, was rejected. We do know, however, that the main problem is not the illegal crossings of the state border simply because the daily mass breach of Article 2 of the Law is one of the highly divisive and extremely profitable trafficking in human beings. And most of all, it is supported by Slovenian NGOs, which are heavily financed from the Slovenian state budget, i.e. from taxpayers' money, and the government does nothing about it. At least what we should do is we should stop these funds and this funding, and the second step would be to process all of these because they are working against the country, because they are actually destroying national security, but they are not. How can we witness this when we read last year that individual political parties sitting here in the National Assembly were actively involved in this trafficking and prevented these decisions from being taken? We read about a lady who was a candidate for Social Democrats in one of the European elections, the former wine queen who was arrested for dealing with this illegal trafficking in human beings, with illegal border crossings, with illegal migrants. How, then, should we count on the political option that members of this group are involved in voting in favour of laws and decisions to prevent it? It's obviously very difficult. The Law on State border control is clear and clear in Article 2, and says that control is carried out in order to prevent irregular migration – and this part is not carried out as it should – in order to ensure the safety of people, property and the environment, to prevent and detect other threats to public security and order. It is said that this law is in mass breach, and you are coming with some novel of another article, which speaks of the problem for this country as those who have somehow felt the duty to help people in an area where they feel threatened, and I think they pose no danger to public order or peace or anything else. However, they pose a very serious threat to public order and peace and to the population, these illegal border crossings, especially when our Western border against the Republic of Italy, which is still quite open today, becomes more closed than today, which will happen in a relatively short time following political changes in the neighbouring country if the Republic of Slovenia does not protect the Schengen border. Then we will have a really chaotic situation in Slovenia, and I have said several times that this government will not solve this problem. And thank God your government is gone. Because when the new government comes, whatever it is, I think that this is one of the things — among other things that are important to people — that need to be regulated. It is said that, on the one hand, to protect the Schengen border, on the other hand, to amend asylum legislation in such a way that abuses are not possible and that only those who really need international protection will be entitled to international protection – and, as you can see, there are not many of these, fewer than 100 cases were listed last year – and on the other hand, to sanction those who participate in this international trafficking in human beings, to the greatest extent unfortunately also members of many Slovenian NGOs. These two novels that we have on the table today don't talk about it, but they're dealing with some consequences. No guards would be required if the Croatian-Slovenian border were protected, if the police had the opportunity to effectively protect this border, and if all the other mechanisms available to the State were in place to protect itself in order to prevent illegal trafficking in human beings, which, last but not least, would result in other financial consequences. So these two novels do not solve any of the problems, but I hear that some in the fighting organisations feel very hurt because at these revolutionary parades that abuse the former partisan struggle, we see individuals who are now obviously sanctioned if they are still dressed like this, because this legislation, I do not know if you have read it well, says that only those who are part of the programme are not sanctioned. There, those whom we saw in the company of Minister Katičeva and some others, including in the company of Mr Sharc, were not part of the programme, but they came to these events and now, of course, you will be sanctioning this novel, not with a small euro, your own thinkers or members. It is not that important, but it is important that you use these novels to shoot at nothing in order to deal with completely other matters, to protect people at the border, to protect the country, to prevent trafficking in human beings, to ensure security and to prevent the mass abuse of the asylum process, to deal economically with taxpayers' money. Because the strong millions involved in these unnecessary activities are taxpayers' money. Instead of spending it on those who do not, especially those with low incomes, who are now very difficult to pay for even smoking in winter months, this money is spent on unnecessary activities because this government and the leadership of this country are unable to carry out the basic tasks imposed by the State Border Control Act, so they are not able to protect state borders and are unable to protect people in this country. So I hope these two novels will end their legislative path today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič has the next word to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all, Minister, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! That's what I'm gonna say. The problem that we are facing today, or that we are actually talking about today, is the problem of migration, especially illegal migration, in Slovenia, which is very different depending on where we live. Those people living along the border are certainly more likely to face this phenomenon, there is nothing new, we know the causes of it, we know its consequences, we know that this phenomenon has not been caused by Slovenia as a country with any action, not domestically or externally, but we must face it, as many countries in Europe are facing, even wider in the region or the world. We may be able to address these issues in a different way from the Member States of the European Union, despite the fact that we are all equal or full members of the Schengen system. We can also ask ourselves a question as to whether Croatia is really mature to enter the Schengen system, although we know that the great majority of these people pass through Croatia. A lot of questions are being asked here. With these two novels that we're dealing with today, we're doing more, hold on, with some consequence. I will also explain why we must also deal with this consequence if Slovenia, as such, is not alone here, cannot focus on getting rid of the reason. Because this reason is very broad, very difficult to eliminate, in the final stage there is a need for a broader consensus where many countries that are inadequately larger than Slovenia should play their part, but it is not because we are losing ourselves here in a variety of overplays. When this phenomenon appears, maybe I'll make a bold claim, there's some help, some support that's been given to our jobs, so the police, on the ground, are always welcome to make their activities easier. Because we know, for several years now, that it is difficult to get new associates into the police force, because in the past, a few years ago, we have been saving very intensively in the police and the military, both in the human resources sense and in the sense of equipment, and these are the consequences that we will feel for a while. Many efforts have already been made in the previous government to get this over with, and this government has continued these activities, but when you break something, it takes quite some time to put it back on its feet. As it is said, any support that the police receive is welcome and useful, but we must be aware of each other's point of view, whether such structures are not under any public control that are not either under civil control or under political control, something that we really want in Slovenia. My opinion is no. If we're talking about some kind of repression, if we're talking about using such and other means, weapons or just the imitation of weapons, then I think about what we don't really have to talk about, and that's something that only affects those who are under some very serious control, both to the public and to the government as well as to those responsible for all the moves and activities that are taking place, and ultimately also under some democratic control of politics. Here, I mean not only one side or the other, but the entire National Assembly, because it is the only one, and it is also arranged in all the countries of the world, at least the ones we love to follow. If I take one example from Italy that is not directly related to this issue today. If we ever go to Italy, we will see that the Italians have very many police officers, carabiners and other services. Italy's history has been such that, in the face of some political instability, these services have been divided into at least two ministries, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, so that not too much power can be concentrated on just one point, that this democratic control is that there is much more of this dispersion. This is a step forward in the sense of some surveillance of police officers, or all those who have some repressive powers. However, to take a step back in Slovenia, so that someone we do not know has a name or some serious purpose, a completely free way to organize and do what he likes, and that he takes some rights that come only to Parliament and only to the government, which are legitimately and legally chosen by people, I think that this direction of development is something that is not good for Slovenia, is not good for any authority. As such a group may appear on one side of the political space, it can also appear on the other side of the political space. And we can only imagine how such communication or “social dialogue” can develop. Surely these are some directions of development that we do not want and do not need. As I say, I want the police to control our state border. If we find that there are such circumstances that the police cannot do their job, there are mechanisms that have been put in place to assist the military, with some appropriate consensus and also with the responsibility of the policy itself, with appropriate supervision. Otherwise, some free organization in this sense is not right. So we need to be aware that one support is some activity, and another is when we walk on the edge. Our court also issued a judgment saying something. After all, a few weeks ago, our police discovered some of the most interesting warehouses in certain groups, which we hear today that we would like to support the police, but almost seems to represent some kind of competition. As it is said, activities in this direction, outside of some democratic control both by the government and Parliament and ultimately by the people, are wrong, are bad for our country, and ultimately for stability and confidence in the institutions themselves, and such activities need to be brought into some democratic framework. That's why I'm going to support this government effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The next panellist resigned from the debate by getting the word of Mrs Suzanne Lep Šimenko and Mr Predrag Baković is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. I wonder, of course, why we need to change these two laws in the first place. I simply do not understand, given that we have clearly in Article 305 of the Penal Code that a person who falsely claims to be an official or military person or who unjustifiably bears the marks of an official or military person shall be punished with a financial penalty or with imprisonment of up to one year. The same is true of anyone who commits an act that is justified only by an official or military person. The laws before us today are totally unjustifiable and, of course, unnecessary in this respect. For we have already clearly defined false extradition for an official or military person as a criminal offence. And, of course, at this point, I wonder whether the state border does not fall within this framework, which somehow falls under this Article. It makes no sense to me why we're talking about this today. The second thing to be asked is why the village guards were even involved. I really don't know if you're aware at the Ministry, but believe me, I come from one of the congregations at the southern border alone, and the citizens at the southern border don't feel safe. And we're not in the area where the passages of illegal migrants are the most extensive, but they have been happening for years and years in larger or smaller quantities and somehow, I'll say, people have gotten used to it in some way, and, of course, it also raises a lot of fear, they're afraid for their children. They want some extra action, they want road lighting, where it's never been, and it's kind of pointless, they lock their houses when they didn't, for example, when women went to the garden, but people in the countryside were kind of used to leaving the house open when they were walking around the yard. Unfortunately, that is no longer the case today, and this is of course worrying. The second thing I'm really worried about is the information you publish publicly. Last year I asked twice a question about the number of illegal crossings in those ends, specifically in the PP Ormož, Gorišnica and Podohnik area. If from 1. 1. to 30. The 11th, according to your answers, was a thousand 699 illegal crossings. When we look at the data that you gave to the working group that you set up to study the impact of irregular migration in border municipalities, these numbers are significantly lower, the difference is for 342. I'm talking about the area of PP Ormož, Gorišnica and Podpoduhnik. I would like to know in what way – these are the data that you answered my question, under this data is the signed minister, and the other data is the source of the police – how such a discrepancy can come only in this area. Such and similar situations, however, I believe that people have some fear and lack of confidence in the work the police are doing. On the other hand, I really understand the cops on this southern border. Not long ago, only in the media can they read about the salaries that are in the Police Department of Home Affairs, and here are 100 best-paid people, whose salaries are between 4000 300 and 5 000 800 euros gross, on the other hand we have a border guard officer who gets a thousand 85 euros gross. I know that the police are one huge machine that citizens need, of course, but I am interested in what is the ratio of people employed in the police, who are actually sitting in the offices rarely on the ground, and those who are actually out on the ground every day. I'm curious about how many of them there are and how many others there are, because I think we have a really huge machine, and on the other hand, we know you've given this data yourself last year that we need thousands of 500 cops. How much we need them! Those who are operationally involved and who are specifically at the southern border, we certainly need more. So I greatly appreciate and respect their work, but on the other hand, as far as leadership is concerned, it is to ask and not enjoy my trust. If we take a look at these laws. I'm going to go through both marriages because that's, I'm going to say, it's such a fun reading, but I really wonder, Minister, did you even read what you gave away? I'm going to go to the State Border Control Act first, page two. You write: “The basic duty and the task and the mission of the police is to ensure the security of individuals and communities and therefore the legal area must be upgraded by the criminality of certain acts.” What about Article 305 of the Penal Code? Isn't he determined enough about criminality? Why should this be further upgraded? As it is said, the village guards would never have been reached if people felt safe. I think the question is, who feels threatened here now? Secondly, what is interesting is the aim of the bill is to ensure more effective protection of the state border. We support this very much, indeed, but I am interested in where are the measures to ensure more effective protection of the state border. What are these measures? I would be happy if, even with financial effects, it did not say that there are no financial implications for the state budget, because, of course, it would contain individual measures, I don't know, we would buy a few more drones, hire additional police officers, purchase this equipment, set an additional border or whatever, related to more effective protection of the state border. But there's absolutely nothing in this marriage about this. The changes to be made are below 2.3 under the main solutions — very interesting: “To ensure more effective protection of the state border and the racial delimitation of the powers to protect the state’s borders, please mention this only change that is. [[…]] But what's interesting is, you write, "clear limits of jurisdiction". Among whom? So now you're admitting on one side – what? What about the police? Whom do you delimit in this law? It's really interesting. In some ways, you seem to admit something else to keep them separate. So I would really ask for clarification on that. Then forward, in showing regulation in other legal systems, I go through all of these countries that you're referring to, but I simply don't see from all of these comparisons where the role of civil society is now. They have no similar arrangements in any country, as you are now proposing in this law. If we look at the article itself, which is being amended, it is also interesting: “Any conduct of an individual or group that is carried out with a view to controlling the state border is prohibited in a manner similar to or similar to the conduct of police tasks in the exercise of State border control or which impedes the police in the exercise of State border control.” So they can't just operate at the state border, but they can work deep down, or how? Again a very illogical record. If I look ahead in the very explanation. Here you point out that the current lack of public regulation causes excitement. I am interested in how many citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have felt this excitement. It interferes with police work — in what sense? I really can't imagine how this could interfere with police work. If you can explain that to me. “And could have a negative impact on the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia.” I think that the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia is negatively affected by anything other than what you are saying here, even by sending something like this to the National Assembly. When we look at the second law and the law on the protection of public order and peace, where you introduce a new offence concerning the use of disguises on decorative weapons. One phrase I find very interesting is: “It is forbidden to wear these clothes if an individual makes it appear to carry out the tasks of officials or military personnel.” Now I want to know what it means to make it look like. How are you going to explain to the police what they have to do? Are you going to publish some kind of a look-up manual or how will this be defined? I really don't know how you imagine that. It's funny, but on the other hand, it's a disaster. Do you imagine — when we read the explanation for this article, it is very clear here that it is solely in the assessment of a policeman. He's the one who's going to assess whether someone's making that look. If you give this assignment to the police, how are you going to explain it to them, in what way? Because the citizens who will be dealt with in Lendava or in Koper must be treated equally by law. In what way will you guarantee this, with phrases such as those recorded in the law itself? The second is that the offence is not limited to a public place. Let me explain what that means. Do you want to see what people are wearing or, I don't know, what kind of plastic, wooden guns they're parading around the house? I mean, that's really grotesque. It's totally unacceptable. On the other hand, what I really think is that you make fun of this law from the cops themselves. You state what belongs to a decorative weapon; among other things, I give the hunt with a harpoon, and you prescribe that wearing it is forbidden. I don't know if you've seen a cop or a soldier at a state border walking around a harpoon? I don't know what this has to do with this marriage. Who the hell are you guys working with here? And also phrases like: uniforms or clothes similar to military uniforms – what are these now, like uniforms? What? I don't know how to play. That's really funny on the one hand. Minister, I recommend you read this law. I believe you didn't, otherwise you wouldn't have moved on. I really hope that the Members have read it too. You can't go on like that, you make fun of people, you make fun of cops. And in a way – what do you want with this? To prescribe how someone should dress? What are masks? Hunters will have to be careful, those who are there at the border, walking around, carrying their weapons, are likely to have a problem. Not to mention all the other uniforms, I don't know what kind of fireman goes home in uniform, God forbid he has another plastic or wooden gun in his hand. Because it's the cop who's going to end up assessing whether someone's going to commit a crime or not. But that's totally unacceptable. The law cannot be written in such a way that it is actually judged by an open mind that there is an individual's subjective assessment here. Indeed, all I can say is that when you wrote these laws, whoever wrote them, he certainly didn't use any common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković has the following word, and Mrs Mateja Udovč is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I've been following this debate – in fact, I understand the discussions of some in terms of, leave security and similar organisations at peace and then we won't have illegal crossings, we won't have migrations, we won't have car thefts, we won't have weekends, we won't have, I don't know, rapes, whatever you're saying. And then, among other things, some of you are discussing the alternative that we already have this in certain regulations and that these things are actually irrelevant. Some of you cite: the crime of false extradition for an official or military person, then the law on the protection of public order and peace, the law on the control of the state border. As far as the Law on the Control of the State Border is concerned, I can say that, of course, it says that the protection of the border is within the exclusive competence of the police, but so far this law has not known the substantive and criminal provisions regarding the conduct of police work or some form of police work. As far as false issuance for an official is concerned, there is actually one element in paragraph 1, namely that there is a need for an unlawful advantage. So someone appears to be an official in order to benefit himself or someone else, or to harm someone. What does that mean in practice? In practice, that means in those cases where someone issues a police officer and does a personal check on someone and takes his wallet and goes. This is, for example, one of these cases. The second paragraph, of course, says, “who commits an act that is justified by an official or military person only”, is a concrete act. If someone, as they say, walks across the border, it's very difficult to say he's doing an official act. That's why there's a diction and a provision here to excite appearances. As far as the law on the protection of public order and peace is concerned, article 11, paragraph 2, speaks, as some have already said, of the use of decorative weapons or of certain items that are similar to real weapons, and thus cause alarm or a sense of danger. What's the problem? The problem is that whenever someone feels upset and threatened, he has to tell someone clearly, and that, of course, tells the police. In this regard, however, the policeman shall write a payment order, whatever the case, and the details of that person shall also be given in this payment order. However, if there is a claim for the protection of the law, that is to say, an objection to these acts, which a police officer writes, is also made to a court for offences where that person must be exposed. And now I'm asking you how this person, who gets upset and feels threatened, will present the case in court because we know what the situation is about these things. We have a similar matter as far as noise is concerned. I would suggest that things can change here too. So you live in an apartment block where a neighbor plays music loudly, and you call a police officer anonymously because you don't want to expose yourself, because then you will receive some such or other feedback from this neighbor. And when a cop comes in, cops drive in a car, that person sees them driving, and he cuts the music. Cops come in and they don't get the music themselves. Because they don't detect it, there's no action. And of course, the bad will of a man who can't sleep all night. Here is the situation, which is said to be the responsibility now to justify the offence from a person who is upset or threatened to a policeman who detects it. It's just that it's actually that essential part of the matter. In itself, troublemaking, one way or another, or sympathy with some paramilitary forms can be very problematic. I'm going to use the method that we've actually repeatedly received from the other side, but I'm going to show some things. Look. [[shows photo]] This is a photograph of members of the guard who walked in the middle of the road in Kočevska River, along the middle of a public local road. Another photograph also shows some things that we can understand in one way or another. I'm here asking if they should have walked down the road, if they might have had permission to parade, if they might have had permission to block the road to afford it. Imagine people who live in these houses when military boots walk under their windows, and they know it's not police, and there's no army. How do they experience this? And imagine a man who, under the existing legislation, would stand out so much and say, but there's an unknown force walking under my window, and I'm afraid he'll have to say his name and last name, that he'll have to say his place, that he'll have to tell his EMSHA and maybe something else. And that, dear fellows, is settled. Let us put aside the migrant and the problem that is, let us focus on the situation that this case is trying to address. As far as the guards are concerned. If we followed these things through the media, one way or another we reacted differently. We can recall the statement made by some members with the following note: the police do not control the situation because they cannot, and they do not prevent illegal migration at all because the law does not allow it. And I am now wondering here how they will then be able to prevent illegal migration if, according to them, the police themselves cannot. Maybe with some new rules? Maybe some new laws? You know, I've been thinking, why don't members of the guard sign up as backup officers if they already have such a strong desire to help the police. I think the answer is simple — since we would not have received any media attention at that time, we would not have been anything special, nor would their commander be a star or have had any attention. And it is true that the security situation at the border is not good. Of course, there are illegal passages, individual break-ins, kidnappings have been and so on, I don't want to say that it's not a problem, of course it is. You know, but in our country, especially in the south-eastern part of Slovenia, we have areas where the security situation is much worse than it is here on the state border. I am thinking of the issue that I am dealing with in the Committee on the Monitoring of Roma Issues, which is close to Roma settlements, where the security issue is extremely poor. But there's no one there except the police. There is only one key police that can, of course, as many tools as are available, effectively prevent, detect, sanction and put in the process of a person who violates. There's no other way. I know why he's not here, and I believe you are. But if anyone doesn't know, God help him, I will. So, all these events that revolve around the guards are ridiculous for some, for others provocative, for others serious for others, but I say they are extremely dangerous and point to the path that humanity once went on, and it all ended very badly. And this time it will be if we do not act properly. That's why I'm going to support both marriages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister and representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Migrants, illegal state border crossings are not new – they were, they are, they will be. They were also when the guards were not yet established, so we should not have too many problems in dealing with this issue today. If I only refresh an old and excellent proverb on this subject that history is our excellent teacher, then the matter is quite clear. Para-military, para-police, village guards, various dedicated waters and other groups set up certain target groups in order to take over part of the executive powers of the state, especially the military and the police, of course, always for a good purpose. They excuse him with the necessary help of the state and citizens to live better and safer lives. However, usually the actual backgrounds and purposes of these individuals are significantly different and are only later recognized, sometimes unfortunately too late. This is also confirmed by the words of Andrej Šiška, founder of the Stajerska Varda, who declared that it was a voluntary defence group of free people of the Land of Styria, adding that they had already established the Land of Styersko with a parallel legal system, the Styrian justice. And to refresh the memory – Andrej Šisko is the President of the United Slovenia Party, who has run for President of the Republic in the last presidential elections! This is an obvious example of how an individual leader can take advantage of a certain part of a cheerleading group and begin to set up a guard, a guard, a country! We are already familiar with these samples from our former country when the cheerleading groups were used to destabilize the country and achieve political objectives. I don't want that anymore. Slovenia is a safe country, and law enforcement authorities successfully manage all the security challenges that occur within the country and that threaten beyond our borders. This is also evidenced by the successful management of the refugee crisis that occurred years ago. Slovenian police responded to this issue with determination, excellence and expertise and implemented it within a given legislative framework. That is why I strongly oppose the establishment of any guards, village guards and similar associations that would carry out any tasks and activities organized or unorganized by the military or the police. Every display of power and taking the right into their own hands is unacceptable and harmful both for citizens and for the reputation of our country, even if it is with the imitation of weapons or clothing. Usually it's just a matter of time before they trade it for the real ones. At a time when refugees and refugees are coming, it is an excellent opportunity to create and grow such structures with different ideologies, which do not belong at this time and in this social order of ours today. I am convinced that every citizen who is deceived is willing to assist the police in ensuring the security of the country, both within and within the country itself. It's nothing new. The concept of assistance and cooperation with the police, implemented in different forms, has been known for many years, but it is certainly a matter of cooperation, not taking on their tasks. From practice, I can say that this cooperation is at a good level in the border area of the Kolpe River. The locals, the owners of the walls and the plots shall inform the police of any suspicious persons staying in the area. And not just today, but they've been doing it since 1990. If I return to the reason for the changes in the legislation that we are discussing today. First of all, I think we are devoting much too much media space and attention to the self-proclaimed leader of the Styria Guard and similar cases. This only popularizes their actions and behavior. In such cases, police and judicial authorities must react quickly and effectively and in accordance with applicable legislation. However, if this is inappropriate, it should be amended quickly, so that all actions directed against the State's administration and the functioning of the competent national authorities are fundamentally affected. Therefore, I will gladly support the proposal for amendments to both laws, as it is only in this way that we can ensure a more successful functioning of law enforcement authorities, the security of the state and the reputation of the international community. It is particularly important that we do so now, at a time when the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is approaching. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is Jean-Mahnič, prepare Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, respected Boštjan Poklukar, who arouses the appearance of the Minister of the Interior! Yesterday, a caller named Marjan Sarec, in his sad speech, did some analysis of this mandate and said what they had done to somehow strengthen the police. If that were true, then colleagues and colleagues on the table today would not have these two laws, which are the result of this particular problem – that people do not feel safe at the border, that the border is for illegal migrants and that the police are not capable of saying that because I believe in our police officers, I believe they are capable of protecting the border, and I believe that they are probably enough for this task along with the military, and the problem is in politics. As long as the Minister of the Interior does not give the authority until the Minister of the Interior or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia protects the border in a way that prevents people from feeling threatened, it is said that the border would be protected as protected by the neighbouring Hungary – then even today would not have this law on the table. I think we're wondering about the wrong things today. The main question that we should ask ourselves today is why citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia prefer to go to the Styrian Guard rather than to the Slovenian Army or Slovenian Police. This government hasn't found an answer in a year and a half. Instead of looking for some consensus with the so-called Styrian Guard and the other guards to try to find an agreement on the basis of the existing law for some cooperation, you have made a guard your opponents. I think that in Slovenia there is still a law on societies that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is still allowed free collection, organisation, operation, association, and this law went against it. Everything that excites the appearance of some military officials, you have even talked about paramilitary people today – I hope we agree that ISIS is a paramilitary country, the Islamic State is not an official state, it is a paramilitary unit in short. Women in these paramilitary units wear clothes — what? Burke. So the burka is then a paratrooper's uniform that can be heard in the name of ISIS. Will you now tolerate these burkas if this law is passed? Will you tolerate these masked uniforms of the ISIS paramilitary unit, yes or no? I don't think you've covered every aspect of this marriage. What Lepi Šimenko used to say, the excitement of appearance – you know, this government to LMŠ Members stimulates the appearance of abilities, the SDS Members this government excites the appearance of incompetence. Who's right now? If you see a masked person in a military uniform at the border there, does it arouse the appearance of someone performing official duties, or does it not arouse the appearance of someone performing official duties? How will you assess that? Because he won't admit himself, just like the Prime Minister of the government did yesterday, when he gave up being incompetent. How about, according to the law, 100 meters from the hunting grounds? When someone's on guard, someone will be able to tell him, no, you didn't come here to wait for the game, but you're watching the border, and then you'll report back in case the migrants are illegally crossed. The law, which was written only for the purpose of doing something for the public, is a law that should not be passed in this House. If the coalition confirms it today, we also have the National Council of God, and you will not get 46 votes. It is really pointless that we are dealing with such proposals, which Mr, who under this law has drawn up the appearance of the Minister of the Interior, has called on a National Security Council without a representative of the largest opposition party, because in this mandate the National Security Council has been convened not for some serious problems that plague this country, but for the influence of a Croatian pastor on POP TV, and you have also demonstrated what security culture you are overcoming and what your priority is. Thank God that after this government is gone, no matter how mixed the cards after the election, someone will go back to cooking or moving their chairs. Because a lot of people got into too many shoes. I wish I could do what he has to do, not what he's told to do. I do not think that this law is ready to prevent just a certain part that has appeared in the media, but it is intended to prevent any self-organisation of citizens and citizens, even if it is well-intentioned. Even if it's well-intentioned. As long as the security authorities of the country are willing to defend citizens and citizens, their security, their property – because, in my firm belief, that is the basis for any further freedom, including personal – so long is the need for citizens and citizens to be allowed to defend themselves. However, if we had a protected border, if we had an adopted law already in the previous term, as we had on the table and the corrections proposed by the Minister of Home Affairs, it is said that no one from a safe country could come to us and today this law would not be necessary. We have an army, we have a police force – what have you done for the military and for the police to make the status better? You've done more for the police than you've done for the military, that's all. The equipment is better, and the wages have gone up, but there's no way to criticize everything. Perhaps this is also an indication that the Minister of the Interior was from the same party as the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government, but unfortunately we cannot say that for defence. If the Minister of Defence does not have support or does not wish to do so, then the situation in the Slovenian Army is as it is today. Believe me, people at the border would much rather see soldiers with the powers we had in the previous term, talk about Article 37a, legislate in the National Assembly, than watch this army move and how it all looks poorer. Of course, not because of soldiers and soldiers, but because of a ruling policy that does not listen to this problem. In my firm belief, the laws in Slovenia, as far as this area is concerned, are good. No exacerbation is required. I don't see what the Stair Guard did at the border. If landowners agree that there is a society or that there is a group that is trained in such or other skills, then it should be clocked. What if some society does some other activity along the border, I don't know, with katanas or some other props that cause the appearance of a weapon, or that this group excites the appearance of someone who appears to be something you've written in these articles here? In short, it is a law that is essentially the only thing that this ministry produced, that is something worth mentioning and that did not freeze the Constitutional Court until its decision, I am talking about those IMSI Catchers where you wanted to hunt, and so I will say, first of all my coalition partners, especially from SD, then all the others, but at least on the official path you failed. Now you want any form of those who want to unite, not against the government, not against Parliament, not against power, not against Ljubljana, but only to protect their property, to protect those who like to protect their family members. It was the court who convicted Shišek of some destruction of the constitutional system, whatever that means. I have never heard anyone in the country declare a country in Slovenia, even though it is said that there was an Istrian Parliament – how is that? I think that's when the National Party asked that question. Different interpretations, different answers, different concepts. This marriage will only bring about confusion, and what you want to do will not succeed under this law. Still, for one reason or another, someone will be able to patrol, if we say so, at the border. But he's gonna do it without a mask on, and he's gonna do it without a replica of guns. But instead of offering anyone who wants to help protect the state border, which is a civil society that wants to contribute to the security of this country, to the safety of our citizens and citizens, you offer a hand, you turn people away from themselves by such a law, you make them enemies, you put them on the other side. I think that Shishkova's guard, because this has created, would feel much more useful if the Ministry of the Interior gave her a hand, see, boys, girls – I don't know if there are girls there too, boys, I know that they are – let us change the statutes so that, in accordance with the law that allows civil cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and this organization of yours, society, whatever it is, you will patrol this part, you will inform us where the illegal border crossings are, and we will give you for that meal. Thus, a serious government would approach this; a government that should be aware that there is a shortage of personnel both in the police and in the Slovenian Army, and that without any serious technical obstacles, which are a prerequisite for effectively holding illegal flows, we cannot talk about effective protection of the state border unless we can strengthen the personnel of both bodies. I will therefore vote against the law myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word to prepare Franci Kepa.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! In the National Assembly, we sometimes agree on certain matters with our colleagues, but on the one hand and on the other, moments and laws come where they do not exist, and this is one of those about which they probably do not. There was a discussion that the military at the border had no authority. The Minister and the Director-General of Police said that if the police demanded it, these powers of military at the border would also be given. Since this request was not made, the military does not have these powers at the border. Now you're saying the border is clear. As far as I know, there are two borders, one is Slovenian and one is Croatian. As far as I'm aware, there are very, very, very many illegal migrants coming through the Croatian filter, because that's where this defense doesn't detect it. I think that one part of the problem also exists in a country that is supposed to meet some Schengen criteria that I think are not. With this amendment of the two laws, the government has practically sent a proposal that responds to the formation of these so-called paramilitary and civil movements, which, in their work, impede the work of the police in protecting the border and mimic some forms of police and their tasks, which are exclusively the responsibility of state protection authorities such as the police and the military. Here today we can talk about whether the work of the police is effective and good enough, I certainly agree with my colleague Mahnic, and I believe that the work of the police is good and that they are working hard for their tasks, but there is no way that we can argue about who will do these things in our country, because they are the competent security authorities that we have given them these powers to do so. And yes, in the budget, the Ministry of the Interior's funds went up, new equipment got bought, police got higher salaries, which allows for their better performance and, of course, better work. Now, despite the fact that many experts have given their opinion on what we are dealing with today, the United Nations Security Council has also responded and said that such units are militias or anything that can destabilize peace and can constitute some new forms of extremism, violence and disrespect for some military formations. I think that we are all aware that there are certain similar events that have gone in another direction — I am not saying that it will happen or that we can, but we know the direction they have gone and the history they have brought us. Last but not least, other European Member States, including France, which has substantially tightened the penalties, are more than proposed in this bill, namely a year in prison, €15 000 in a similar case. The German Ministry of the Interior said that the start of such groups meant potential extremism and that it was not only about stopping migration or intimidation but also about controlling political opponents. I am concerned about the emergence of such organisations, whether justified or unjustifiable, and I am also concerned about the European Union's non-response to this migration issue in the past, and I hope that this new European Commission will make this better and that we will get some kind of legislation at the European level that will make this possible. Certainly, however, it is not the reason that people now voluntarily take the law and police tasks into their own hands and parade around with weapons, whatever. And certainly, if any individuals want to help the country, they know where this city is and they can join both the police and the military, and they can adequately protect and pursue the goals they are pursuing on behalf of the country. However, I agree that some urgent security check on people entering our country is necessary. Finally, we can agree that those who come to our country legally and for some purpose or reason may be welcome, and those who enter here illegally are not and are properly sanctioned and returned to where they came from. We also know what the problem is in international protection, not least recently the Commissioner for Home Affairs has been here, and she has made it clear that the common asylum system will change because it is currently not the most effective and that the European Union is not fully prepared for some similar scenarios as it was in 2015 and 2016. By saying that people cannot defend themselves, I think everyone has the right to defend themselves in accordance with the law, and I personally fear that such groups in our country could arouse some discomfort of the population and lead to something that we do not want in our country. However, it is true that in accordance with this law, every case that is reported to the police will be dealt with individually and people will just be closed down, each one in a row when they go to a public gathering, because it is still lawful under the law and will, so I do not know. As I say, I myself will support the bill in accordance with the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you very much. He has the word Franci Kepa, to prepare Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I do not support these activities of the Government by this law, nor punishment nor activity. Because now we have both the police and the army at the border and the guards at the border, and it's still too small. Because if we have refugees growing up, twice a year, three times a year, it is said that something is wrong and that we are taking action against some groups that have organised and gone to the border, I think this matter is inappropriate and unnecessary. If the matter were good and functioning at the border to protect the border regularly and well, that would not be necessary. You wouldn't even have to call the army to help. The military doesn't have powers, they don't even have weapons, so all of this is like some kind of masquerade, you'd say, at home. We should close the border more or place people or techniques, help prevent illegal migrants from coming to us. Some come from battles, I have my opinion that where there is war and they come to us as refugees, they would be welcome or they would be helped for a few years to recover in the territory where the war is. But there are mostly younger men coming to us who should be down on the battlefield, not women older than when we were offering help to over 70,000 people during the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the time, we did not have younger men, nor did the older men, and most of them were old men, women with children. This number was very large, over 70,000 people, as I mentioned, and the Greeks are crying, if there are 35 to 40 thousand there, they are shouting and screaming and how hard it is to endure it. I think it will be necessary, even when the new government, the new minister, the interior minister, with the help of the government comes. This is a very difficult matter, and this will have to be done better than it is now. Security needs to be more effective because what it is now is nothing like any other. Because, here, I live 50 kilometers away from the border, and we meet refugees on a regular basis, and we meet them in the street during the day. Last time a dog friend went down the creek, three tents were set up in the evening. It is said that there will be more and more, and it will be dangerous to walk in your own place at night, 50, 60 kilometers in the center of the border. And we're playing here with some punishment people who want to help. Whether this is the right way or not, if the matter were to work, if the police were to act well, that would not be necessary. As far as these uniforms are concerned. These uniforms are also somewhere else, there as masks stand at some monuments, when NOB are holidays, and there are guns, even real guns or real weapons, and there is no talking about it. Why didn't this happen 15 years ago? For 15 years these masquerades have been standing there. Now it's necessary. I won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word. But get ready for Igor Patchek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to the guests from the Ministry. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! So we have in mind the Law on State Border Control and the Law on Public Order and Peace. They are important by name, namely the rules on how we will actually look after our territory and the rules on how we will ensure public order and peace in this territory. So what are the changes? The Law on Public Order and Peace refers to changes in the use of dangerous items, as well as new replicas of weapons, and false weapons are said to be no longer to be worn if they were to be brought into the hands of officials. If I touch these costumes and these appearances of people who then also sometimes move around our forests. These are large and the first, the penalties are high, but the laws are written too wide, too wide, unspecified. This will only make it very difficult to carry out and then to execute and punish offenders. For this reason, I do not think the matter is ripe for further consideration, but the penalties are, say, between 200 and 1,000 euros very high, and then I believe that the Minister has taken some proposals from the coalition and, above all, those who have somehow become afraid. I have a feeling that the profession that is squeezing this marriage is completely freaked out, and today the minister and his help are also giving me this feeling that our officers are scared, which is really bad. What signal do we now give to our future arrivals that we are all scared and that they will come even more? And our children, too. In 1991, Slovenians were a terriblely corrupt nation, and we also showed that we can be united. I don't know where our country would be today. It probably wouldn't be if it were that weak. Both draft laws respond to the situation and fear of establishing these informal associations, some civil associations, as well as these so-called Styria Guards. So, fear of the Styrian Guard causes us to write some laws, complicate them for an hour, and then we want the police to have more success in protecting our borders. Indeed, the question now arises of how to separate between those who cause or cause public unrest and those who are actually somehow associated. We have different associations that are uniformly dressed, among them I will count adult Slovenian scouts, adult Slovenian campers, then Sokol – I think they have nice uniforms, uniforms at least, or more than a hundred years old – and so on. And now, who are the ones who can't actually wear such clothes; whether they're green or masked or red? In general, I still need to touch on the fact that we have a kind of urgency, and I don't know why such a necessity for this law is even in this latest event, which is likely to only unfold in the coming days when the Government is withdrawing, but we are actually accepting some things that are not important at all, but we are not addressing the problem of protecting our territory on the southern border, which means that we have poor protection. I'll take one statement from the reader's comment on the article on Portal 24 hours. He says: “The Members would use more time to deal with the cause of the appearance of the guard than with the Styrian Guard alone, which is only a consequence of the event at the border. If we were to take care of our borders first, there would be no security for these and no other guards. Any such law will return to us, honest citizens, in the form of a limitation of freedom “and then the end of the comment. [[…]] So it's a restriction on freedom of dress. I completely agree with him. Most citizens, especially those at the border with Croatia, are called the Schengen borders, especially those who are clearly concerned about the border. If we were to worry well, it would not be like today that it came in 2019, by the end of November there are data, 15,000 people illegally in Slovenia and then onward. Which means 15,000 people, 4 thousand people have one congregation in my bezirk. About 18,000 have my constituency. So these numbers are approximate; for an election circuit of arrivals they came. How many more of them did we find invisible? And now you can walk through our halon forests, through vineyards, after, I don't know, high-planted corn and nothing, we're not successful, but here we're making a big cow because of these clothes, I'll say, societies. Among them is one such society called, I don't know, the Airsoft Society – these guys actually have a good way of recreation, a healthy way of life, and they're dressed like the Styrian Guard. So, Airsoft companies shut down immediately or even, I don't know, shut down the leaders. I mean, a little bit, I'll say we're through. Now I wonder if this new law will also apply to those foreigners who dress in their own and uniform ways. I must also say that my task in this House is fully known; that is to speak for the citizens and citizens of Slovenia, for our Slovenia, even for the Slovenian Styria, and in this instance I do not see any such indication in this, that it would be similar to what I am advocating. That's why I'm going to stand firm against it, and I'm not going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Igor Peček has the word. Get ready for Marco Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't want to get too attached to the discussions of colleagues and colleagues who were ahead of me. I think that we all know what the interest of all of us is, no matter what area we come from and what the purpose of our work is. However, here at the outset I would only be referring to national security, the one that we have identified or touched in some way from different angles to it. We must not forget, or I believe, that we do not forget that the provision of national security is a constitutional category and that avoiding the fact that it is simply and only bound to state authority is impossible and unfair, also incorrect. The sovereignty of the State, whether from an internal point of view or from an external point of view, is said to have certain elements and forms linked to such or other forms of coercion in relation to certain international relations or to the international community. No one has the right to in any way imitate the work of the police in protecting the state border or in any way imitate the work of the police and take over its tasks. In the proposal for both laws, one key issue is the prohibition and sanctioning of an individual or group of people who would engage in such behaviour, whether wearing masks, wearing or using gun imitations, acting in a manner that interferes with the tasks and responsibilities that are solely in the domain of the official security or police or military authorities. The Slovenian security authorities shall consist of persons who, in order to carry out their tasks, are adequately educated, trained, trained, have all the necessary competences and knowledge to carry out those tasks. They are complex and we also understand the possible fear that occurs in areas close to the border when we encounter illegal migration. I would like to refer to the statement made by some experts, who have identified themselves to such a form, where certain groups are trained, patrolled, supervised or even ambushed, in such a way that it is very problematic. This is the performance of tasks that are typical military-police tasks. I don't know how to compare it to some company that's involved in, I don't know, scouting activities, and I don't think it's appropriate to compare it to a suit, like, a masked military -- in a rumor -- of some group members. The tasks which are and are performed exclusively within the competence of the security authorities and attempt to be identified or carried out also in the form or by the conduct of certain other groups, as soon as possible before they bring peace and additional security, are causing destabilisation. Peace and a sense of security is lost, there are various forms of extremism and violence, and there can also be resistance to the violent behaviour of those treated in such a way, which, on the one hand, is understandable, because most of the time such behaviour stems from a sense of powerlessness, is the result of fear, and the consequences that can then become critical to both sides may become fatal. We have also seen this in cases that have occurred in the near past, such as in the European Union area or in individual Member States. As far as sanctions or penalties are concerned — yes, I might also share the view that in certain cases they are too low when there is a real case of exploitation of such groups, which could also lead to some extreme extremism, which could also become uncontrollable. However, I am not neglecting the successful work of the official security authorities when it comes to cooperation with the general public or, if you wish, with the general public. The provision of information on offences committed, criminal offences to official security authorities facilitates their work. This has also been said several times by the Minister to cooperate with local communities, both with the inhabitants, which some of the activities have been carried out in this direction, and to implement the measures that follow, and I believe that it must remain exclusively within the competence of the security authorities. It is not necessary to fulfil the condition that you can cooperate with security authorities, wear any disguised clothing, regardless of who we are reminded of, or imitate various weapons or forms of weapons, as we also cause restlessness and lose the sense of security that is urgently needed for the inhabitants of these areas. Once again, I am absolutely convinced that only the police have all the necessary qualifications, experience and knowledge to carry out such tasks. At the same time, I do not ignore or consider this in a way that, when there is an appropriate decision to increase this control also through the cooperation of the military, which is one of the three subsystems in addition to the intelligence and internal security systems, we can put together – or already have – a single security system and only in this context can we carry out certain activities related to the protection of the state border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. Get Natasa Sukich ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you, President, for your word. I'll be very brief. I'll just say a little bit of the point here. It's a very smart thing to have these government two laws ahead of us, which I think you're going to be handling at last. It seems absurd to me that we're wondering here: guard yes, guards don't. The guards have nothing to do! Who invented these things here? In what way do we even ask ourselves about this matter and give so much meaning to all of this; we give them so much time on TV, and some people do it on this account and everything else they need to do. That's absurd! It's absurd that we have eight hours of debate here on this. Who? That's pretty clear! It is unacceptable to organize some paramilitary self-proclaimed organizations to protect our borders. Who said that? Where do you see that? This was never the case in any country — such a thing. It's just here we always have to make up some special things. The army is helping. Isn't the army here to help? I have read, straight roads, to make better transportation for police officers, I mean cooperate with them, not having authority, but working together, which is also right, I support absolutely, it should be even more. And let them do it together. The police have this task and the police have to complete this matter. If the police have problems, we need to work out where these problems are. I don't understand certain questions. How can we even let something like that happen? We have to take laws that I mean, it's not understandable this thing here. [[…]] You know, since I was the mayor, I had one very exclusive case; they were stealing and breaking into houses throughout the congregation of Komen. When they went to the house in 14 days six times, I made a municipal assembly in Stanjel, and there was a direct broadcast to Slovenia on TV 1. And what did they think that we would organize some village guards? No, we wanted the police to come in there and tell the citizens how to handle it, how to manage it, how to protect ourselves, what to look after, what to do. Because it's the police's job. It wasn't a mission to create some guards like this and different. The same problem is here with us: we have a body dealing with it, if there is a problem inside, we need to solve it, we need to say what it is – I trust the minister anyway, because I know that he knows how to do it. I think the law's fine, too. We're wasting hours and hours here, and I don't know why, because it's totally out of touch. It is best for each individual to start protecting his own home — or what? What are we in 1800 on Far West?Oh, my God! I don't know what we're thinking. Now we're gonna get the guns? Italy adopted a law called self-defense — I don’t know if you know — Salvini accepted it. Salvini is a little bit of a man of his own kind, so that everyone at home can do their own defenses the way they want. I think so! Then we see what happened around the world, they shot a neighbor, they shot no one, and the third one, and it was an accident, and we know it wasn't an accident or something. We're in Europe here, we're in Europe! That's why we're also asking, of course, our organs, our officers to protect us. We don't need any guards! Do you know what kind of fear these people have at the border? They're more afraid of guards than when they see those four migrants coming through there. Poor guy after all. It's true, because they're not allowed to come in, and I agree, because there's a thousand problems that they have to be careful about. But that's not the problem! We have certain organs and these organs must deal with our security. If that's flawed, but it's another question, we'll solve it in a second instance, but don't give me the terms of security here, okay? What kind of guard? Who is this guard? What do we give her that much importance? No connection! Then some, which is the greatest absurdity of absurdity, do advertising in this way, and they do propaganda, political paths and seek consensus among people that it is not what it is and what it is for the poor who come across. Of course you have to stop them, of course you have to control them, I'm the first to say it, absolutely. I have already said three times in Parliament that immigration must be regulated. We need a controlled immigration law, but we don't need security, and I don't know what. We have so many deficient professions that we could otherwise get in. The migrant is already a Bosnian, because it is not in the European Union. So he needs different documents and everything that needs to be done. And we'd take a lot of people with our wide arms because they're good guys to work with. We should take these things here and talk about it, but no, guard yes or guard no. And we wonder what it is and what it isn't and who will now protect our home. It's the police's job, and the police have the task of protecting us and protecting us from everything. I hope that this law will be different now, so I will also support this matter. So much for me. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In view of the fact that we have heard from the predecessors that this meeting that is taking place is a long time, I also suggest that it is a shameless thing to stop it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your proposal. Natasha Sukic has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Although in the face of the threat I am listening to, one would in fact prefer to remain silent because such an absurd theater was not a beautiful witness, but clearly when I am on the wallpaper of the darkness that brings you back to the refugees or migrants, when such agony is against them all the time, it is a wonderful mile to rejuvenate once again the varied hate speech here in the National Assembly and to sell the fog, why these laws that are before us on the table are actually necessary, even though I have clearly proved today that they are not necessary because we already have the right legislation. Do not tell me that in 2020 Slovenia does not have the appropriate legislation to prevent the operation of a paramilitary formation in an effective way if only it wanted to. You gotta be kidding me! In 2018 they appeared, we all watched photographs of them being trained in the Pohorje in the woods; some formation with uniforms there literally hara with rifles, is now showing a clear, loud and public hunt for people. And we're moving here. I also said why we're moving, because if you haven't acted on what these laws are allowing you to do today, then you have to do a blinding maneuver. That's one reason. This blind maneuver is now like some better legislation that will now suddenly solve the issue of guarding, but I am clearly told earlier who this legislation is directed at. Of course, she is so delighted that she will end up sanctioning those protestors who may have protests for a cleaner environment, for a cleaner Kolpo or protest against cutting wire or something. Basically, you'll put everything on the same denominator. At the end of the day, nothing will happen to the Vardists. These people parade around the border in uniforms by mimicking some acne in their hands and so on. Don't tell me when the police see such a formation, they don't have the authority to act. Just don't ask me to sell these things or sell them to the Slovenian public! Because it's too big. See if you, as chief security consultant, choose someone who would be the director of Sova and who had previously hidden information, in previous mandates, about the existence of extremist groups, then, excuse me, you can't expect anything other than such absurd proposals as — what are they doing? They turn a crime into a crime, what should be a prison sentence turns into a fine. Is that supposed to stop the guard now? I mean, if that's gonna stop the guard, then I don't know. Watch out, what else is the guard doing? Not only does he parade in masked uniforms, but he controls the occasional border with some wooden or real rifles in his hands. Even if it violates our airspace, this country obviously has no legal basis to act on. I don't know what kind of country we live in and what we're actually going to do! After all, if things were as urgent and serious as you want to show them now – the security appeared in 2018. However, the government performed its work less than a year and a half ago. It took you a year and a half to start doing what you need now. Like you don't have enough stunners, IMSI hunters, drones, there's nothing you don't have, what powers you haven't already got, but you'd have more powers. I have clearly demonstrated the logic of where the fascism of society really begins — in offices, with laws so written that allow for the strengthening of repression in ways we witness. I've shown nicely before in the case of a famous historical case that, excuse me, the world paid the price, the whole world paid the price in the form of 50 million human casualties. It leads to this sort of thing in the end. Yesterday we celebrated here the memory of the Holocaust, and we all choke on one voice, how this must never and never happen again. Everyone, left, right, we all agree here that this can't happen again, but it's happening again, in front of us! By choosing new on-call culprits, and these are now refugees who, some say, are bluffers and economic migrants and I don't know what. In fact, what we can expect from a government that has now resigned, which has not done anything to bring this disgrace that the previous government has placed on our border, is a real cutting wire, so that it would be better to deal with such completely antihuman measures and this shame, literally a historical shame that will be ashamed of our craftsmen in 20 years or 30 years from now, simply remove. No, no, no. We'd have more authority, more repression, and we'd pretend we don't have enough marriage grounds to stop some security guard laughing in our face. Their sheriff's behind bars because he's supposed to be trying to disrupt constitutional arrangements, but his soldiers are happy to parade, and some of them even say how helpful they are. Yeah, well, then let's do it. Each of us will dress up in a mask uniform, get a weapon, and each of us will stand in front of our own doorstep if we're so threatened by the hordes that come from where, and they'll infect us with various infectious diseases, and I don't know what will infect us all of the hordes that are coming. I mean, this is really like that. No, really! [[…]] Actually, there's nothing you can do but shut up. Because this is a serious horror. At the same time, when you see what was happening in Nazi Germany, you will now introduce similar methods — on behalf of what? On behalf of humanity or something else, really? Look, it's such a shame that I'm gonna stop at this point, and it's no longer worth commenting on, and if I've been hit by replicas here a hundred times by anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you very much. As the last of the reported debaters, he gets the word mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. To all who speak of the Holocaust, I would advise that they first examine the source of that word and the source of those acts. For Karl Marx is the one who invented the word Holocaust and is the first to be used in this regard, when he said that the less developed nations, he was a great racist, they must disappear into a fiery holocaust. Go ahead and search the Internet. In fact, Nazism and socialism are just two faces of one and the same evil, one and the same totalitarian evil. Wrap it up with fascism. Who actually invented this entanglement? You won't believe it. There's a Stalim out there in Russia who's very fond of using it to disqualify his opponents. What does fascism really mean? Fascism, by the way, is based on the same doctrine, by the fact that the role of the State and some institutions are further strengthened, but the basis is the same again. Isn't that interesting? Why is there so much emphasis on who was against fascism and Nazism? Yeah, so we don't notice that I'm doing the same thing! Everything is exactly the same crime, the same evil and Europe, as regards Europe in the positive sense of the word, has long been cleared up. As a result of this, the European resolution against totalitarianism, which this Parliament regret – I myself was twice a proponent – has never been able to confirm that it would condemn equally the crimes of fascism, Nazism, communism, all that is really based in its depths on Karl Marx, his abominable racism and his invention of the Holocaust. Karl Marx is the one who invented the Holocaust and he's responsible for what happened later. As far as some of the discussions were concerned, they were very graphic. What happened was exactly what I had predicted was that he was starting to get mixed up with some fascism and I don't know what. I would remind you once again of the words of Wilk Bruce, who said under the red star, I support the most of Mr Šišek, because he is more committed to the values of NOBs, the extradition of NOBs than all those who are official candidates, including Borut Pahor. That says a lot. Even more, if you want to be told about the display of the guards, there in Dražgoša, you have, say, the head of the Kranj Guard, the Duke of Kastiger with Tanja Fajon or, say, with the President of the National Assembly here you also have him, say, with Mr Kučan, and I could show you something. So those who talk about the fans behind the guard are obviously very large. That's it. Now we can start talking seriously. Guards aren't really the problem. The problem is that this government has been unable to ensure the safety of citizens and citizens, particularly those at the border. You know, when your strangers are wandering under a window in the middle of the night, and the women are no longer alone out there, when they're stoned by a kid who rides his bike to school, one young girl, because everything, as you know, has already happened, then of course every joke is over. If the state is unable to prevent this, people are trying to organise themselves, and this diversion of attention to guards is only to avoid anything serious happening, in my opinion, I have said this before. What are really the village guards that showed up? This is a chronic proof of the complete incompetence of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the leadership of Marjan Šarc. If security were assured, nothing like that ever occurred to anyone. Admitting it is yesterday's government resignation. It's just, unfortunately, too late. What the kitchen, including the political kitchen, would call a reduction or a remnant, after things have healed, these two laws are the real shame. Instead of talking today about how to protect the border, how to protect people, how to tighten legislation against those who are mass abusers of the right to asylum, and, of course, against all those who are rich — for it is only money that is left - handed. It's just money, your money, the one you pick up from the pockets of ordinary citizens and citizens, and then divide the different ideologies of LGTB-based NGOs, so that they can then delay procedures to go down and give information, programs and everything else to illegal migrants to make it easier to break the border protection and come to Slovenia. Then you sell them here and you take them to Parliament, how they're poor and I don't know what else to do, and they leave their children on their own declaration where the state of war is supposed to be – if that's true, because then it's more or less complicated. This is really what we should be talking about today about how to stop this funding of these NGOs, who are openly — even boasting — helping to incur illegal migrants into the Republic of Slovenia. The highlight of all this is that, for the last time, at a press conference, they have even allowed themselves to demand that thousands of illegal migrants be accepted immediately from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now there's something you need to know. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, all of these are already well fed up because they have committed an incredible number of crimes, violence, beatings, and even the worst have taken them away for a while, they have been in a special camp there – this is now abandoned. But who's really coming now? There are very interesting and problematic people coming, and all of this is unbelievable. There were activists or soldiers among them all the time, if you want, even though the soldier here is too beautiful an expression, say, terrorists, that would be the right expression, ISIS. According to an official statement – check it out if you don't believe me – when the then President of the British Government visited the Middle East, he was warned when he left that there were at least 2% of people who were proven or terrorists themselves or directly associated with ISIS terrorists or Al Qaeda. 2%! If anyone thinks it's small, it's enough to make a network all over Europe, that's with this mass that came to Europe, at least ten, and probably at least twice as many people. And that's the army that's ready. Europe is also helping them with their crazy moves. It's as if an enemy who wants to attack you has placed himself in strategic positions so that he can attack you more easily. Because I'm going to tell you again the problem. If all that was happening were people from a culturally similar environment, like, what I know, Ukraine, it wouldn't be a problem at all. We'd integrate well, we'd get caught, we'd see this in Poland, we'd find work and no problem. The problem is that what's coming, ladies and gentlemen, is radical Islam. This is what they decide and talk about mainly those who have no idea what radical Islam is — for them the world is a war; for them we are with them in war. This is where we listen to talk about the religion of peace, and I don't know what everyone's talking about. And then, when you mention something like that, they refer, say, to Bosnia. The Bosniaks are for those who come, the guilty believers, you need to know that, and they don't integrate, they'll never integrate. Whoever thinks that should look at who was the most infamous jihad joe, the butcher who cut his necks live on the ISIS movies they launched. In fact, it was some surgeon from two generations of already living radical Muslims in Britain who was the most promising child surgeon in Britain. And it came to pass, when it was said, The jihad, and the dead went cold, and left all that was, and went and cut his necks. That, ladies and gentlemen, is radical Islam! This one never integrates, the same self gets ghettoized, shuts itself down, so then comes all those crimes out of honor, as it's called, when parents kill their own daughter because she went with someone who, according to them, is not a radical Muslim. Of course, this is the perfect suicide for Europe. This is the greatest danger in fact, because it means erasing everything that seems to us to be self-evident. This means the end of Slovenia, this means the end of human rights, this means the end of European civilisation. You need to be aware of what you're dealing with, not immediately, but gradually, that's all that's going on. That's why he's hiding the information I said before, so he's hiding the judgments of the courts, so he's coming to Parliament with laws like those before us today. This is all one and the same project, which in some ways, shamefully, but symbolically symbolizes the break-up of the Marrakesh global agreement on safe, legal and orderly migration. Of course, everything before that, which would make everything that's going on legal, because now it's not. This is really all illegal, and someone should answer for it, and instead of talking about it, we talk about such nonsense as this law or the law that is before us today. I submit that whoever participated in the drafting of these texts, in their adoption, behind the back of the public, behind the back of Parliament – Parliament did not know about this – when the text was confirmed and these matters were being prepared. This, this is treason, should be responsible for it, even criminally. But whoever puts people across the border and does everything he can, should answer, if not the other, because of the sloppy work at work. Pretty embarrassing stuff, but I'm not talking about those who work at the border, which they can do, right, and work night and day, and some work without food, drink, literally, just to protect Slovenia. But for those who are responsible, here, in the coalition and the government, do not provide them with what they need: proper replacements, support, finance, wages, everything they need for their work, especially military powers. Now, the government has resigned. This was the chronic recognition of this government's incompetence, a year and a half too late, but the laws are just ahead. We're still listening to how, I don't know, on behalf of some fake humanism, we're still giving more money to these NGOs to make it even easier, I don't know, to work for. For strangers. But I'll tell you one time, ladies and gentlemen left-handed, go work! Do something good for Slovenia and stop doing nothing but damage. This applies to all those in NGOs inside, LGBT ideologies that deal with what I do not know, only things that would be in favour of Slovenia, but certainly not. And don't tell me about human rights, because you don't know what it is! What are human rights? The first and fundamental human right of every Slovenian citizen, every citizen, every child, is to have the right to live safely, is the right to personal integrity. This is the basis of everything, and every government should first do everything in its power to ensure this. Now that the government has resigned here, some have started to organize themselves, it's a little too much now for the pyar, and now you come with such laws. These laws are really unnecessary. If we want to sanction any false representation for an official, it is already possible for the current law, if it is a false person. If we want to sanction the use of weapons in a public place and similar things, all of this is sanctioned by the legislation already in force. Of course, the legislation in force does not sanction such nonsense as the Slovenian government has ridiculed them when we read in the press release, “that a plastic toy, an imitation of a weapon was seized, and sent for further investigation.” End of quote. I mean, what investigation? Is that how you spend our money? The one we should use to protect these people at the border, none of what we are talking about today would come to mind. It's a real state. Sweden was mentioned. The European Commissioner for so-called migrants, refugees, or whatever you say to them, there are no refugees in Europe, certainly not in Europe, except those Ukrainians who fled from the pro-Russian forces then to Poland, but also to some other countries – they are the only refugees in Europe, and of course, the abuse of the asylum system is nothing else. It is also allowed to walk around and cross 10 safe countries, including members of the European Union, and then you come to Slovenia and you make an application for asylum here. It's called official law, if anyone knows a little bit of real asylum shopping. This is a crime, which was prosecuted until a few years ago. Even international seminars were about how to prevent asylum shopping. Today, some offer this as a human right here. Don't mess around. This is still illegal, only the problem of this government and this Europe is that it no longer respects its own laws; for a foreigner all but nothing at home. Or: Pay home for the consequences of such a policy. As for Sweden, which promotes the adoption of refugees and predicts what measures I do not know. For the first time, I would show her the door very quickly, and with all due respect personally, and for the second time, they should first sweep a little before their threshold. I have two cousins in Sweden and I happen to know what's going on there. You've got over 50 no-goo zones there where cops don't even hope with armors. There you have inn, where young Swedes go, which are the most normal thing in their lives: I go for one beer, and then the Sharia police come in, grab a glass, smash it on the girl's face, point out the eye, show it for life, and then when they call the police, the police don't find out who did it. [[…]] That the announcement that an unknown perpetrator should be sought, and not in any case, as far as I know, did not find in such things who did it. Yes, that's the problem, ladies and gentlemen! And this Slovenia is waiting for if there is no end to this madness, which we have partly witnessed here today, and which is happening now, unfortunately, for several years. The problem will also be what will happen to Europe in the end. I submit that no matter should have an advantage over this issue. We're dealing with all the security issues, but Erdoggan was crystal clear who wanted to listen to him. By the way, what I quoted earlier, Mr Erdoggan, is the words of one of their poets from the time of the Ottoman Empire, which Erdoggan repeated, and some others after them. But it's very important because Erdoggan said it. Let us repeat this: “Moshes are our fortresses, the domes are our helmets, the believers are our soldiers.” And he said something else that we should be much more concerned about if we understand what radical Islam is. Erdoggan said this, quote from the memory: “Measurable Islam is only profanity, and Islam is always radial.” End of quote. Find him online if you don't believe him. And this is what Europe negotiates, of course, forcing it. This is why Europe always draws this short and will draw this short. That's the thought of it, he's showing it in a very different way at home. Anyone who can read those pages of theirs a little can also do a translation into English can see how they actually publish these things in Turkey. When Mrs Angela Merkel comes to see him and then here we hear how wonderfully she was negotiating, the announcement in Turkey is: “The Crusaders have already come to kneel before the feet of Sultan Erdogan.” Such an approximate translation of what they publish is that you can even imagine what this mentality is like. The problem is that this radicalizes, and it won't end and it can't end well. So what does Slovenia have to do? It must, once again, take care of itself first of all of the relevant legislation and, of course, it must ensure that those who will also respect this legislation in full compliance with it. Nothing helps if you have a government and you have justice and law enforcement doesn't work as it should. What did justice do at that time? Justice began to hide judgments, legal judgments on illegal migrants for no legal reason whatsoever. But simply because someone doesn't like it, because they want to talk about how we are who warn them that it's stupid, what's going on, and that we're gonna get real revenge for being ugly, and those who are coming, but they're great. This is how they create a category of two kinds of people, which is extremely unacceptable, but always has been, but always will be. This is already happening under this government in Slovenia, which is the responsibility of this government. If someone sitting right next to me opens a hairdresser's lounge, there'll be an inspection, see how high the ceilings are, whether this is the right counters, whether it's the right tool or if it's all properly disinfected, it's in line with the regulations. But when Ahmad Shamieh does that, who should have been expelled a long time ago, he doesn't, but he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't. Furs – he's an illegal migrant, but he's not. But there's no problem here, but he can break all the laws, but no, let the neighbor steal the car and break it, because the judge will then make sure they give it somewhere to go, and they'll stop the proceedings. But that's really how it happens. Ladies and gentlemen, it was exactly the same thing in Sweden. This is the process of Swedishing Slovenia, which is now taking place. This is why young people are now moving out of Sweden, the richest families are moving out, businesses are moving out, everything is moving to Poland, Hungary, to those countries that are safe. But, of course, more illegal migrants are coming. And if you import a third world, you get a third world. Sweden is today unfortunately becoming the third world in front of the whole of Europe. One earlier than referring to culture and relevant activity, he also cited Marcon’s France. If you look at the relationship Macron is doing with the police, with his own citizens, specifically with the yellow vests, to what violence – the last time we could see them being beaten like a crazy 85-year-old. Not long ago, he rounded up the video when someone who only held one banner and was on a wheelchair, a man who was completely disabled, couldn't defend himself, couldn't do anything to anyone, just expressed an opinion in the context of a legal protest that belonged to him as a right under the fundamental charter of human rights, turned him over, knocked him over on the floor and, by the way, pushed him down with a tear, and something I forgot. This is the way the French, or Macron, treat their own citizens! Therefore, please, do not set this as an example of how Europe should act. Because then I'd start talking about fascism, right? Everything could have been settled in Slovenia a few years ago without the slightest problem if it were done in a timely manner. This has been delayed and, of course, the situation is the way it is. Therefore, it is now necessary to do something different. First of all, these laws need to be put in the trash. What is problematic here is already sanctioning existing legislation. There is no need to change the laws in order to prosecute someone who falsely claims to be an official. But if someone's playing something, it's a different story. However, the matter has several other elements that are not even funny, unfortunately they are rather tragic – that are suggested by those who then parade themselves at various events, where people carry real weapons. Then I always ask if it's disabled. Even if, for you will not believe, read the Weapons Act, it says that whatever you do with weapons is forbidden to do in such a way that you upset the public. And believe that those who are related to all those hundreds of thousands of Slovenes and Slovenes who have been killed by beasts after the war are alive, young people are walled in the grave pit by revolutionaries or partisans, whatever you tell them, they are very upset when these parades occur. These parades are done on purpose in this way to provoke. Dražgoš – What do we have to celebrate? There was no victory here, there was a terrible tragedy of domestics that you could only regret, not any victory. That's the only thing that turned into a fake legend. If you once know that, then you wonder what this country really wants. This country has become a strange red island, the only one behind people, against the will of its citizens and citizens. Ask them, I said to write a referendum on the Marrakesh Treaty or a global agreement on safe and orderly and legal migration, as it is called. As a result, we are increasingly lonely. The Austrians have long since adequately protected the border and have now said publicly that they will not accept any more migrants, nor within the framework of European quotas. Read it and think about what it means. The Italians are about to give a horrendous shoe to the current government, and then the connection between Salvini and Berlusconi will come back. Now only where the most red parts, such as Emilia-Romania, have achieved incredible success close to half, but sometimes they were all right together at 15% to imagine what a shift this is. When that happens, Slovenia will remain so lonely that it will not know what else to do. For God's sake, go to the government, no matter what you're now, just scientists, and look for partners where we really have the only honest allies. Well, that's the Multi-Grace Group. They're the only honest allies I've ever defended, and I always will. For my sake, the European Parliament can adopt another 50 resolutions against the Poles, and I am not at all interested in who voted for it, either against Hungary or against anyone else, but they are still a model for Europe. Because they know how to protect their own nation because they protect their own identity because they protect their own people because they do not give priority to foreigners. That's a big problem. In what country we have found ourselves if foreigners can afford to steal an A3 audio, and this country has to break it down, instead of detaining them, which is most normal in such a case, it is nice to give them to an asylum home and allow them to leave in time, otherwise they must formally initiate the procedure, and then the prosecutor finds that they have left and that it would be disproportionate to initiate such a procedure according to the minority of the crime committed. By the way, the concept of this crime is no longer in the Code, read it. I don't know what the Justice Department is doing, but the one who wrote this should, as I read it quickly, add a little bit of responsibility to that, because everyone should be responsible; so the government, and the minister, also a complex justice system, which allows such an exposition. What did justice really do? It enabled a direct escape, that is, allowing escape, not allowing it, but allowing a man or two suspects to escape for an apparent crime. There was no doubt about it here, people were arrested and flags were arrested in destroying other people's things – readers smashed the car, they told themselves where you stole it, it was confirmed by the owner – all things were crystal clear. The next day, she should be tried and sentenced as an example and a lesson, to prevent anyone else who, by the way, would have thought of it. How did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia act? One Audi A3 just figured it out, stole it, and that's not the problem. Go to an asylum, it's like a hotel, you have a free exit, you know, then you can go wherever you want, we'll fill you up with a rose and your precious iPhone now you've gone. [[…]] Well, bye! Then, when they go, one of them is supposed to go somewhere to Spain, and then after a while, the prosecutor just starts to find out something that would be a good process to do, and in the end, the prosecutor throws it all away. Look, they're not here anymore, they're gone. This is a joke from the Slovenes and the Slovenians. This is mockery from citizens and citizens. This is an inadmissible act for anyone who is an official and for the government as a whole, and someone should be very criminally responsible for it. Another case like that. You have a violent illegal migrant who is breaking into Slovenia. He commits a crime, he's legally convicted. For such a crime, a lot of Slovenians would go to sit there like they were in the game. He gets parole and doesn't get expelled. He has made an application for asylum, although the application has been rejected, but this country does not expel him, because I say it is strange that he is not yet Mr President of Parliament and someone else has accepted him here in Parliament. He takes advantage of this and finds two younger citizens and robs them and is terribly violent in doing so, leaving them, as far as I know, with lasting consequences and getting them in the next trial for two years. Legal judgment. No one knows anything about this, but we have an article in the Slovenian Constitution that says: "The trial is public and the sentence of the judgment must always be made public." Exceptions — such as for younger minors — are permitted by law. There's nothing to know. Stay two years. But did this government expel him as soon as any normal government would protect its own country? No! No! Once again, the good news is that he was not invited to Parliament for another time. [[…]] And what does he do? Rape one young Slovenian girl, try to rape another, or rape her, with a terrible assault with a knife. Then what is it? Nothing! All this is trying to hide! For example, when a journalist who is responsible for his work – unlike his colleagues and colleagues who do not work in this way – asks for judgements to at least open the story to the public to see the real picture of how we work here and what kind of government we have, I reject it and finally the Information Commissioner Mrs. Prelešnikova, who was the secretary-general of this Parliament, says that this is just fine if they have not given him, because we have such a shitty system of information in court, that they have not been able to find a legal judgment. That's what you call it, not even making fun anymore, but making a fool of people. Therefore, all those whom I have listed should be given a fair answer: legally, politically, criminally, in all possible ways and indemnity, in my opinion. You could find elements for that. In addition, all officials who have not done their work, because a lax job — you will not believe — is a criminal offence under the existing Penal Code, there is no need for such changes to the law. Did anyone answer? No, no. Moreover, leaving the obligation to act is also a crime. Is anyone answering? For me to know, no. After everything that's been published, no one. Wait a minute! If someone with negligence allows a person to commit a crime by abandoning his duty, he shall be guilty under the Penal Code of that offence. Do you know that? This is not only about these cases that I have just mentioned, but all those that we so easily accept here, but we allow them to apply for asylum, even though everyone knows it is larifari, and that it is a grave abuse, a mass abuse of the right to asylum. Or maybe he closes their eyes a little bit to go across the border and beyond, and then these people commit serious crimes, and those are also the responsibility of the person who did so. Oops, there's a very awkward situation here, because then it's tanning the whole government. Certainly the former and current Prime Minister of the Government in the first place. I know at least six cases, at least six, when people who went through Slovenia were involved in the worst crimes then in other countries: terrorism, murder and so on. If you don't believe me, please ask the office. I'm sure there's a lot more, but I guarantee six because I know. Who's responsible for this? The one who gave up his duties and the one who did his secular work recklessly. Is that what we're talking about today? No, we're talking today about punishing those who wear some uniforms like that, please? [[…]] And they wear a plastic imitation of a child's toy like it's some kind of weapon. So if the kids in kindergarten are walking, then I don't know if they're coming under this or not. And that's what we're saying in a country where people are jumping around and parading with real weapons — that's not the problem! In short, double criteria everywhere you go. Where is the constitutional principle here that people have the right to know the things that are important for their exercise of the right to power? For the people have power, not you, ladies and gentlemen. She just sent it to you. It's a constitutional right. This constitutional right is that, if legal judgments against illegal migrants are concealed, I claim this with full responsibility. Roughly broken. That's why the Minister should answer. All those who covered it should have responded. Did anyone answer? A constitutional right to security has been violated — has anyone been responsible? It's not. Where is equality before marriage? The foundation of the legal order of modern Europe, the foundation of the Slovenian Constitution, explicitly enshrined in the Constitution itself, is that before the law we are all equal. The law must apply equally to everyone and everyone, in the same way. Is this respected? How, then, were those gentlemen who were to be exiled not expelled? Then how can Ahmad Shamieh shave in the middle of the street and not issue bills, but the last time they raided one of the private hairdressers and closed it down, and next door the place next door is a little bit further because they say they didn't give anyone an account for some tea or a haircut was a wrong bill or I don't know what, some kind of stupidity. This is where the development potential of Slovenia is deliberately destroyed and you are responsible. But, worst of all, it means that there is a systematic introduction of inequality before the law. Only these laws, which are in force, and the international agreements that bind Slovenia should be consistently enforced, and this is the same for the previous and present government. And none of what we're talking about today could ever happen, ever, because it's all illegal. All crossings across the border are illegal. All that Cerar express, as we told him popularly, was all illegal, explicitly illegal, conflicted with the Dublin Agreement, meant non-execution of security agreements, violation of the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia – who was responsible? And today you offer here as a solution to this problem by chasing those who wear plastic toys and run a circus. Personally, I think that only because you know that you have completely failed in the exercise of the basic constitutional function of the government to ensure security for citizens and citizens in order to ensure equality before the law, for everyone and for everyone in the same way. Now you're trying to cover it up like this and brag about it. The only thing good about this story is that this government has already fallen. I just hope and sincerely believe that people are so wise that they will choose next time to understand that no foreigner and no foreigner can be above the constitutional rights of the Slovenes and Slovenes and that it must be the fundamental guide of everyone in politics, every government, every Member of the Parliament that I have been repeating for so many years: First Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The replica has Natasha Sukich. You're giving up, thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he will be given the floor by the representative of the Government. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Today's debate was lively. Let me first say that there is no fascism in the Slovenian police, nor is it in the Ministry of the Interior, and I believe that it will never be in Slovenia and anywhere else in the world. There are no emerging forms either, so you can be calmed down here, and I am also officially informing you that there would be no misinterpretation. The responsibility of protecting the state border is under the exclusive authority of the police, and the Slovenian Armed Forces are also involved at the southern border in helping the police to protect themselves due to the intense migration and illegal crossings of the state border. The aim of both laws is not to move away from the essence of what I said in the introduction of the debate when I explained the objectives of the laws, namely to prevent the operation of paramilitary and similar groups, which, by their uniform form and operation, attempt to create the impression that they are performing tasks under the competence of the state authorities. I believe that both laws will also receive your support for the vote, because the police urgently need the tool to carry out the task, because, as a matter of fact, paramilitary or security groups, self-organised groups, burden the work of the police at the border and interfere with the jurisdiction of the state, perform tasks that are not in any other jurisdiction than those of the State, in this case of state authorities, police and of course the Slovenian Armed Forces. The police are monitoring and regularly informing the state's prosecutions of the activities of the so-called Styrian Guards or of these groups, organised, self-organised. The State Prosecutor's Office has not identified any signs of a crime, so the police do not have the appropriate tools to act. It acts according to the laws in force, but it must be part of the citizens' excitement and when this element arises, the police will take action. I used to say that in testifying, citizens have some reservations about explaining these things to the competent institutions for some vindictive reasons. Since the police have no tools, we are at the Ministry of the Interior, both the Ministry and the police have prepared both novelties of the law. We have also proposed that the Ministry of Justice amend the Penal Code in this area. I believe that today's debate has also touched on all the dilemmas you have, but, given that the laws have gone through both government and parliamentary legislative services, I believe that these marital concerns are minimal and that only that parliamentary majority is needed here in order to adopt both of these laws. Let me say that Slovenian police together with the Slovenian Army control our southern border, work well and protect our Schengen border, the border with the Republic of Croatia. Indeed, in 2019 the number of illegal state border crossings increased. The police have apprehended some 16,000 illegal migrants, slightly over 16,000, and we expect this year, as in the last four years, that the number of illegal crossings will increase. At the moment, we do not record major illegal border crossings. It's cold and these passages are at low intensity. The police also received more than 450 smugglers of illegal migrants and, of course, processed them in accordance with existing legislation and handed them over to the courts. True, between 4,000 and 3 thousand 800 — there were applications for international protection. Slovenia respects the Law on International Protection, but it is true that the problem of this abuse of asylum is not only in Slovenia but in all countries of the European Union. We are discussing this in the Councils of the European Union and, of course, I believe that the Ministers of Home Affairs will also discuss this in the next reference, in the next government. The government of Marjan Šarca has significantly strengthened the material status of police officers and police officers, we have increased salaries, and there have been speeches today, and I am also most proud of this as Minister of the Interior, because police are doing difficult work both at the border and inside the country and it is right that after many years of financial malnutrition they are adequately paid. Of course, the government has also allocated an additional EUR 15 million to increase its work in protecting the Schengen border. It also makes police and police pay better. Once again, as Minister of the Interior, I am proud of this too. Finally, I must thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for in this National Assembly you have adopted two key documents or two budget documents for 2020 and 2021, which allow for the regular and stable financing of the Ministry of the Interior, especially the police. Once again, after many years of financial crisis, it is now the fourth year of stable funding, we increase investment and investment in the police field and we receive a modern European police force in Slovenia, which we can also be proud of as citizens and citizens. In this mandate, we have acquired a number of protective equipment for police officers, we have acquired new special police equipment, we have acquired a number of vehicles, drones and also a helicopter that will soon come into operational use. Indeed, there have been some problems, I know that this is always a problem in the new means, because the issue is in the guarantee and the manufacturer also removes the error or has already resolved it according to my information. We're setting up a video surveillance system on the southern border, and we're upgrading it as well. We've acquired video cameras, we've set up 40 kilometers of temporary technical barriers, panel fences on a police proposal in places where there are larger crossings, where the police are somehow channeling the state border and these illegal crossings. We know that no fence is impenetrable, neither is Slovenian, but this temporary technical barrier helps to protect and work the police. At the end of the year, we had more inflows of employees than outflows in the police force. It's been a long time, too. We can say that it is the success of an active police employment policy, these mechanisms are working. I am especially proud of this because police officers who qualify for retirement do not retire and young people join the police. We both train cops in the police academy in the first year and in the second year. At the moment, an intensive information campaign is taking place, because before entering the Police Academy or higher education, young people have the opportunity, including due to good conditions, stimulating salaries and, of course, appropriate and modern equipment in the police, but also good relations and, of course, good climate, which governs the Slovenian police, the possibility to register and I am happy to do so. In the future, we need to have modern powers in the police force, because modern powers are those with which the police can also operate legally. We know that communication means are digital today, that they are taking place on the dark Internet, where criminals and criminal associations are also operating, communicating, and here we will also have to do what we have already tried to do in this mandate, but there was no appropriate majority to understand these things. I believe that this debate, like any law that touches police work, will be boisterous and long-lasting. However, I believe that all political groups in the National Assembly will agree that the police need funds or modern powers and, on the other hand, control mechanisms: both in the police and in the Ministry of the Interior, as well as parliamentary supervision, judicial supervision and, of course, also the Ombudsman's media controls and all those legitimate controls that also exist and must be respected, and the Slovenian police also respect them and have always responded to these controls. I must say that the Ministry of the Interior has a dialogue with local communities everywhere where there is a security problem – both in the area of municipalities burdened with illegal migration and in the area of Roma communities. I have also visited a number of municipalities where I have come to know the situation on the ground and where we have also heard the problem of both mayors and individual stakeholders in the local community. On several occasions, I have also been alerted by civil initiatives to certain matters and we have also tried to take a step closer to each other here, and this has also worked for us in this government mandate. At the Ministry of the Interior, I am, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the coordinator of the group by the Government, who talks with the mayors of large municipalities, headed by the Mayor of the Municipality of Kostel. We are solving this problem, but I believe we will now slow down a little bit, but we understand the mayors that they have a problem and we are trying to come across as a government. We also have a dialogue with NGOs, which is new at the Ministry of the Interior. Every six months we meet, we meet, we talk, the last time they were with me from Amnesty International NGOs and, of course, from the Legal Information Centre, where we discussed the issue, and that is the same. I think it's only through dialogue that we can solve things. I don't want to respond to the obviouss of NGOs who are involved in different stories. However, I must say what I have always said here also in the questions I have been sent to say that if any non-governmental organisation carries out its activity illegally or their activity and work are illegal, the Slovenian police will act. Even in one of the NGOs, there was a suspicion of this. Of course, the police sent, worked together with the District State Prosecutor's Office, but the State Prosecutor's Office then also found and informed that it was not a crime and that it was not a crime. Once again, if illegal practices occur, the police will act. I must also say that both laws in some way do not interfere substantially with the right of association, and that is also what both legislative services have confirmed, and that is why today the laws are here before you. I think that Slovenian police are proportional in their operation and can also judge who is only in clothes that are similar to uniforms, but who are actually those in some military formation, with spells, act in a military way and so on. Finally, I myself wore a uniform for almost 25 years, a uniform of the Slovenian Army, and I know how to behave in uniform, how the uniform is marked. Finally, I have worn with pride and honour the sign of the Slovenian Army since 1991, before the sign of the Territorial Defence, the Slovenian Army, also the NATO sign and, of course, with pride the Slovenian Army on the shoulder of the uniform. The uniform is an honor, the uniform is pride and not least in the Republic of Slovenia is known exactly who is the uniform and who are those uniformed professions belonging to each group; whether it is the Slovenian Army, whether it is the Slovenian police and, of course, all those professions that are uniformed. However, these are not any groups that want to do the work carried out by the State, for which it also has powers, and I believe that these explanations that I have given now will be taken into account in your vote. Thank you so much and have a nice day.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I find that there is no interest, so I am concluding the general debate. On the proposals for conclusions that the proposals for legislation are suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, 29 January 2020 in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate agenda items 8 and 9. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law on the supplementation of the law on international protection within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. At its 14th session, on 15 January 2020, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft law as the working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party Dušan Šiško has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u82	Good day to you all! We have recently received a letter from an indignant Ljubljanaan living in the Vič area from the Slovenian National Party. It mentions that the situation in Vič is unsustainable, as migrants in large groups walk freely, without control, and harass women, girls, stay in front of schools, in playgrounds. As a result, no one hopes to take a walk, children are not allowed on the playground, or anything like that. So let me read to you what we have received. I quote: “I am addressing you in order to expose the situation that is taking place in this part of Ljubljana, which is overwhelmed by migrants; that is, I do not know who to turn to. It's slowly getting unsustainable. Migrants roam through Prešeren in Tržaška, playing football before primary school, 10 or more of them talking about women and girls, digging through garbage, not to mention. I take them the day of my young man to the synagogue, and behold, a company of them appear in beauty, and they sit on the platform before the church. Our children are all scared. Same on the field in front of Oš Wič. Absolutely out of control! Kids are afraid, we're afraid for our children, girls, women, I just don't let my own people stay out there tonight where the situation has already occurred when they were talking to my wife. We don't feel safe in our country anymore. What's wrong with a migrant when he commits a terrible crime? He will get a roof over his head and complete care, and he will not worry at all.” End of quote and letters. I really don't know, and I don't understand how some people here in this room can approve. Do you really care about Slovenia and Slovenian citizens? Nobody feels safe anymore. People don't trust the country, it's totally unacceptable, and soon no one will ever hope to leave their own home. If it goes that way, we'll be looking for international protection on our own soon. In the Slovenian National Party, we regret that the proposal for a law on the Committee has not been adopted. The fact is that the number of illegal border crossings has increased again in recent months. In the period from 1. 1. 2019 to 30. 9. 2019 police officers in the Republic of Slovenia have dealt with 11 000 786 illegal crossings, but we all know that the number is much higher. For this is only the number of captive refugees. Nobody knows how many of them are in Slovenian forests right now. According to the data we have, some 6,000 migrants have already come to the Croatian border, and there are about 10,000 migrants in the reception centres in Bosnia and Herzegovina and all will come to the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible and apply for recognition of international protection. Interestingly, most illegal refugees come from countries where there is no war or enter the Slovenian territory through so-called safe countries. As long as we look at the Law on International Protection, the part that speaks about the concept of a secure third country and a European safe third country, it is clear that Slovenia is not necessarily obliged to grant international protection. The competent authority may reject the application by a decision as inadmissible if the country from which the applicant comes is deemed to be a safe third country or it is established that another Member State of the European Union and an accession to the EU Regulation are responsible for the examination of the application. Given that most illegal refugees come to Slovenia from and through safe third countries and safe European countries where they have had the opportunity to apply for international protection, they have not done so, it is clear that they are only economic migrants who do not have the right to international protection. Evidence is also the number of suspended procedures for international protection. In the first half, the rate of suspension of procedures for international protection was 85%, a thousand 535 applications, only in the first half of the year. It is said that a thousand 535 illegal migrants were accommodated in an asylum center, taken to a doctor, lived at the expense of taxpayers. In the meantime, they marched around unsupervised, harassed the surrounding population, and finally pushed further west. By amending or supplementing the law, the number of applicants would limit, reduce costs and, last but not least, reduce the number of procedures. By law, the application shall be considered unfounded if the applicant has entered the territory of the Republic of Slovenia illegally or has not lodged an application for international protection as soon as possible in the light of the circumstances of his entry. If a person really intended to apply for protection and stay in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, he would do so immediately, not illegally entering and then hiding in the woods, breaking into houses and weekends. Thank you so much for leaving me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you very much. It's been a while, but we're gonna put up with it and we're gonna put up with it. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you again! You are aware of the absurdity that, after the ruling coalition hastens to express its support to the totally unnecessary and, in many respects, to the absurd law that is directed at those own citizens who try to organize themselves and protect themselves, even though the right to self-defence is an inalienable human right, now that it is a proposal to sharpen the policy towards foreigners, to those foreigners who cruelly abuse the right to asylum, you predict that you will not support it. On the committee itself, you have broken all the articles, it is said that we should not even make a decision today, when the proposal before you is perfectly reasonable. He was extremely justified and is a reflection of the real situation. We have said a great deal about the red thread that the government of Marjana Sarca has been dragging throughout its existence – this is that it was simply unable to ensure the safety of Slovenian citizens and citizens, to protect the Slovenian border and to protect the well-being of the people. For it is necessary to realize that Slovenian taxpayers do all that the government does, we are still paying dearly. The government doesn't even have its own money to say it's state money, or it's government money. No, it's the money of Slovenian taxpayers, that's the money when your leftist reaches into your pocket and pulls your wallet out and emptys it, and then you have to be happy if you get one small coin back. It's left-wing politics. The only thing good about it is that it's all happening in winter. Because winter is the only time you see a left-handed man with his hand in his own pocket. Today we are not actually going to decide what we should be doing. We will decide only on what in a normal country, where we respect our own citizens and citizens and the government would never make a fool of them, we would never make a decision. However, we should decide on the things that would bring us closer to the regime already introduced by virtually all neighbouring countries, which have substantially exacerbated the right to asylum, the procedures, the procedures, and the simple fact that the previous Minister of Home Affairs, Mrs Györköseva, has described “that there is a mass abuse of the right to asylum”. It's not about human rights here, it's about fake humanism, but I don't know what else, it's just, in fact, about abuse. And this abuse is mass, and it costs a tremendous amount of money. How much does it cost? It's a simple calculation. Following an official finding by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia every month, when an illegal migrant is present in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, it costs the Slovenian taxpayers thousands of EUR 963. This is the same month that an average Slovenian pensioner must survive with a few hundred euros. Not only is it a mess, but it's also inhuman; it's unethical, and I'm even saying it's unconstitutional. I just want to know if the Constitutional Court can take courage and make a public decision. How can someone who comes across the border, in violation of the law, obviously abuses an institution, because it comes from a secure country, so it is automatic to abuse, then it can claim that he has more rights than Slovenian citizens. And not just when it comes to costs, there are still a lot of costs that the Court of Auditors has not even taken into account. Do you know what it looks like when someone comes from an asylum home to a health care home? Do you think he's waiting, along with Slovenians and Slovenians? Ah, no! It goes well across the line, and at the dentist it happens daily, you know, you'll see, you don't have to wait, especially if the cops bring it in, then it has an absolute advantage. [[…]] There could be one in shock there, and he'll move on, unless he's in real danger of death, then the docs will probably react. And the question is, do they have such instructions? This is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. This costs us all terribly much; it costs us development potential, therefore taxes are too high, so Slovenian entrepreneurship cannot live, cannot breathe with full lungs, cannot be what Slovenian entrepreneurship should be. It is that today, of course, sovereignty is defended not only by the military, but also by good entrepreneurship and, of course, by that inalienable right that we have been talking about all day – the right to human security. There can be no alien right over this right. Ladies and gentlemen, once again: Slovenia first!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, will be presented by Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u86	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the law is another type of proposed amendment in the field of migration legislation which, according to the proposaler, solves the migration problem and is based on the data of the report on the submitted, approved, rejected and rejected applications for recognition of international protection. The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, in its proposal, expresses concern about the increase in the percentage of the suspension of the procedure for the recognition of international protection resulting from the abuse of the procedure in the manner in which a person requests international or subsidiary protection when crossing the country illegally and before leaving the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the applicant, the current law nevertheless allows for these abuses, which further burden the asylum system and prolong the procedures for the resolution of the applications of persons who really need international protection. The State Council has thus proposed not to recognise refugee status and to grant subsidiary protection to persons who have illegally crossed the national border or to those who have come from a third safe country and to persons who have not extended the application for international protection as soon as possible. We cannot agree with the LMŠ party and explain why. Firstly, the applicable law already lays down the conditions under which an application for international protection is granted or rejected, namely, Article 52, where, inter alia, I shall quote, “the applicant’s statements are manifestly inconsistent, contradictory, false, unlikely and contrary to the sufficiently verified information on the country of origin referred to in Article 23, paragraph 8, or 9, which makes their application manifestly unconvincing as to the claim that they fulfil the conditions for the recognition of international protection.” The content of the article thus allows for an individual assessment of the personal circumstances of each applicant for international protection. Secondly, it must be made clear that international protection in the Republic of Slovenia is governed by common asylum legislation and that our country, as a member of the European Union, is also bound by such legislation. And the adoption of the proposed amendments would seriously derogate from this and would constitute a direct violation of the Convention as two directives. When we speak of a ban on the extradition of an individual to another country and there are valid reasons for this to justify the decision on the existence of a real danger of being subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, this is provided for in Article 3 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Article 18 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 33 of the Geneva Convention, exile or forced return of a refugee to the territory where his life or freedom would be threatened by his race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or a certain political belief are thus prohibited. The supervision of the legality of the stay of a foreign national in the Republic of Slovenia is primarily addressed by the Aliens Act, which obliges a foreigner to apply for the first temporary residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia before entering the country. This ensures that security aspects are met and that more appropriate migration control is ensured. It is difficult for us to depart from the position of the Ministry of the Interior. In the first residence permit procedure, the alien shall be checked in several records or, if necessary or required, also carried out a security check carried out by the criminal police. The latter shall, on the basis of a review in the various records, determine whether there are also safety restraints for the issue of a residence permit, followed by a measure prohibiting entry into the Republic. We are aware that certain procedures could be speeded up and regulated more effectively, but we need to regulate asylum legislation and international protection together with partners at European level. We believe that the area of migration is one of the most important themes, of course, and we will face it in the future both in our country and at the level of the European Union as a whole. For we are living in a time of global uncertainty, and we need to be very careful about situations that can trigger re-mass migration across Europe. Of course, part of the solution is to solve problems in the countries of origin. Slovenia, as a full and responsible member of the European family, will have to participate actively in the proposals and preparations for common asylum legislation, which the Commissioner for Home Affairs announced on a recent visit to the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u88	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In order to reduce or reduce the overburdened asylum system in order to reduce the number of applications submitted for international and subsidiary protection, the State Council has prepared a new Law on International Protection, Amendment and Supplement to Article 31 of the Law on International Protection, which lays down when the refugee status is not recognised to the applicant. The applicant added two additional reasons in this Article when a person is not granted refugee and subsidiary protection status. The Government and the Legal and Legislative Service have pointed out in their opinion that the proposed solutions are contrary to the Convention on the Status of Refugees, which sets out the reasons for the exclusion of an individual from refugee status. Notwithstanding the Government's warnings and opinions, which are aware of the problem of the abuse of asylum legislation, it must be noted that in our view the proposed novelties on international protection are misleading, since by adding two exclusional qualifications to the law, the overloaded asylum system will not be burdened. If we review statistics and calculations for 2019, the good 3 000 800 were asylum seekers, 85 asylum applications were recognised, representing around 0.5% of all. This means that, according to the proposal of the Council of State, these novelties would regulate only these 0.5% of the applicants. We are constantly faced with the situation of many asylum seekers leaving their asylum homes and moving forward towards the target countries. As I have already pointed out on the Committee, it is essential to reduce and rationalise procedures to determine the eligibility of international protection in order to speed up the functioning of security authorities at the border in the implementation of procedures for illegal border crossings. At the moment, procedures could, in duly justified circumstances and with a view to ensuring adequate and integrated treatment of an application for international protection – these procedures may take up to 18 months. Moreover, the competent authority may suspend the application procedure where, due to the uncertain situation in the applicant's home country, the applicant who is presumed to be of a temporary nature cannot be expected by the competent authority to decide on the request within the time limit. In this case, the application procedure shall be completed no later than 21 months after the application has been lodged. As we've learned, the hands are long. This raises the question whether asylum seekers, who may at the same time be the perpetrator of a violation of the illegal crossing of the state border, can be limited by 18 months or more. Probably not. It will be necessary to consider how the procedures for shortening those deadlines can be rationalised, while stressing that, in order to reduce procedures and deadlines, we must not expose ourselves to the danger of excluding someone who really needs international protection from this process and putting him in grave danger or threat. We are also looking for solutions on how to prevent the abuse of asylum and how to limit the movement of certain applicants under legal standards. However, at least in our view, this issue is one that goes beyond the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The problem we are facing is also broader and will need to be made concrete in order to protect the external borders of the European Union. If we are to face this issue alone, it seems to me that we will not be able to solve the problem. The problem will remain, as will the platform to promote various extremisms. Social Democrats are being assessed that police officers are currently in control of the state border and that the proposed amendment to the Law on International Protection would in no way contribute to improving the asylum process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u90	The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia proposes additional reasons on the basis of which the status of the fugitive and the status of subsidiary protection are not recognised. The law would also provide that the status of the fugitive and subsidiary protection would not be recognised to persons who were in a secure third country or who entered the territory of Slovenia illegally. International protection in the Republic of Slovenia is governed by common European asylum legislation. The key purpose of the Common European Asylum Policy is to create an area of freedom, security and justice open to all those who are forced by circumstances to legitimately seek protection. As a Member State of the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to respect European legislation in the field of international protection. The Law on International Protection is therefore fully in line with the European Union's common asylum system or asylum legislation. Any amendment or addition to that law must also be based on common European asylum legislation. The SMC, like the Government, notes that the proposed new reasons for the exclusion from refugee or subsidiary protection status constitute a violation of the two directives, as well as of the International Convention on the Status of Refugees and, of course, means, in view of the nature of the Institute of International Protection, disproportionate interference with the rights of those persons. Otherwise, we would also like to point out that the proposal of the State Council is substantively comparable to the amendment of the law tabled by the SDS Group last year. For the same reasons, the National Assembly rejected it for violations of both European Union law and international law, as it did last summer. Furthermore, we would like to point out that this bill has been adopted by the Council of State on the basis of the legislative initiative of the SLS extraparliamentary party, which it does not even hide, but even publicly publishes on the websites, and its President boasts that there are eight state councillors in the State Council, although not the law or regulations of the State Council, who do not know the organisational form of the Council. Such a form is known only by the National Assembly, a group of Members from the same party. In the SMC, it is recalled that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in article 80 confers legitimacy and legitimacy on political parties in the functioning of the legislative branch of government. Their functioning and decision-making in the State Council as a representation of functional and local interests is not envisaged under Article 96 of the Constitution. On the contrary, even on the website of the State Council, it is clearly stated that in order to maintain a high level of expertise and to exclude political interests from the functioning of the Council of State, it is stipulated that state councilors perform their functions in a non-professional manner and that the composition of the Council of State should neutralise the influence of political parties, which is mainly involved in the legislative process through the National Assembly. Since this law constitutes an obvious abuse and is contrary to the constitutional role of the State Council and representatives of local interests, we have already rejected the law in the SMC on the basis of the above arguments on the home labour body. We also voted against the amendment of the law because of the fact that the SLS insists on solutions already in the past and still present violations of the protection of rights under international law, European law and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Even though the SDS have not succeeded in 2015, 2018 and, lastly, 2019 with their proposals and do not have an emergency situation, it is incomprehensible that they are joined by other right-wing parties, or SLS, who still insist on similar proposals. In the SMC, we are aware that migration today is a global problem and, of course, a pan-European problem. No Member State can successfully deal with migration on its own, so we need a new European, more coherent and unified approach and not divisions imposed by certain policies such as Orban, Salvini, Janša or Grims and similar. As a Member State of the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia is committed to establishing a common European asylum policy or a common European asylum system and sharing burdens and solidarity between Member States. Slovenia will continue its efforts to conclude negotiations on the reconstruction of the asylum system as soon as possible. However, the new President of the European Commission from the EPP on election announced a new Pact on migration and asylum, including the reform of Dublin rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the Left Group will be presented by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Fear, which began in 2015 when Slovenia first faced the first major arrival of refugees, and has continued uninterrupted since then, has now led to serious absurdities. If we look at the first, positions or actions of so-called central governments since 2016. These measures, which have been taken abroad primarily by right-wing, far-right governments, have adopted a so-called environment in our country. The first measure was the technical obstacles directly to the Government of the Modern Centre Party, which were cutting wires and panel fences. It followed the legalization of additional repressive powers of the police and the military, IMSI hunters, paralyzers, drones, thermovision cameras, facial recognition, air traffic control and the like. Once again, these were not actions by right-wing governments, they were and are still the actions of the central governments, including the excessive tightening of asylum legislation in the previous term. We have a police state surrounded by cutting wire, which, according to the information on the ground, serves violence and ultimately violates human rights. At the same time, on the other hand, the right still screams, how terrible everything is, threatening the catastrophe of the modern - day apocalyptic dimension. And for all the problems in the country, of course, blame the refugees: miserable pensions, wages that do not allow decent survival, waiting types in health, housing crisis, energy poverty and so on, they try to convince the public that for all of this and probably more, it is not because of politics, but because they are refugees. Poor pensions are not supposed to be the result of measures aimed at lowering the percentages and robbing the pension allowance for the benefit of capital, nor are there any less social rights. The 20-year quiet privatisation of public services, especially health care, has nothing to do with waiting types and expensive homes for the elderly. No, it's some imaginary external enemy. On one occasion, Roma, sometimes unemployed or receiving social assistance, are mostly refugees. The government of Marjana Šarca also hid behind a smoke screen created by the right hand. Logically, it has taken some measures itself, which, despite favourable economic conditions, retain the meager scope of social rights, which most deliberately chokes under the risk of poverty. The discharges and the candy were or are still reserved exclusively for capital and, of course, for the most wealthy. All the pursuits are now apparently joined by the State Council, which according to the principle I am yours — you have been successful in working with my right hand. The objective of the proposal is very simple and clear: to prevent everyone from seeking and obtaining international protection in Slovenia. More than that, open the right-hand space so that it can continue its anti-refuge propaganda in the soybeans. The fact that this is purely a matter of pirage already shows the fact that, for example, the State Council has no time or will to deal with proposals to address the causes of mass migration. For example, Levice's recommendation to immediately cease Slovenia's participation in the war in Afghanistan The State Council did not even consider, let alone actively support or at least engage in the debate. It's easier to ride on a wave of hate and at the same time start populism. Not only the right hand, but also the government and the coalition, it is of little concern to address the essential causes of migration. It would be time for you all to acknowledge that migration is actually a fact. There have always been mass, multiple, and they will in the future. If you want to soften them, you must first recognize and find the main reasons for them: racial, religious and political persecution, war, hunger, extreme poverty, environmental and economic exhaustion. In Africa alone, conflicts are currently taking place in thirty countries, in Asia in the sixteenth, in the Middle East in the seventh. Together at this point, conflicts and wars are taking place in 69 countries around the world. Among them are Afghanistan, Yemen, Pakistan, Somalia, Libya and Syria, and in all of these Slovenia participates in the framework of the NATO Pact. Most of the refugees also come from these countries. If we add economic and environmental exhaustion, hunger and climate change, which are direct products of unbridled capitalism, we get exactly what we are facing, but of course none of you are interested. In Levi, we have opposed the proposal of the State Council and we still oppose it, but we are giving you well-meaning advice: if you do not want migration, stop supporting and generating the reasons for their creation. The tightening of asylum legislation and the construction of migration walls will not prevent, but the current situation and the humanitarian disaster we are witnessing will certainly only deepen further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u94	Good-bye! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! International protection and related issues have been a problem since the beginning of the last refugee crisis, which began about five years ago, a very pressing problem not only with us in Slovenia but also with the general public, but in particular in the EU. The impact of mass migration is thus felt on the burden of international protection systems, in particular in EU Member States. Slovenia, too, is no exception to this burden, and in this regard there is no exception to the related problems. As a Member State of the European Union, we are committed to respect for its law and obligations arising from international acts. The fact is that Slovenia must respect common European asylum legislation, as countries do not have much room for manoeuvre in regulating this area. As a result, the Law on International Protection is almost entirely taken from the acquis of the European Union. Nor should we forget the Geneva Convention or Convention relating to the Status of Refugees, which gives rise to this principle of non-refoulement. Thus, the freedom of one country to decide for itself on this area and the law in this area is quite limited within the EU. However, there may not be too much debate on whether the current European legislation is yet appropriate and effective enough to deal with the current situation, when migration, as we all know, is particularly economic. All these documents, which were discussed earlier, were adopted in a totally different situation that we are witnessing today. The situation was when there were some 10 people a month waiting at the crossing points and waiting for an asylum procedure or an international protection procedure, not just a few 100 a day. The fact is that Slovenia is still only a transit country and that most foreigners crossing our country have no intention of staying with us, their goal remains Germany, France, Italy, Austria, for example Belgium. The biggest problem in the system of international protection is therefore the abuse of this institution, and this is recognised by the Ministry as well as by other institutions. Foreigners ask us for international protection, but in fact they do not promise it, the process runs out, while they disappear, unknown to where. In any event, the competent authorities in Slovenia are obliged to initiate and comply with the principle of non-refoulement. An individual applicant shall have the right to a fair and effective procedure in which the competent authority shall determine all relevant circumstances. Consequently, it also means that a foreigner cannot be excluded from international protection without pre-implementation of the procedure. That's what law is now. In doing so, we must not ignore the fact that any procedure for obtaining international protection means a certain cost, of course not only in finance, but also in the burden of the people involved. However, possible abuses of these practices, which are in practice common, slow down the entire system and do injustice to those who really need such assistance because they are fleeing, are on the run from their country and are protecting their lives. This problem cannot be solved in the manner proposed by the proposer of this law. It's just a simple solution that doesn't drink water. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the legislator in the field of international protection was not left to his own judgment. The solutions proposed are mainly disputed in terms of the principle of non-refoulement, which follows from Article 33 of the Geneva Convention. In its opinion, the Government also pointed out that the proposed new reasons for exclusion from refugee status and exclusion from subsidiary protection status constituted disproportionate interference with the right to international protection. The adoption of such a law would therefore constitute an action against all this existing legislation. As I have already said, Slovenia must act in accordance with the common European asylum policy and respect other international instruments, but we cannot all say together that nothing can be changed because that is what Europe defines. I am also discussing this several times in my own debates when I say that Slovenia must insist, within the framework of its capacity as a member of the European Union, on the establishment of a system that is appropriate and adapted to modern times. A system that will ensure respect for the human rights of these migrants and prevent the abuse of asylum procedures. Slovenia is a member of the European Union, and our voice, the voice of a country that is transitive and has major problems with this title, must count. Until then, we will not support such flat-rate proposals in the SAB Group of Members of the SAB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u96	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Modern migration is the centre of globalisation in the 21st century. Migration processes are becoming increasingly intense as they are driven by the cycle of uneven demographic development, large economic inequalities and various labour market needs. The proposed amendment to the Law on International Protection justifies its proposal with a view to assessing the overload of the asylum system. It proposes to include in the law two additional reasons why an individual is not recognised as a refugee or subsidiary protection, whether a person comes from a country considered to be a safe third country or if a person has entered the territory of the Republic of Slovenia illegally or has extended his stay illegally or has not lodged an application for international protection as soon as possible. Members of the Desus Group do not consider it necessary to tighten the conditions for obtaining international protection status at this time. The Law on International Protection is fully in line with the common European Asylum Law, which the Republic of Slovenia respects and implements. It is true, however, that Slovenia, with unconditional categorisation and fanatical adaptation to the European Union, in advance gave up its negotiating adjutants and, on the other hand, left open room for various forms of blackmail. European asylum legislation provokes questions about the nature of the organisation of the community of countries in which we participate. In recent years, the European Union has made mistakes that have deepened the crisis at its external borders. One such mistake was the senseless overthrow of the Libyan regime, which was replaced by tribal wars and irresistible chaos, and the other by war in Syria with similar consequences. That is why European politicians should think deeply and test the incompetence of their policies. The European Union is in the process of transformation from a source of stability to an exporter of political and economic disorder. The European Union has no answer for the current migration crisis, is simply lost, without strategy, without ideas and without policies, and the problem is not really simple. The only way that can lead to a possible resolution is through a multi-lateral approach, but it must not only be limited to the countries of the European Union, but must include all the countries from which migrants come. However, such an approach requires extraordinary efforts made in coordination between European, Asian and African countries, and in particular in agreement with the fact that Europe will have to adopt a large influx of foreign nationals in the coming decades because this requires the legality of demographics and economic inequalities. None of these two conditions have been met today. Where we are talking about additional applicants' substantive exclusion reasons, we must not overlook that they are already involved in the substantive decision-making phase of the person's application when, on the basis of the proposed substantive exclusion reasons, he decides that the application is inadmissible, in which case it is rejected, or is manifestly unfounded, in this case it is rejected. The figures on the number of applications submitted show that there is no need in fact to tighten international protection legislation. In 2019, when the state border was illegally crossed by 16,000 people, 3 000 821 applications were submitted and 3 000 838 were resolved, together with the 17 from 2018. The recognized status of international protection was only 85. Out of 3,000 838, that's only 85. These facts speak for themselves and, for the sake of these figures, I voted against the proposal of the Council of State at the meeting of the working body of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on classified data under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Igor Erštet, Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of classified information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal for amendments and the supplementation of the Secret Data Act does not depart from the objectives and principles on which the regulation of this area has already been regulated. The main objective of the proposed novel is only to improve the effectiveness of the system and consequently the security of classified data. The first amendment is in the area of personal security, namely the amendment to the current Article 3 of the Law, which defines persons who may access classified information in connection with the performance of their duties without permission to access classified information. With the proposed amendment, access to foreign classified information without a security check shall only be possible for persons in the highest positions who have received appropriate training in the field of classified data and have signed a statement of awareness of the rules governing this area. Thus, the proposal of Article 3 is comparable to those of other members of NATO and the European Union. The next change is in the area of industrial security. The biggest novelty is the introduction of a verification of the ownership structure of the organisation and of so-called connected persons, namely persons who own a certain ownership or management share of the organisation, or other persons who could influence the activities of the organisation and thus the possible economic, security and other interests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendments also align the conditions for accessing classified data to the level of confidentiality internally for employees in the bodies and for employees in the organisations. In the process of verifying compliance with the conditions for obtaining a security authorisation for organisations, security questionnaires shall be introduced, i.e. the organisation’s so-called security questionnaires, which shall be modelled on the questionnaires used in the verification of compliance with the conditions for persons requiring access to classified data. This will also speed up administrative procedures for issuing a security authorisation to the organisation. The next important novelty is the way to deal with classified data in the context of the execution of an order that can take place at the premises of the contracting authority or at the premises of the organisation. This provision regulates the so far legal deficiencies in the field of industrial security, which provided for the granting of the organisation's security authorisation only in cases where the confidential data of higher levels of confidentiality are provided to the organisation in physical form or kept within the organisations. The proposed arrangement facilitates the participation of organisations in contracts of a confidential nature, since confidential information relating to the execution of contracts can also be kept with the contracting authority. This regulation also aligns the situation with international security standards and with foreign practice in this area. The last amendment is in the field of the protection of classified data in the communication and information systems. The current law has virtually no provisions regulating the protection of classified data in the communication and information systems and defining our tasks in this area. The proposal for a new law therefore sets out in more detail the components of the communication and information systems and the need to establish or implement a security regulation procedure or the approval of a system in which classified data are used. It also prescribes the use of cryptographic solutions and the procedure for verifying the appropriateness of cryptographic data protection solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u100	Vice President, thank you so much again! At its 14th session, on 15 January 2020, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Secret Data submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party and of the Coalition's parliamentary groups were tabled to the draft law within the time limit. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the representative of the Government of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia stressed that the solutions to the draft law do not deviate from the principles and objectives on which the current regulation of the area already exists. He explained that the aim of the bill is only to improve the effectiveness of the system and consequently the security of classified data. The draft law sets out in detail the components of the system and the need to implement the procedure for the security approval of systems in which classified data are dealt with or stored. He pointed out that the transfer of classified data to a system outside administrative and security areas was allowed only through the use of cryptographic solutions approved by the Office. He also presented new developments and changes in both industrial security and personal security. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further explained that the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups gave the majority of the warnings resulting from the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service to be duly taken into account. A representative of the Council of State also expressed support for the bill. A further discussion was held in which agreement with the amendment was submitted to the Marjan Sarca Group, where the representative said that the proposal would adequately improve the effectiveness of the system and the resulting data security. He felt that more attention should be paid to cyber security of classified data, as classified data must be protected, and welcomed the improvement of data security in the communication and information systems. They also supported the bill in the Group of Social Democrats, because they believe that the bill is a step forward in the area of the protection of classified information and as an important novelty of the bill's proposal highlighted industrial security and the arrangements for the verification of the ownership structure of organisations and related persons. The representative of the Social Democrats stressed the importance of security culture in addressing and protecting classified information and the role of information and awareness in this area. With regard to the disclosure of classified information, however, she stressed that such acts should be duly sanctioned. On the other hand, the Left Group did not support the proposal because they believe it is going in a less transparent direction. As the representative said, they themselves advocate a more transparent functioning of the country and the solutions proposed deviate from the transparent functioning of the authorities. It also advocated a reduction in the number of documents bearing the label in secret and stressed that a large number of documents were marked with this label, which further restricts public access or even the highest public officials. Following a closed discussion, the Committee, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, considered and adopted the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15, 16 and 19. However, the Committee did not adopt the amendment of Article 2 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on all the articles of the draft law and adopted them by 9 votes in favour and no objection. However, in the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which amendments are also incorporated. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. It has been published on the websites of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Secret Data Act concerns amendments that specify in more detail the components of the system of classified data and their safety. The proposal for amendments to the law provides that the Office for the Protection of Secret Data will become a supervisory coordinating body and that specific tasks will continue to be carried out within individual bodies. There is also a need to carry out a security authorisation procedure for systems in which classified data are dealt with or stored. All systems dealing with Classified Classified Data must be protected against unwanted electromagnetic radiation. The proposal for legislative changes also touches on industrial security and changes in the area of personal security are also being introduced. The fact is that, according to our regulations, the circle of persons who can access classified information without permission to access classified information for the purpose of performing their duties or duties is very wide and departs from comparable arrangements. Therefore, the proposal strengthens the circle of persons who will have access to classified information without authorisation and will have to undergo basic training before access. In our view, this circle of persons who will be able to access classified information in the exercise of their functions is still wide and here we ask that it should nevertheless be considered to narrow it down and make it internationally comparable. In general, given the difficult security situations facing international space. Such statements by the bill-maker may at some point be heard with appeal, but what if individual solutions are incomplete and raise further questions about personal security? We must be aware that we are living in an environment where security is a fragile asset and must be carefully guarded and protected. Therefore, the most sensitive information, i.e. classified information, must be available only to a very narrow circle of people. In this case, we even spread it in some segments. Amendments to the law should more specifically regulate the state of security of classified data in the communication and information systems and develop cryptographic data protection solutions. In particular, due to the development of information systems itself, only extensions are not sufficient. This is a security complex and sensitive system that needs to be carefully developed. We will not support the bill's novelties in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Igor Peček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The right to information is one of the fundamental human rights of modern democratic society. In practice, information is a process of dialogue between different public and social actors, including political ones. Therefore, it is not excessive to say that the political maturity of a modern state is also reflected in the openness and visibility of the functioning of power. Of course, it is expressed through the consistent realization of this right. In order to do so, the State must provide an adequate legal basis, which at the same time also serves to balance this right in relation to the protection of national security and personal data. Thus, the Slovenian Constitution provides everyone with information of a public nature for which we have a legitimate legal interest in the law and does not restrict or deprive him of that right. Such a constitutional category is of paramount importance as it sets out a policy of open or visible authority which allows for the establishment of a so-called cooperative democracy. However, the principle of public access to data and information by public authorities is not absolute and unlimited, so in certain cases, in order to safeguard national interests and the benefits of individual data, we will define them as classified, thereby limiting their accessibility. In doing so, it is of utmost importance to have appropriate legal arrangements between the two standards so that the possible identification of information for secret purposes does not become a way of restricting the public's work of public authorities or that, on the other hand, such data or information may not be made public that could endanger the interests and benefits of our country. For all of this, a good system for protecting classified information is essential, and we support today's proposal for a new law in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc because we believe that this is a step forward. In recent years, the field of information technology has been rapidly developed and changes made in the field of the protection of classified data in the communication and information systems to the new regulation are necessary. The current law has virtually no provisions governing the protection of classified information in this area. Similarly, the regulation of the industrial security segment has shown itself to be an improvement in the level of safety standards in industrial security, thus aligning them with international safety standards and practices in this area. Finally, a change in the area of personal security is also important, where an exemption circle is drawn up when access to foreign classified information is also allowed to persons without a security check. This also follows the comparable regulations of other Member States. Everything listed will contribute to a better and more efficient system. After all, the people who manage this system are always responsible for its functioning. Their behaviour depends more or less on the degree of security culture, which is also one of the fundamental elements of the modern data protection system. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we are aware that there are still a number of challenges ahead in the area of security of classified data, so we must make sure that this system is continuously improved, upgraded and thus continuously secures the security of classified data, especially those relating to national security. With today's novelty, we're going to do just that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! How and how data and information are protected and protected depends, of course, on the time I speak; 30, 50, 100 years ago or now when different information and purposes travel around the world at light speed, if I can, of course, illustrate this matter. It is therefore important for the economy and industry to be adequately protected and protected in the performance of State tasks and tasks. Information has been important in the past and it is no different today, information or data means money and the development of information technology has become very rich in the past 15 years, virtually in recent years IT technology has evolved and changed daily, meaning that the functioning of the whole society and all social systems must respond appropriately and adapt accordingly. That's not easy. In particular, this development must be followed by the protection of classified sensitive data, both for national security and for industrial security. We are concerned with this area by the Office for the Protection of Secret Data, which often points out the inconsistencies in the implementation of the law. There is also a lack of consistency in the implementation of contracts that make it possible to access classified information in their implementation. Inadequate provisions on how to protect classified information in contracts are often the cause of incorrect handling and incorrect protection of classified data. The proposed amendment will be supported by the Social Democrats. We believe that the proposed amendment to the law is a step forward in the area of the protection of classified information and that we have not even strayed from the basic objective of the novel by the amendments adopted on the committee itself. This is to improve the effectiveness of the system and, consequently, the security of classified data, which sets out in detail the components of the system and the need to implement the security authorisation procedure for systems in which classified data are dealt with or stored. And as the motioners have warned, all systems dealing with Classified Classified Secrets should be adequately protected against unwanted electromagnetic radiation. However, in order to protect important information and data, it is necessary to adequately protect the transmission of classified data into the system of outlaws and security zones. The latter shall only be permitted by the use of cryptographic solutions, which shall be approved by the Office for the Protection of Secret Data. In this part, I would also point out the regulation of classified data in the field of industrial security and the arrangements for the verification of the organisation's ownership structure and related persons. The scope of the necessary verification of the so-called operating background of the organisation, which could be contrary to the security, political or economic interests of the Republic of Slovenia, is not specified in the current regulation. Individuals who, in their work, encounter data from different levels of secrecy, must be aware of the seriousness of the leaking of information and the consequences of such acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Secret Data Act, as it is, has in fact been drafted in the previous term. In fact, we did not vote on it or the procedure was closed due to the collapse of the government or the early elections, and we therefore welcome this law in the Modern Centre Party. The fact is that, at a time when major changes are actually taking place and all data can be very sensitive, it is all the more important to regulate national legislation regulating access to EU classified information. What we welcome is, nothing other than typical issues in terms of insight into this data will change for those data that are at the level of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the fact is that we have been warned several times in the control itself that national legislation needs to be adapted for a simple reason because there were in fact too many people in the wider circle who had the opportunity to access this data. We also welcome the important role played by the Office for the Protection of Secret Data and, in some ways, also plays a national guardian or supervisory function and at the same time a coordinator in this area. Therefore, in the Modern Centre Party, all the changes proposed in the law itself will be adopted and warmly welcomed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. The Secret Data Act is an exception. This is certainly not a law that would fall within the scope of transparency in the functioning of the public authorities. In some cases, this is justified, but unfortunately in some cases it is not and serves primarily to hide documents and not to protect the interests of the State. Thus, there are few cases where either the information officer or the court has to decide later that the information is not confidential and that they have been declared unlawful by an authority as such. We have met this problem several times in Levica. For example, in the case of documentation or in the case of fraud in relation to the second track and the need for Hungarians to participate. There were quite a few documents here for absolutely no reason marked as classified information, but we obtained them only after the complaint and at the request of the information officer. The same example is a wire where the story is not closed today. The government and ministries insist that the disclosure of four years old documents could harm the interests of the State. Perhaps it would harm the reputation and interests of the former and abandoned government, and that is all. Another example of harmful practices is illegal police instructions tried to expose NGOs. Before the court finally decides that the police must disclose the documents, it will be illegal to expel hundreds or thousands of people. Even today, documents on the bank hole are hidden under confidentiality. In all these cases, it is not a matter of protecting the interests of the State, but rather of protecting the interests of the current authorities. The current system is set up in such a way that an individual, journalist or anyone else must make a concrete effort to engage in documents of public interest for disclosure. The Authority will hide the documents under the code of secrecy and then a long-term procedure, first before the Ministry, then before the Information Officer, the Administrative Court and so on and so on. Once the documents finally become public, the whole government is replaced in the meantime, new faces come and public interest and the topic is long gone. In Levica we advocate the full transparency of the operation of the country, so of course we are critical not only of this novel but also of the basic Secret Data Act. We are particularly critical of the fact that the novel is a result of a slave’s relationship with NATO. Nate's inspection would like to limit access to their documents as much as possible, and we agreed to do so immediately. If anything, classified labelling should limit to a very limited number of documents, but not extend the possibility of illegal concealment and further restrict access to them, even to the highest public officials. We will not support the proposal in the left hand side, as it is essentially going towards less and no more transparent functioning of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u112	Nicely greeted! The proposal to amend and supplement the Secret Data Act follows the fundamental objective of improving the effectiveness of the data protection system and improving the industrial security of Slovenia in response to the changed global security situation and of ensuring greater security and access to EUCI and NATO. In the current law, there is a wide and wide range of people who can access classified data for the purpose of performing their duties under Slovenian regulations, and far from comparable arrangements in the EU Member States and the NATO Union. Slovenia has been warned on several occasions by Euro-Atlantic allies. The new law in this area provides for a much narrower circle of exceptions, which is limited to key authorities. Persons who have access to classified information without authorisation will have to undergo basic training with the function and undertake to comply with the rules on classified information. The possibility of revocation of the authorisation is also foreseen and specified. The proposal also provides some solutions for the establishment of physical and technical conditions for the maintenance and storage of classified data. Cybersecurity is improving. In New Slovenia we support solutions that improve the security situation in the country and are in line with NATO's guidelines, so we will support the proposal for a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u114	Dear Presidents, distinguished colleagues! The main purpose of the amendments to the Secret Data Act is, in the first place, to improve the system of classified data itself and consequently to improve security. The law currently in force does not cover the protection of classified information on communication and information systems to a sufficient extent. The draft law regulates this matter as it sets out the components of the systems which define the need to implement the security authorisation procedure for systems in which classified data are handled or stored. The tasks of the Office of the Government for the Protection of Secret Data, which is the supervisory national authority in this field, are also more explicitly defined. The area of data protection is an extremely sensitive area and, given the development of technology, we need to be prepared for all security risks. To the greatest extent, it is necessary to prevent abuses that may occur without adequate safety mechanisms and the novelty also provides that all systems must be protected against unwanted electromagnetic radiation. Thus, only using cryptographic solutions approved by the Government's Office for the Protection of Secret Data will allow a new transfer outside the security zones. The proposal also changes the area of personal security. Personal security means that persons accessing classified information must be adequately checked. Our legislation provides for a wide range of persons who can access classified information without permission to enter in the exercise of their functions. In the EU Member States and the Union, NATO is limited to key authorities. Slovenia has been warned of this several times, and this postponement from comparable arrangements is now being abolished. The new regime would allow only certain persons to access foreign classified information and also introduce basic training for those who have access to classified information without authorisation. To a certain extent, industrial security arrangements are being amended to ensure the adoption of measures to protect classified data between companies and organisations. The arrangements for the verification of ownership structure and related persons will be further regulated. As a result, it will be possible to check whether it is persons who could compromise the interests of the State or the political and security relations of which Slovenia is also a member. In the SAB Group, we are aware of the importance of the effective protection of classified data, so we will support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in Article 39(2), provides that everyone shall be entitled to receive information of a public nature for which he has a legitimate interest in the law, except in cases provided for by law. However, every information or document cannot and must not be made available to the general public. Confidentiality shall be established for the benefit of public security, the defence of external matters or the information and security activities of the State. The legislator's task is to clearly define a common basic single system for determining the protection and access to classified data from the work area of the national authorities and for ending the confidentiality of such data. Anyone who has been entrusted with or is familiar with classified information is responsible for its protection and confidentiality. The establishment of an appropriate system for the treatment of classified data was one of the fundamental conditions that Slovenia must fulfil before entering the European Union and the NATO Union. The State has done so in an appropriate manner, as both international organisations have also confirmed. The proposal for this novel refers to three content sets: the area of personal security, where the narrowing of the circle of beneficiaries is presented, which can access classified data without permission to access classified data; the area of industrial security, where a more detailed and clearer regime for the verification of the organisation's ownership structure and related persons; and the area of communication and information systems is laid down. On behalf of the Desus Group, I submit that the proposed reduction in the number of persons having access to classified data without permission to access classified data is too restrictive. In fact, this access is restricted to mayors and councillors. In principle, it can be agreed that the number of these persons should be reduced, and we also agree with the establishment of mandatory basic secret data training, because we believe that the current definition is highly dispersed and completely irrational. The verification of the organisation's ownership structure and its more detailed arrangements in the field of industrial security are necessary today. This also applies to connected persons, those who own a certain ownership or management share of the organisation and could have a direct and indirect impact on its activities, which could be contrary to the security, political and economic interests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal shall govern the extent of the verification required. The lack of a valid Secret Data Act is the absence of provisions on the protection of classified data in the communication and information systems. Risk management in secret data protection procedures is thus now regulated by the new law, and the specific tasks of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Office for the Protection of Secret Data in this field are also specified. Members of the Desus Group estimate that the proposed amendments do not constitute major substantive interventions to the basic law, but they are necessary, so we will unanimously support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u118	Good day to you all. Today's law is to a large extent not a product of the current government suit, but of the previous one. The current draft law took into account the professional comments made both in the previous mandate and in the current one. Under the line, we consider the marriage to be professional and good. The main objective of the law under consideration today is to improve the effectiveness of the system and consequently the security of classified data. We ourselves have proposed an amendment that has not been adopted on the Committee. Since the content of the amendment was a substantive and political decision and not an expert-personal decision, despite the non-confirmation of the amendment, we support the law. Although we live in a democratic country, the public is action and the right to access data and information from public authorities is a necessity, but this need cannot be absolute and unlimited. There are always data that must be classified as classified in order to protect certain national interests and benefits. Access to them shall be restricted by confidentiality. It is right for the Institute to take classified information particularly seriously, as this is a necessity for the normal functioning of the State. No one wants this information to come to the public because it could endanger the interests and benefits of the state. On the one hand, there are classified information; on the other hand, there is the right of access to classified information which may be exercised, among others, through an independent and independent State authority of an information officer. It shall be the responsibility of the latter to provide access to information of a public nature and to ensure the protection of personal data. We believe that we do not need an information officer, or at least not to the extent that he is now. He received substantial resources for his activities in 2020, which he did not justify by acting in our opinion. It would be right for that body to properly transform itself so that it can actually carry out its mission rather than punish a small person as a criminal body. It is right for an information officer to work on raising the awareness of citizens, not on criminal policy. In our view, the funds to be taken from this body should be allocated to the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of classified information. The development of IT is making great progress and needs to be responded to in uncertain times. There are increasing numbers of cyber attacks, incursions, online espionage, thefts of intellectual property, dissemination of disinformation, cybercrime and terrorism, which have a significant negative inter-sectoral impact. The only solution is that there is a strong and professional government body in the background that can prevent such acts. It is right for the interests of the State to have strict secrecy provisions allowing it to safeguard its vital interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, 29 January 2020, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item – Defence of the Proposal for a Resolution on the National Programme on Strategic Adjustments of Slovenian Agriculture and Lives “Our Food, Land and Natural Resources after the summer of 2021”. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u120	Dear President, honourable Members! Allow me to briefly present the starting points that led us to draft a resolution, this is the new strategic plan for the development of Slovenian agriculture for the period after 2021. At the outset, allow me to say that this is a strategic political document, so we do not mention measures to support the development of agriculture in the coming period, but create only a basis for the creation of a strategic plan that will follow this document or is already in preparation. Slovenian farmer as carrier of Slovenian landscape and also food production provides food of Slovenian origin, while also caring for the development and processing of Slovenian countryside. Social views and attitudes and thus the views on food production, agriculture and rural development are changing rapidly today. Thus, the farmer is expected to provide, for the first time, all stakeholders involved in the food supply chain with the active role and assistance of the country, safe and quality food and an adequate level of self-sustainment, protect natural resources and respond adequately to climate change and maintain vital and populated rural areas. All of this led to the preparation of the Resolution on the National Programme and Strategic Directions for the Development of Slovenian Agriculture and Rural Development after 2021. The aim of the document is thus to define a fundamental strategic framework for the functioning of agriculture, food and rural areas and is prepared as a basis for new strategic planning after 2021, to which we are, of course, committed to preparing for a new common agricultural policy at the level of the European Union. The Government will take into account all the priorities set out in the resolution when designing the common agricultural policy measures and supporting the functioning of the sector. The draft resolution began at the beginning of the previous year. It was presented to all stakeholders in the field and also coordinated with them. The comments raised during the two-month public hearing are taken into account and in the second half of the year, the resolution was also harmonised in inter-departmental coordination. Thus, a serious consideration was made of all stakeholders, how we affect the future development of Slovenian food production and the Slovenian countryside, we reviewed what was done in the past and looked at what could be improved in the future through the SWOT analysis. In the drafting of the resolution, we have thus come from the needs of agriculture and, on the other hand, from an understanding of the development of a strategic framework based on existing social needs. What, then, will we pay attention to in the coming period? We have found that Slovenian agriculture can be competitive and resilient, given its natural structural characteristics, only with greater added value, which is environmentally sustainable and supports the needs of the consumer. That is why we need knowledge, appropriate production technologies and a modern and competitive food processing industry based on entrepreneurial approaches and market orientation, while the agricultural economy should be linked in the long term to local and larger supply chains with the simultaneous active involvement of the exchange and knowledge process. Special emphasis and a significant amount of public funds are intended to protect the environment and nature, so this should be our advantage and not an obstacle to the economy. We pay great attention to knowledge, creativity, innovation, entrepreneurship and, above all, to the integration of food supply chains that will drive the progress of Slovenian food production and processing and rural development. It is clear that for a processed Slovenia, both forms of agriculture will have to be encouraged – that is to say, the dual structure of agriculture – so small a family farm and, on the other hand, the larger agricultural economies. The wide range of issues directly and indirectly addressed by Slovenian food and rural production and processing requires more than ever the search for synergies and a comprehensive approach in the area of financial, environmental, spatial, regional development, economic, scientific and other policies. The resolution therefore reflects the need to stabilise and ensure an adequate level of income and to reduce dependence on various subsidies. The resolution and its implementing acts will not bring the desired objectives unless we make serious movements in the functioning, values and approaches to agriculture. Joint action must be strengthened, common objectives taken up and changes planned in the dialogue at the level of agricultural holdings and all agricultural stakeholders, and of course all key government decision-makers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the motion for a resolution as a working body at its 15th session, on 15 January 2020. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supported the motion for a resolution. In the debate, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, in an additional explanation for the written opinion, stressed that their written comments to the motion for a resolution were duly taken into account, with the exception of the comment to subsection 3.2 concerning the prohibition of the cultivation of genetically modified plants. The legislative and legal service has drawn attention to the legal arrangements in force under which individual genetically modified plants are authorised to be placed on the market for the purposes of production. Following further reasons for that comment, the Committee has drawn up and adopted its amendment, which takes due account of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Director of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia also participated in the discussion. The Chamber considers that the text of the motion for a resolution is too general, without priorities, and it should also be noted who will oversee the implementation of the objectives of the resolution and how the individual institutions will be responsible for the implementation of the resolution. Furthermore, the Chamber also lacks a clearer commitment by the State to achieve its objectives, and adequate funding is also needed. There are also no indicators to monitor the impact of the implementation of the resolution. In the debate, the representative of the Union of Farmers of Slovenia specifically highlighted the issue of young family farms, which need to be provided with an appropriate area for farming, as more and more residents move from towns to rural areas and thus take up a place for farming. Therefore, the resolution should make it clear that rural areas are intended for farming and that all those who want to live in rural areas must respect the way of life on farms. He also highlighted the necessity of linking farmers to cooperatives and organisations of producers or chain production. While some chains work well, farmers find that there is no instrument in these chains that defines the relationship of individual articles within the chain. He also drew attention to the low prices of crops produced on farms, so food should be given a special place in the resolution and defined as a good that has an appropriate value, which must be accessible to all. It also expressed its belief that the Slovenian consumer should be aware that conventional agricultural production is a safe production, without which it cannot be maintained, which does not constitute an opposition to ecological and other alternative methods of farming. In the debate, the members of the Committee pointed out that the motion for a resolution replaces the adopted resolution “Provide.s food for tomorrow” in 2011, and the new resolution defines more or less the same policies that are already being implemented. Statistics also show that in nine years in the field of agriculture and food we have not achieved positive results; the measures contained in the resolution have not been implemented in agricultural laws. The question was further expressed as to whether the motion for a resolution was not put into the legislative process too quickly. If the broader framework of the common agricultural policy is known, it is also known that there are around 20 billion euro in the European budget due to bauxite, but there is not yet a final agreement on the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027. It is also not known what the amount of agricultural resources will be. The Committee also pointed out that the objectives of the motion for a resolution could not be pursued until it answered some key questions: what is the priority of food production in the future of Slovenia, what role family farms play in food production and what will be the reputation of a farmer in society. Today, young people no longer see an opportunity in agriculture, which is increasingly a sector that is no longer interesting for future generations. As the profession of a farmer is dying out, the resolution just put forward should encourage the search for an answer to the question of how to keep young people on farms. It also draws attention to the following issues: the problem of a society whose operation needs to be modernised, the integration of agricultural producers and food and, in this regard, the provision of fair relations within the chain, the need to strengthen the dialogue between urban and rural populations. The area of modernisation of skills, strengthening the effective transfer of knowledge to final beneficiaries and the need for knowledge to be made useful and useful in the direction of strengthening competitiveness and improving the position of farmers. It further stresses the necessity of technological reconstruction and innovative approach in Slovenian agriculture and the digitisation of Slovenian agriculture. However, in order to improve the quality of life and economic activity in rural areas, it is the view of Committee members that more attention should be paid to the promotion of complementary activities on farms, while bearing in mind that non-agricultural activities on farms, including tourism content, would not become a major activity on farms. On the basis of comments, the Committee adopted two amendments to the Committee and also adopted the amendment of the coalition groups. The Committee also voted on all chapters of the motion for a resolution and also adopted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Karl Urh will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u124	First, a nice greeting for everyone in the hall! Agriculture is the backbone of every country. It is of great social importance, as it ensures quality food supply for the population, preserves the countryside's appearance, preserves the countryside's appearance, prevents cultural degradation and has a strong social role in addition to the economy. Slovenian agriculture has faced many challenges in recent years. Natural conditions are not ideal. Climate and soil, finger, are not enough to make agriculture a success of itself. It is necessary to adapt to climate change, protect the environment and water and preserve the cultural landscape. The problem is also in land fragmentation, which is mainly due to inheritance, and the problem also arises in the composition of the rural population, as most young people are moving to cities, leaving only the elderly who are no longer able to care for land. In addition, we must be aware that agriculture as one of the traditional industries is not immune to all the changes and new technologies that occur at this time. The new reform of the common agricultural policy promises changes in which we will and will be able to create our own agricultural policy to a greater extent, and therefore a careful approach to its design is needed. The motion for a resolution sets out strategic orientations for the development of agriculture and provides the basis for the future preparation of national measures. The production of safe and quality food with a view to ensuring food security and enhancing the competitiveness of agriculture is highlighted and a coherent and social sustainable rural development is also sought. Taking into account the tradition and sustainable use of all natural resources, we will need to identify new opportunities in agriculture and agricultural practices, as agriculture can only be competitive and resilient with a focus on greater added value, which will require knowledge and innovation. In the past, intensive agriculture has prevailed, and today the whole European Union is focused on solar farming, so biofarming and Slovenia has good conditions for such farming. In addition, Slovenia's food policy is focused on locally produced food, usually with fewer additives, richer internal quality and shorter supply chain. Local food production is essential at a low level of self-sustainment with agricultural products as it ensures a reduction of dependence on external trade, conservation of rural jobs, reduces social inequality, protects the environment and last but not least preserves regulated rural areas. We want farmers to be able to become even more connected and perform together in markets in the future, as cooperation and knowledge transfer will be important in the future. We support greater economic activity in rural areas, we advocate strengthening local initiatives and focusing on improving the quality of life in rural areas. We will therefore support the motion for a resolution in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u126	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! The motion for a resolution on the national programme on strategic orientations for the development of Slovenian agriculture and food is a document of exceptional importance as it sets out guidelines and ways in which our agriculture, rural areas and, finally, food production will be protected and developed in the future. As stated in the resolution itself, agriculture and the countryside are affected by every citizen of Slovenia, so it is important that we set our goals and ways, in particular how to preserve and ensure safe and quality food, safe and quality living, and determine and define how to preserve our environment and our nature in the long term. Maintaining vital rural areas, protecting natural resources and responding adequately to climate change, providing safe and quality food and ensuring an adequate level of self-sustainment are the basic frameworks set out in the new strategy for the coming period. At the Congress, we have adopted a document with backgrounds for the renewal of our programme, where we have, inter alia, stated that we support a total ban on the use of genetically modified organisms. It is necessary to raise the level of self-sustainment and promote organic farming in order to produce locally produced quality and safe food. In a sound of environmental concern, the Social Democrats want to encourage and modernise agricultural production. We advocate the view that rural areas and agriculture must be supported by buying locally produced food from public institutions. The development of sustainable agriculture, rural conservation and self-sustainment must be sought. In our programming document, the Social Democrats also stated that the sustainability of products and the re-use of these should be promoted. The motion for a resolution on the national programme on strategic orientations for the development of Slovenian agriculture and food is a document that addresses all the objectives and also all the problems that we recognize in our Group as important and priority, so we will also support the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u128	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Agriculture has always had a special meaning for people. In the past, agriculture has been maintained by the majority of the population, and that is why agriculture has been the most important economic activity in the past. Regardless of the progress we are making as a society in all areas, we must also be aware of its importance today when we face a number of challenges. Let me mention only climate change, which has a significant impact on agriculture, and it will also affect the future if we do not take them in the right way. In the light of the new societal challenges, Slovenian agriculture must therefore become not only environmentally sustainable but also economically interesting and competitive, and we welcome the proposal for a resolution, which, as such, represents a strategic document, in the Modern Centre Party. The motion for a resolution reflects the current situation and, in particular, the need for intervention in the future. The resolution itself identifies the direction of the development of Slovenian food production and processing and the associated rural area. Finally, the resolution also provides a basis for the future preparation of national measures and a single strategic plan for the implementation of the common agricultural policy. In the light of the expected reduced level of resources in the forthcoming financial perspective, the motion for a resolution focuses primarily on the need to ensure an adequate level of income, thereby reducing the dependence of agriculture on subsidies. The provision of sufficient resources in different ways is therefore essential and the motion for a resolution addresses this challenge appropriately. The motion for a resolution also rightly refers to the importance of the structure of Slovenian agriculture; on the one hand, small family farms and businesses and food processing industries on the other. Furthermore, of course, the importance of the sector's resilience to climate change, which we consider very welcome in the Modern Centre Party. The draft resolution sets out as the main objectives: resilient and competitive food production and processing, sustainable management of natural resources and the provision of public goods, raising the quality of life and economic activity in rural areas, and strengthening the design and transfer of knowledge. The objectives mentioned so far will, of course, pose a challenge not only in terms of the increasing impact of climate change but also in terms of the new common agricultural policy. Nevertheless, Slovenia must raise the level of self-sustainment. Slovenians, however, need to start to realize that domestic production is the most healthy and that by consuming domestic products we help Slovenian farmers. Agriculture is the backbone of the economic system of the country and, in addition to providing food and raw materials, offers employment opportunities. In the Modern Centre Party, we are convinced that the motion for a resolution that we have on our seats today adequately addresses all the issues that we are facing in the face of current challenges. In particular, it will be crucial for all stakeholders to play an active role – from the competent ministry to farmers, as well as for us who, with our daily statements, have a decisive impact on the status of agriculture in our society. We will support the motion for a resolution in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In 2011 the National Assembly adopted the Resolution on Strategic Directions for the Development of Slovenian Agriculture and Food until 2020, also called “Provide.si food for tomorrow”. There is no need to read annual reports on the state of agriculture in order to know that we have not provided food for today. The study, commissioned by the Ministry of Agriculture today under the programme “Provide.si food for tomorrow”, found that the intervention logic of agricultural policy is only partially designed and present in trace. A weak and affluent approach to the objectives of rural development policy through measures is also weak. The resolution aimed at providing food to this country to date is a farce. However, agricultural policy has burned to the core in its enforcement, as the provision of domestic food is more dependent on each time-consuming weather than on agricultural policy itself. The new resolution, also referred to as “Our food, rural resources and natural resources after 2021”, no longer sets high targets for ensuring national food supply. He doesn't even promise to achieve those goals. The resolution we are considering is not the basis of a new agricultural policy. On the contrary, the new resolution is nothing more than a forecast of the implementation of old failed policies that do not allow the development of agriculture and the increase of self-sustainment with food; it only continues to decline to thousands of agricultural holdings and the wealth of a handful of noblemen in their hills. This resolution is a definitive capitulation of Slovenian agricultural policy before the European Union Central European Union dictatorship, which tailors the European Union's agricultural policy according to their needs, at the expense of the collapse of our agriculture and its proletarisation. This year, too, the number of organic farms has decreased and Slovenia is moving away from the growing trend of organic agriculture in other European Union Member States. According to the motion for a resolution, the consumer will continue to bear the full responsibility of maintaining, promoting national production of healthy and quality food. The State is limited to its awareness and awareness of other stakeholders in the food chain. The importance of values, the importance of entrepreneurship of agriculture and so on is highlighted. In doing so, it ignores the fundamental legality of the capitalist economic environment, where there is no value, but iron competition laws. Laws where each so-called shareholder tries to make money at the expense of another, while all serve on the shoulders of the worker and farmer. The resolution is long-lastingly shot at by liberal ideology, which places on the pedestal a business and business-related individual who succeeds in the market with innovative technological solutions. Solidarity and mutual assistance, which have been the foundation of farmers' survival for centuries, are on the sidelines, together with a partnership that should be the basis for the development of Slovenian agriculture. In the resolution, the so-called business individuals will prosper, who are nothing more than a host of state subsidies for dipped farmers, while small farms are disappearing. In the absence of concrete policies to increase agricultural production, the resolution is increasingly focusing on the expansion of complementary activities in agriculture, in particular in rural tourism, where selected food for fifth gourmets will be produced on a handful of farms and the rest of the time will be devoted to preserving the natural cultural landscape for the purposes of leisure and recreation. National self-sustainment will only be a fleeting memory, and Slovenian food will get angry because it will slowly become rare and expensive as gold and the people of this country will be more and more bound to the central states of the European Union. The Slovenian agricultural policy has been missed for the past ten years, and the resolution that continues this policy is concrete as the foundation of the future is even more flawed. That is why we will not support this resolution in the left hand side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u132	Your Honor! The Slovenian countryside is constantly in the process of transformation, as on average two farms are closed each day. This is certainly not encouraging information. The agricultural sector is shrinking considerably, and we have before us a resolution which is a policy-strategic document without a professional aspect, while this resolution will be the basis for the preparation of a strategic plan for the implementation of the common agricultural policy, which will allow the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Rural Development Fund to draw up funds from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund. European agricultural policy is changing and it is expected that agricultural policy in Slovenia will change as a result. For the next financial perspective, 2021-2027 is seriously forecasting a decrease in funding. Slovenia, as a net recipient, has so far received funds for its programmes that have enabled processed rural areas and the persistence of life on hill farms. In Nova Slovenije, we wonder whether the Ministry will be able to provide this in the future. The resolution does not bring or mention solutions that would stop the negative trends in the ageing of the farming population and would work towards the rejuvenation of the age structure of farmers. In Novi Slovenije, we once again point out the aspect of the non-application of scholarships for the farmer's profession. Due to the uncompetitive conditions faced by young farmers compared to peers in other professions, it is completely uninteresting. Improving the situation and greater interest in agricultural activities is possible only if we provide young people who are interested in taking over the farm and thereby agricultural activities so that they can support their families and also have some free time for the family. The resolution does not state the importance of family farms for the conservation of rural settlements and the production of healthy food, so it is very important to ask what will be the relation to the farmer in society, including in terms of ensuring safe quality food, protecting natural water resources and responding to climate change. In Novi Slovenija we do not agree to the pressure of various civilian movements and their intrusion into agricultural economies, as has been the case in the past month. We don't land like that! The resolution cannot therefore explain what are the priorities and where Slovenian agriculture will focus in the coming period. The resolution has no clear objectives defined, no timeline set and, what is very important, no financial framework; therefore, Members of New Slovenia cannot support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u134	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a document that is extremely important for Slovenian agriculture. Not only is it possible to understand the current situation in agriculture, but it also clearly sets out what will have to be done in the future in the area of agriculture. The resolution provides in a transparent manner the development guidelines set out in the current framework in which agriculture is moving. These guidelines will not only create documents related to the common agricultural policy, but also many others. It is only right that all these documents are based on a well-structured act that accurately defines the objectives and launches the issue of mechanisms to achieve them. Of course, the main challenge is just ahead — to put all of this into practice. The fact is that Slovenian agriculture is ahead of a difficult period. The Slovenian farmer has already faced a number of challenges every day, which will be reinforced by the fact that European funds for agriculture are falling considerably in the future financial perspective. All these challenges will need to be addressed to the greatest extent possible; however, for this to be possible, it is necessary to create an agricultural policy that will succeed. There are more problems that will need to be given particular attention and that will require an ambitious approach. For example, the Slovenian countryside has been plagued by the problem of eviction for years. How to prevent young people from leaving agriculture and thus limit rural poverty? We know how risky agriculture is in itself. Since then, the unpredictable weather situation with climate change has become even more uncertain. The market is more unforgivable than ever before; price fluctuations in it as well as the demands of growing consumers. Young people leave farms, among other things, or to the greatest extent because long hours of hard work and denial simply do not reflect themselves in this appropriate income. In the SAB Group, we therefore welcome the key strategic objective of the resolution, which addresses the need to stabilise and ensure an adequate level of income for farmers. Another major challenge facing Slovenian agriculture is the increasing resilience of the sector. There is a need to improve the competitiveness of farms and to increase their sustainability. I have already mentioned that the dimension of climate change is deepening, so it is necessary to consider how to make these changes as much as possible and how to mitigate them as possible. The search for solutions that will ease income losses and limit damage from this title will not be easy and will require considerable thinking beyond the established frameworks. In the years to come, it is also possible to expect that self - care and food independence will continue to be given meaning and value. And we have a lot of work to do here, too. It is also important not to forget the importance of complying with the requirements of the Slovenian consumer, but also his awareness of the importance of the use of local food. The resolution also highlights the need for strengthening and transferring skills, with digitalisation as one of the key for the future. New technologies are fundamentally affecting all areas of human life, and agriculture is no exception. Here we can look forward to digitisation, especially in the sense that it will make it easier for the farmer to work and relieve him. It is also possible to promise that more young people who are close to new technologies will be left in this rural account or even relocated to it. I've only touched a few areas, even though they're huge. The debate on the working body also showed that the challenges in Slovenian agriculture will not run out; on the contrary. However, it is important that we do not all run out of power or start to solve them. We will support the resolution in the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Branko Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Member of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The motion for a resolution on the national programme on strategic guidelines for the development of Slovenian agriculture and food “Our food, rural and natural resources after 2021” is a document prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, together with all stakeholders in the field of agriculture, including NGOs, which combine different associations in the field of agriculture and the food industry. In the Desus Group, we are pleased to hear that at the meeting of the parent working body by invited guests, we have heard that this important, political and strategic document, which reflects the current situation in agriculture and, above all, focuses on the needs and interventions of agriculture in the coming period, is also supported by those who, with their dedication and efforts, care that we have more and more quality, locally produced food on our tables, while at the same time caring for the order of the Slovenian countryside. This document is being prepared at a time when the future financial perspective is constantly approaching, for which key strategic documents, such as this resolution before us today, still need to be drawn up. These documents will be a plan to draw European funds from all those funds that are intended for agriculture, namely the European Agricultural Fund and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The resolution basically reflects the current situation in Slovenian agriculture and focuses in particular on the needs and interventions of agriculture in the coming period. In some ways, therefore, this document represents the developmental direction of Slovenian food production and processing, as well as the further development of rural space. It should be noted, however, that the resolution is merely the basis for the future preparation of national measures and at the same time the basis for a single strategic plan for the implementation of the agricultural policy group. The resolution does not, therefore, yet talk about the mechanisms and measures by which we will implement the common agricultural policy, but we are really only talking about the orientations of these measures. The Ministry wants to address in particular the urgent need to stabilise and ensure an adequate level of income for farmers by means of a motion for a resolution, thereby reducing much dependence on subsidisation support; this does not mean that they will be abolished, but rather, for a longer period, allowing a farmer to create an adequate income by working and selling crops on the market. The resolution aims at four specific objectives, which are also based on the fundamental strategic development frameworks of Slovenia, as set out in the 2030 Strategy for the Development of Slovenia. These objectives are: resilient and competitive food production and processing, sustainable management of natural resources and the provision of public goods, raising the quality of life and economic activity in rural areas, and a horizontal objective, strengthening the design and transfer of knowledge. Members of the Desus Group believe that the Ministry, in cooperation with all NGOs in the field of agriculture, has prepared a good document and we will support it. At the same time, we are pleased that the exemplary cooperation between the ministry, non-governmental organisations and others wishing to participate in this in any way will continue in the preparation of the strategic plan, so that, immediately after the adoption of the key European documents, the ministry can very specifically define the various measures set out in the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u138	Good evening to you all, especially the Minister of Agriculture! The explanation states that the resolution is a political and strategic document reflecting the current situation and the need for intervention in the future. First of all, who made the resolution? What was the cost of preparing this resolution? How many external contractors participated in the preparation? Above all, how many food producers and processors have participated in the drafting of the resolution? I would rather have five concrete measures prepared to improve the situation of Slovenian agriculture than to write documents on a long-term basis without content. People have enough good words, a variety of resolutions and other documents that have no effect. I'm going to touch the price of home-cooked food. I'm sure all Slovenians want to eat quality home food. The problem is the price of such food. A kilo of bread in the store is half the euro, and a kilogram of homemade bread is 8 euros. The head of the salad is in a half-euro store, there are 3 euros in the market. A litre of milk is in a half-euro store and domestic milk is half-euro. A kilo of pork in the store is 3 euros and domestic pork costs 8 euros. By the time people get 500 euros in pension or 700 euros in salary, they will be buying cheap food because they are forced to do so. And here is a vicious circle – people have low incomes and buy cheap food. Shops supply cheap foreign food because Slovenian is simply too expensive. Traders have profits at the expense of cheap foreign products and Slovenian food producers have no turnover. Since cheap food is not the most quality, people have health problems. The problem is the price of food, and this resolution does not solve it. I'm going to touch a little bit of Slovenian food consumption. Data on the amount of food we throw away are often available in the media. We must strictly follow the principle that all food produced in Slovenia is always consumed first. Food growers complain that their quality food cannot penetrate kindergartens, schools, hospitals, and so on. Reason? The price of food again. If food producers don't sell, they'll lose. And they have it. If they lose, they won't make any more food. And there's still bad foreign food. And that's what's happening to us today. I'm gonna touch the protection of agricultural land a little bit. The best agricultural land should be absolutely protected. We have enough degraded areas inside and on the outskirts of cities to build apartments and factories. Any change in the OPN in our municipalities reduces the size of agricultural land; and this is not right. Unfortunately, the ministry agrees. Border agricultural land should not be sold to foreigners, but should be purchased by our domestic farmers, the country or the municipality. Help with the sale. We Slovenians are known as very bad merchants. It's hard to sell. Slovenian producers also need help selling. How will the country help farmers not only in Slovenia but also when they enter foreign markets? We have quite a few individual producers, such as winemakers, who have already succeeded in foreign markets. They did it on their own, without the help of the state. The country should also use Slovenian products as protocol gifts. Next year, Slovenia will preside over the Council of the European Union. I hope they only serve Slovenian food. Another very important thing. Do not kill Slovenian agriculture with bureaucracy. For this we have a number of officials by municipalities and state authorities to fill out the forms. Today, every farmer must be a secretary, an accountant and so on. And there's something else about the negative sound of a farmer. Unfortunately, the Slovenian dictionary also equates the word farmer with an awkward or unscrupulous man. A farmer cannot be awkward because he manages livestock, with many machines, and processes the land. I know more indecorated people among those who don't process the land than among those who process it. That's why it would take our celebrations a little bit for the ears. Farmers should also be protected by inspection authorities. If a farmer sells one litre of homemade milk, it is immediately black work and tax evasion. If a farmer takes a tractor down the road to his field, the impatient drivers whine at him, the editors ask him to clean up the mud he brought to the road, and so on. But the public complains that shit stinks. The farmer is in every direction, but at the same time, everyone would like home food. It doesn't work together. It just doesn't work. We will certainly support the resolution in the Slovenian National Party, but we expect the Minister to take concrete measures to improve the situation of Slovenian food producers and processors this calendar year. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities will be presented by Ferenc Horváth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Tishtet Hölgyim és Uraim, juice sherettel köszöntöm Önöket! Un cordiale saluto and tutti! In the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group we welcome the preparation of the draft resolution on the national programme on strategic directions for the development of Slovenian agriculture and food "Our food, rural and natural resources after 2021" and support it. Perhaps the proposal for this document is premature in view of the fact that it is not yet known how much funding will be allocated to the common agricultural policy by 2027. However, it is not premature in view of the negative trends in agriculture in recent decades. Food production is not increasing and the number of agricultural holdings is declining if I mention only two problematic areas. The preparation of national measures and a single strategic plan for the implementation of the common agricultural policy in the new period is very important and will have to provide appropriate solutions for the further development of Slovenian agriculture and food, which will become competitive, economically interesting and environmentally sustainable. The Member of the Italian and Hungarian national communities would like to point out that the proposal for a document is important for the further development of Prekmurje as the cereals of Slovenia and also Istria. It is important for Prekmurje to keep young people in rural areas by appropriate measures. This can also be achieved through appropriate solutions for the transfer of family farms to new generations and the promotion of young family farms. The integration of farmers into production chains and the development of storage and processing facilities would also be necessary, allowing producers to sell their products at a higher market price. Appropriate approaches also need to develop vineyards, including by combining smaller vineyards and reviving abandoned vineyards. We also expect appropriate measures for the damage caused by beasts and game in agriculture. The motion for a resolution does not mention the role of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests for that period as an important owner of agricultural land and forests in Slovenia. The document also lacks mention of sea fishing in Istria with appropriate objectives and measures. We expect an adequate solution to the status and social problems of marine fishermen, especially those who fish for bluefish. The traditional way of catching fish in the Gulf of Markets could become a cultural heritage of national importance. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u141	Thank you very much. As a last resort, it is the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, which will be presented by Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! What should I say in response to the motion for a resolution on the national programme on strategic orientations for the development of Slovenian agriculture and food? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that we are living in a world that is fundamentally changing. We apply this almost every day in the National Assembly, where there are many initiatives, solutions, legislative proposals related to the future of Slovenia in various areas; also in the area of agriculture of the 21st century. Of course, it is not possible to predict exactly what new technologies will bring us. So we have some frameworks, these are the shifts in political-economic relations and changes in the natural environment as well. This also applies to Slovenian agriculture and rural areas, which are the subject of this strategic document that we have on the table and are a particularly sensitive part of the social fabric. Indirectly and directly, agriculture and rural areas also touch every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, determine the quality of stay and space for leisure, and to a certain extent shape the state of the environment and the state of our nature. Social relations and views on food production in agriculture and rural areas are changing rapidly. Modern citizens and the public expect stakeholders in the food supply chain in the active role of the country to provide, in particular, safe and quality food and an appropriate level of self-sustainment. They will protect natural resources, respond adequately to climate change and also maintain vital rural areas. Farming in the Slovenian space in addition to its strategic function, i.e. food production, also marks a strong spatial and environmental role. The economic and social impact of this economic activity is an extremely important building block for economic growth and, above all, the new rural jobs created by the new agricultural economies and the new inhabitants of the urban environment. Also in the debate on the Committee, we had this theme that even those from the urban environment and to a large extent now move to rural areas could be welcome in the countryside, and many do not realize that they are in rural areas. The countryside has its own specifics. Sometimes it does not have the cleanest roads, the city scent; but it has some characteristics that can be a good basis for the development of new jobs and especially for the development of a farmer who must become a model profession of the 21st century and a number of professions also in the Slovenian educational system. So the Slovenian countryside is in the process of permanent transformation. A new definition of rural importance is needed, which enhances the reputation of agriculture and farmers in society, while rural development is geared towards high quality of life and society, local community connectivity and the relationship between the city and the countryside. The highly diverse Slovenian countryside is characterized by a number of landscape specificities that have a decisive impact on the ability and quality of living, the scope and type of land use and on the chosen method of farming – economics and also the volume of production. The quality of life in rural areas is linked to the preservation of agricultural and cultural landscapes, natural heritage at an appropriate level of digitisation, mobility, accessibility to public services and job creation, the application and regulation of modern environmentally sustainable farming and the so-called circular economy. Agriculture is an economic sector in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party and also in the view of some other parties, with express multilateral effects. That is why we are particularly aware of this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In all its multi-purposeness, there is a sector that already partially meets social expectations related to food, natural resources and rural areas. With a view to strengthening this social role and at the same time to make agriculture resilient, competitive, economically interesting, environmentally sustainable, so that the countryside is attractive to the life of the wider population in cohabitation, it is therefore necessary to undertake reconstruction and development of Slovenian agriculture, in particular the food supply chain from the Slovenian countryside. We need to adapt and improve agricultural policy in order to be able to respond to the new challenges of the 21st century, as I say more often as Chairman of the Committee. Before I conclude, let me just say that this resolution and its implementing acts will not bring the desired objectives unless we make serious movements in the functioning, values and approaches of agriculture. Joint action should be strengthened and common objectives taken up and changes planned at the agricultural level should be planned in the dialogue. The resolution is an effort for a new chapter on the development of Slovenian agriculture and rural areas. It means consciously adapting to new societal challenges and searching, and we will therefore support this motion for a resolution in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u143	Thank you very much. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place tomorrow, 29 January 2020, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and interrupt the 15th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice trip home, bye!
