ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 53rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, Article 60, paragraph 1, and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 86th meeting. 12. 2020. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Carmen Furman, Nada Brinovšek, Franc Rosec, Franc Kramar and Samo Bevk until 2 p.m. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, no member or Member has announced participation at a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly using an application for remote meetings. I have invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General to the 1st item of the agenda, Mr Saša Gržinič, representatives of five thousand elections and electors, as the candidate for the 7th item of the agenda, the representative of the Council for the 14th item of the agenda and representatives of the Government for all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be set at a distance by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a reference, so we shall not vote on it. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 40 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order for the question to be asked shall be set in accordance with Article 244(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot request an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal being used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, Interior Minister Aleš Hojs apologized for today. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. Jani Prednik, SD, will ask him first.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u2	The President is most grateful for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In these days we have already adopted the seventh so-called anti-korona package. President, you have repeatedly been warned from various addresses that the Government does not conduct sufficient dialogue with affected groups. Therefore, the proposals for measures also showed content that was totally unnecessary. Many of the affected social groups, but who in fact expect and need help, have not been included in these measures. An excuse made possible by the so-called package approach was easy to come up with with this last PKP7. People can no longer wait for the next package, nor do they understand why the government is wasting energy and also time responding to the epidemic and to topics that have no connection with the epidemic, and are consuming precious resources, money, time and attention to all of us. Dear Prime Minister, on 29 March, you had a press conference where you said: “We will not forget anyone.” Today, eight, nine months later, we can find out that this is not the case. Any help is still awaited by people who survive on copyright and business contracts. Even health - care workers get nothing from cleaners. 2.2 billion is not working because it is too complicated and too slow, as the Social Democrats have also been alerted to. On the other hand, we may even have the prospect of opening up everything else than schools because of certain lobbying pressures. Uncoordinated, complicated and completely bureaucratic and also inadequately communicated measures are in addition to the already established confidence both in you and in your government and in the entire policy. However, trust is essential that people can follow the rules and thus instill the spread of infection. Yesterday, we were able to learn from the media that the crossing of municipal borders will require an application. I'm asking you here: Don't you think there's going to be some inequality between those who have or have an app and those who don't have it and those who can't even have it? This application is voluntary and will result in some discrimination. In view of all the above, I also ask you: In your opinion, have the social dialogue and coordination with the affected groups so far been appropriate in preparing measures to combat the epidemic? How do you plan to carry out the preparation of anti-epidemic measures in the future in order to avoid violations of social dialogue, new planted content and forgotten groups? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u3	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u4	Thank you so much for asking. You will also be able to ask an additional question below, which is always used, and please name one citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who has not been addressed in the six anti-Korona packages so far. I think now, if we look at the whole, we've addressed everyone, everyone, not one has been released, for the first time in Slovenian history. Whether they all got the right one or they all got enough, that's another question. However, the real material possibilities must be taken into account here. That's one. Besides, the epidemic isn't over. We have a third third ahead of us, which can be the most difficult of the entire epidemic, and we need to think about the next three months. As far as social dialogue is concerned. One of the first measures taken by the government following the oath was the re-establishment of the Economic and Social Council. You know that in the previous mandates in which you yourself participated, there were periods when the Economic and Social Council did not work at all, it did not meet at all because it had been abandoned by individual partners, and these institutions did not actually exist. This year since 13 March, the Economic and Social Council, although it was not established at the time and we had to establish and put it into operation, held ten meetings at the time of the epidemic, hundreds of hours of such and different negotiations and coordination, not only have we coordinated measures always in great time constraints due to the needs of this institution, but also with individual stakeholders. Looking back on the last 10 years of statistics, we will see how many times the previous presidents of governments have met with the social partners during their term of office and how many times I have spent in this mandate, how many hours together we have spent in different coordinations, not to mention the most responsible ministries and ministers. The government has also changed its rules of procedure and decision-making precisely because of social dialogue. So that now the government will first adopt these packages in the draft, then we will coordinate this draft with the social partners, and only then will the government adopt the bill and send it to the National Assembly. Now you're talking about the seventh package. The seventh package isn't on your food yet, and the government hasn't accepted it yet. She'll see him Thursday. Last week we adopted a draft and this draft is now in intensive social dialogue within the Economic and Social Council. The fact that not all the demands or proposals of the social partners are always taken into account does not mean that there is no social dialogue, because many times these proposals are huge and contradictory. The Economic and Social Council is composed three-partitely precisely because there are different interests in society and compromises need to be coordinated and accepted in the end. And we've been doing this all year. To say that there is no social dialogue, because some requirement that has not gone through has not been taken into account, that is, I will say, very much in mind. If we also look at the comparison with the other Member States of the European Union on social dialogue, show me one country where there is more at this time. It is agreed that after a draft of these anti-Korona packages has been made, at least 72 hours for social dialogue, and we take this into account. We take that absolutely into account. However, it is not possible to wait months and months for the epidemic to come together, although we know in advance that it will not. This is also the responsibility of the Government to take such measures in due time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u5	Comrade Prednik, you have the floor for the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u6	President, thank you for your answer. The problem, not only yours, but also today’s world, is to listen with a view to replicating without understanding what the talker is telling us. I have mentioned those who are living with copyright and business contracts and have not received any assistance. However, I did not say that there was no social dialogue, but I asked you how you assess the social dialogue you have so far. Another problem with your actions is complexity and bureaucracy. Because the rules you write are complicated, people spend a lot of time looking for explanations as to what they can, what they can't, what's not allowed, what's not allowed, and, of course, they find a huge exception, which unfortunately also allows them to break. This package marriage approach, which mixes unbiased content with one another, is clearly contrary to your promises, Mr President, to de-de-irocraticizing the country and simplifying the rules. Before the elections, you said that for every new regulation, two should be abolished. And you're not holding on to that right now. Unfortunately, we can find that you are not a debirocratizer, but you are a complicator, except for some stakeholders, such as religious workers. Before you attack me, it's ideological, it's not ideological. Without evidence of injury, religious workers will receive this basic income without proving anything, and others will not. And you like to talk about first-class and second-class citizens. But people have the feeling that one of them will get 700 Euros of UTD, the other is second-rate. Secondly, I can mention the wealthy buyers of expensive cars, which you will be able to buy at a significantly lower price by debirocraticizing cars, which are very expensive, 80, 90, 100 000 euros. And only the richest can afford it. Most of us can't afford it in here either. And that's why I'm asking you: Can we expect you to take greater account of social dialogue in the future? As a positive note, as we can understand from the media, you have taken this into account when withdrawing the freezing of the minimum wage from the PKP7, which is what it is, Mr President. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u8	Social dialogue within the Economic and Social Council is still on the minimum wage. The government will be happy to follow the solution proposal if it is coordinated. So this topic is still open. As for cars, see, the richest, and you have very many in your kind, expensive cars buy across Europe anywhere if they have money. And then the taxes go there. It is in our interest that tax policy is such that taxes are paid in the Slovenian budget. We are pursuing this goal, not some demagogic goal. As far as social dialogue is concerned, once again, no one has been forgotten. Universal basic income was earned by all those who were not addressed through other instruments. Waiting for work, subsidising income, now covered even fixed costs, in one package a number of solutions. Look, Slovenia is not the only country in the epidemic. Similar laws are passed everywhere. As far as bureaucracy is concerned, yes, that's the problem, but it didn't occur at the time of the epidemic. At the time of the epidemic, this problem further exacerbated the possibility of rapid response. If we hadn't gone with six packages, which suddenly interfered with a number of laws, and we would have intervened separately in each of these laws, you would still be considering the second anti-Korona package that we adopted in April. These are the usual routines in our country. It's the other way around. We are precisely this approach, and we were not the only ones – see the laws adopted by Austria, Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, France, Italy – we were able to react in a timely manner through this approach. If not, the economic picture would be significantly worse, and so, at the time of the epidemic, we received either confirmed positive assessments from credit rating agencies or even improved. As a result, our debt is cheaper and our social state can be richer as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Comrade Prednik, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u10	Of course, all praise goes to PKP1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. Seven, as we say, we've never seen before. But we also warned you of the speed of this. We could take a day, two, three more to make certain nonsense that occurred inside, especially here in Parliament. Since this is a very important topic, and since it has also occurred in practice after certain nonsense, I propose, on the basis of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that a broader discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 December 2020, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by colleague Luka Mesec, Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u12	Thank you very much. A nice hello. Dear Prime Minister, Slovenia has been in lockdown for 8 weeks, yet we are the first in the European Union to manage the crisis poorly, how many infections we have, how many deaths. In other words, we have the longest closure of public life in the region, but after all the results, we are the worst. Even your ministers, Mr Janša, for example Zdravko Restovalšek, admitted last week that Slovenia, I quote, "found itself in a blind alley with regard to the crown of crisis" and that, I quote, “epidemia developed into a psychological crisis of trust”. In short, people don't trust you. And it's not hard to figure out why. In the first wave, somewhere in between, Slovenia cut off the affair by buying fans and masks and related corruption deals. What's been going on for the last eight weeks since we've been in lockdown goes beyond all limits of reason. While there were 60 people dying a day, companies were failing, people were losing jobs, hopes and relatives, you were doing what? If I just give you a few things: you blocked the funds of the Slovenian Press Agency, tried to head RTV, released Hungary into the second track, passed the law on 780 million weapons purchases, banned referendums, some rapper just took the status of self-employed in culture, as if Furs had blocked someone's company, because he said something against the government, arguing with protestors, culturers, foreign diplomats. I am now reading on the government's side that you are teaching foreign academics that they have fallen under the influence, quote, “extremely left of the Slovenian Academy”, then subjugated some snowmen before parliament, stopped paying the filmmakers and put them on the brink of bankruptcy, named Roko Snezic's friend as director of the National Investigation Office, appointed the municipal councillor of the SDS from the Municipality of the Watch Tower for the Director of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, proclaimed Donald Trump as the winner of the American elections, voted against the resolution of the World Health Organization, which would provide humanitarian assistance to Palestinians in crisis, go to buy weapons in Israel, tweeted hundreds of times a day, crowned instead of using the Official Journal, announced through Twitter, which you had to be warned by the Constitutional Court, started losing access to the open sea, and some Karnacillastst in your party. Here's what I'm going to say, Mr. Janša, under your rule we have really divided into first and second-class. While second-rate loss of work, hope, relatives, income of the company, you, first-class, are toying with some kind of revolution. Therefore, my question is essentially as follows, Mr Janša: But do you even want to end this epidemic as soon as possible, because it seems to me that you are in a position to do what is right?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u14	Look, there's a real cruel world with real problems that need to be solved, and there's a virtual reality that you've described, that lives in which those who have no responsibility, and I'll say, are rapidly creating. In this real world, according to the Ministry of Health, Slovenia had 120 beds for acute hospital treatment available on 13 March 2020, when our government took an oath, today it has a thousand 391 beds. On March 13th, when the government swore, we had 19 beds available for intensive treatment, today we have 219. If we didn't do it, we wouldn't be sitting here today because it would be a disaster. Well, compared to the problems we're facing, they didn't occur overnight. In 2015, Slovenia had 451 beds per 100,000 inhabitants in the health system and 442 by the end of 2019. That's 30 less in five years. Germany had 813 beds in 2015, says once more than Slovenia, 100,000 inhabitants and more at the end of last year. This is the real world, of which those who have no responsibility know nothing, or even if they do know, simply blur it out. This government deals with the epidemic and its consequences and with the situation in which these consequences will have to be addressed. I'll just count you a few things last week. In addition to the efforts we have made to release €800 billion for the next 10 years for the European economy, of which €10 billion for Slovenia, and not only are these 10 billion important, because a thousand 800 billion is needed, because if the European economy works well, then the Slovenian economy works well because we are part of the single market, we have an export-oriented economy. And we did it. If we hadn't managed to get through this blockade together, the situation in Europe today would have been extremely black. In addition, in the last week, we signed a strategic partnership agreement with the United States, not with one administration or another, but with the first economic power of the world, we signed an agreement with them on cooperation in the field of peaceful or civilian use of nuclear energy. We signed an innovation agreement with Israel, Israel is the sixth most innovative country in the world and the second since the achievements of artificial intelligence, which is one of our priorities. In addition, ministers of foreign affairs and agriculture in the Vatican have promoted Slovenia as a friendly and tourist destination at events accompanied by billions of people. In addition, intensive work took place throughout the week to prepare measures for the following weeks and for the following months, because three difficult months are ahead of us in the fight against the epidemic. The government is dealing with the epidemic, but unfortunately the opposition does not deal with anything other than the demolition of the government at the time of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u15	Comrade Moon, you have your word for a request to complete your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u16	Thank you. About how much the government deals with the epidemic, the data talk, and I said that we are the worst in the European Union. I'm asking you a question because I'm worried it's just a prediction of where you're going to take this country if we leave you in power. Just like you planted the epidemic, you're gonna blow up a lot of other things. I told you before what you've been doing for the last eight weeks, if I put this in context. It's foreign policy. Slovenia was once considered to be a model between the transition countries, for the country that best carried out the transition and maintained the highest standard of living because we kept public education, health care, infrastructure at home and because, in principle, governments were able to put national interest ahead of the party's. Where are we now? In the EU, you have put us in some infamous society of Orbana and Kaczynski. At home, Croatia and the Italians are playing us so that we can obviously lose access to the open sea. However, the interests of the country are subordinated to the party interest and you are selling little to Hungary, turning us into some kind of Vassal state of the Orban Empire. If Slovenia has recently been regarded as a free and open society, we are now regarded as, quote, “a society with a married public space”. If we have recently sought to ensure that Slovenia will be a society where everyone progresses according to their abilities, we are now – where? To put state institutions in the hands of people who have no other reference than your longtime faithful municipal councilors, and the National Bureau of Investigation into the hands of a friend of Roca Snezič, a convicted tax collector whom you have met — where? On the Age. No wonder, Mr. Janša, people who are capable of leaving you like you are Fafangel or you don't want those who are capable of being around you. I repeat, given that you've been in traffic for eight weeks: Do you even intend to [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u17	Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u18	In the real world where real data are valid, not the ones you launch or read in Slovenian media, Slovenia is not the worst in the fight against the epidemic in Europe. Different countries have different data because they are at different stages of the epidemic wave. What will eventually count will be common data. We could do better if we worked together to stop the virus, not because of the government or because of the opposition, but because the virus endangers the health and life of everyone. And you take that as a political struggle with us. And as bad as possible, the better for you. With such an approach, data will never be excellent, but they are not the worst in Europe, not health, not social, not political and not economic. As for the achievements of the previous week, I have forgotten to add that the two countries that have the right to declare the exclusive economic zone in the Adriatic have invited us to dialogue because of our reputation. See, in 2005, Slovenia announced the environmental protection zone as a response to Croatia's unilateral move. What's red is what we did. Then came the masters of arbitration, an arbitral verdict stating that Slovenia does not have the right to declare economic or any zone in international waters, which says we have Junction, but we do not have territorial contact with international waters. It is primarily about the goodwill of neighbouring countries to invite us along, and we have achieved this. But now that we've lost territorial access to international waters, look, I've heard a lot of nonsense before, but this is one of the biggest this year, this is one of the biggest this year. Who canceled this law? Who changed the maritime code on the basis of an arbitral ruling? Your Honor, take note of a little of the facts. I wonder how much Slovenia would be involved in these steps if we still had a previous government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Comrade Moon, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, with that first sentence you said everything. They lie to the Slovenian media and talk about virtual reality. Here's what I'm going to tell you. For you, obviously, everyone lies, lies to Slovenian media, lies to the world media, lies to the European Union, lies to the West, everyone lies except for this universe that you have established around the New24 and the related media network. It is difficult for you to express yourself about what virtual reality is, because virtual reality has been created for your political needs, so that you can do what you want for a part of the public, but they will not read it or resent it, because they will say, “No, everyone else is lying except us”. This, as I told you earlier, is very dangerous because you have brought Slovenia into a situation where fellow citizens can no longer agree on whether the sky is blue or yellow. Your parents are going to say it's yellow because who's lying to them? New24 says they're lying to those who say it's blue. Here we are. And this is an extremely dangerous situation. Therefore, I repeat: Slovenia will not be the first or the last country to be destroyed by a click of power. If you look around the neighborhood of the former Yugoslav Republic, how the movies have been spinning there for the last 30 years, you will see similar stories, as we end up watching in Slovenia today. That is why I propose that we discuss this thoroughly in the National Assembly, because we probably do not want to slip among the failed state, nor do we want Slovenia to remain slaughtered on its knees and weak as it is today. I hope we haven't been to such a low point in 30 years. Above all, I propose that we discuss this in the National Assembly, because our situation is unique in that all of what we are following is a steep fall in Slovenia, is held at the end of a dozen Members who consider themselves to be middle, liberal and hold on to these governments mainly because they are afraid of early elections. It is for a few 15 parliamentary salaries of a dozen Members we will push Slovenia down this clan. The debate on this is more than necessary in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u21	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 December, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Masha Kociper, SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u22	Thank you, President. Nice greeting, esteemed Prime Minister! In the SAB, we are convinced that independent and impartial media are one of the key foundations of each democratic and legal state, as the so-called fourth branch of government also performs an important supervisory function. On the other hand, your negative or negative attitude toward the so-called mainstream media, as you call them, is well - known and has been shown just before. It appears through your statements, many tweets, even those for which you must then defend yourselves before the courts, as well as letters, acts and laws prepared by your government. Discretions of journalists and editors attempts to decommission RTV Slovenia also by calling for non-payment of a subscription, appointing one of the POP TV broadcasts for the largest opposition party, stopping funding and thereby establishing an illegal position in relation to the Slovenian Press Agency and controversial media legislation, all of these are evidence that shows that our media landscape does not suit you and this government and that you understand and represent media pluralism somewhat in your own way. At the same time, the Hungarian influence in the media field is increasing. Hungarians or people and businesses in the interest of Mr Orban have already bought Nova24 TV and Planet TV. It is also said that the most likely buyers are the portal Siol.net. You personally, Mr President, are pleased to welcome the sale of the Pro Plus Media House to the Czech Major Peter Kellner. Pro Plus is, of course, a media house under which POP TV and Channel A belong. You said you even wanted to meet with him, and after reporting some media, you were also supposed to meet on 3. 12. 2020. The honourable President, the opposition and the public are interested in: Why did you want to meet with the new owner of the Pro Plus Media House, or were you 3. 12. Then they also actually met, and what did they discuss at this meeting? Can we really worry about pursuing the end of POP TV as we know it and about some version of New24? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u23	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u24	Look, all I can do is repeat your first sentence. Professional and independent media are in the sole interest of the party I run, the government I run, I think of all citizens and citizens. During our first government 2004-2008, media freedom in Slovenia increased by 50% according to international criteria. By the criteria of the institutions that you like to quote. Look at the graphs and you'll see. We are working to ensure that this is also the case in this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u25	Masha Kociper, you have the floor for a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u26	I've got an extra one, yeah. In view of your response, I would then say that the words spoken by Mrs Hribar, who says that the government has agreed to the STA, are valid because, from here on out, I quote, “because only the electorate knows what is true and what is false, so they know what is absolute truth”. So who's the one who tells you what's independent and what's biased? Is it really just you, Mr. President? Given everything that's going on, I hope you understand that we're interested in how you see our media landscape and the development of our country's media. We are in a situation where the global crisis is a health crisis, and it is particularly important that real and credible information is available to all citizens and to all people. And when it's particularly important that we don't use fake news. There is a trend and development abroad in this direction to strengthen independent, public media, which then assumes control and control over reporting independently and impartially. The trend is different with us. You haven't answered my question whether you've met with Mr. Peter Kellner, why you've met and what you've been talking about. Can we worry that they were talking about changing editorial and journalistic policies on POP TV — or about change or about some Czech investments that you would prefer if Mr. Kellner or his television were more cooperative with you? As we know, he is his son-in-law, what a coincidence, the owner of a company that is talking about buying the works of our Slovenian Railways company. Please answer questions that are of interest not only to me, but perhaps even to the public. You need to know that whenever it comes to secret meetings, curiosity and imagination are aroused, and then people think everything is alive. The best thing to do is to pursue all of this and tell us if this meeting happened and what you were talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u27	Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u28	Look, portal records that don't have any ads that operate on the basis of money, not Hungarian money, but money of unknown origin, I don't read or comment. That's one. I agree with you that independent public media are very important for democracy in every country. But in what you were saying, I don't know if you mentioned any. If the press agency is a public medium, maybe, but otherwise you were talking about private media. All central newspapers or all journals in Slovenia are privately owned, POP TV is privately owned. These are not public media. So I don't know what you're talking about. As far as S.H.I.E.L.D. is concerned. The government doesn't interfere with the S.H.I.E.L.D. The only thing this government and coalition has done is propose one missing member to the supervisory board because he was gone. The contract for which the government of the Communications Office wants to be fulfilled was signed during the previous government last year. It wasn't signed by this government. The point is that everyone who has signed a treaty has fulfilled their obligations. The treaty that this government will sign forward will be clear about what the law requires. In a contract that was signed last year, however, we are very difficult to interfere with. It is the responsibility of the Government to implement it, and it is also the responsibility of the Slovenian Press Agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Comrade Masha Kociper, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u30	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that we hold a broader debate on this subject, which is often discussed by the Committee on Culture, in which all Members may be present, and I hope that the President of the Government too. As regards your question, which are the public media, I have talked in particular about the importance of media reporting in the public interest. The public media I spoke about are RTV Slovenia and STA. At least that's how I understand it. It's not like we're hunting here right now, who said anything. It is that even the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, Mrs Dunja Mijatović, addressed you with a special letter, where she asked you, or in a diplomatic language, to ask you to immediately repeal the decision concerning the Slovenian Press Agency. And what's even more worrying, she wrote that this event with the Slovenian Press Agency is only one of the incidents that she's been warned about in recent months that suggest a deterioration of the media environment in Slovenia in recent months. I think we should sit down once and honestly talk about how we imagine our media environment. I fully agree with you that it must be in the interest of the entire policy – left, right, bottom, that the media report impartially and in the public interest. But the devil with impartiality is that it's a subjective concept that everyone sees in their own way. And only experts and some professional public can then judge what is impartial. I hope that people will not misinterpret the fact that you didn't want to answer me why you met with Mr. Peter Kellner. I understand that as Prime Minister, you are meeting with important people. He is the richest Czech, one of the 100 richest Earthlings and so on. However, there is also someone who controls the Czech media market, who is close to the President of the Czech Government and the Czech President and is known for his extremely conservative agenda. You may not have talked about it, but unfortunately we'll never know. Since your Members will probably not confirm this general debate, we will never be able to discuss where you and your government want the development of the media in our country and what you understand under media pluralism, because obviously our view of what we understand under this concept is completely different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 December, in the framework of the votes. Next question will be asked by Joseph Horvat, NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear President of the Government, with my questions I will touch on key content for today and for our future together. Mr President, last week you endorsed, among other things, a compromise proposal for an instrument protecting European funds, a common European budget and a Fund for Recovery and Resistance through the rule of law. The President of the European Council, Mr Charles Michel, wrote: "Now we can start implementing and restoring our economies." Having understood New Slovenia, this is a key message and a key achievement for the European Union and Slovenia. The negotiations and the search for compromise put Slovenia back on the map of Europe and Slovenia has given us the specific weight in the institution of the European Union that we deserve. Mr President, I have two questions for you. First: What will be the key activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to recover the Slovenian economy after the covid-19 epidemic in the area of a comprehensive improvement of the business environment, which will be more attractive for domestic and foreign investors, b, in the field of tax policy, c, in the area of the elimination of bureaucratic barriers? And the second question, Mr President: What measures will be taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which you run, to modernise the public health system, which will provide all citizens, I stress, all citizens, with access to public health.? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u33	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u34	Thank you very much for the substantive question. Thank you also to those few members of the opposition who are interested in this topic, because most of them have left the hall as soon as something is put in the real world. In fact, we have a challenging time ahead of us to deal with the last third of the epidemic, and then one long time to deal with the consequences. The deal you're talking about is something that really strengthens that light at the end of the tunnel. Without this agreement, without these nearly two thousand billion for recovery after the epidemic and for the development of the European economy, we would probably not have a complete seventh anti-coron package on this scale, because there would simply be no resources for this, there would be no resources, nor could we continue to draw up a national recovery plan, which we already have in the draft, but would simply not be able to complete and accept if it were not. To make it easier to imagine what this would mean for the coming years, imagine in 2009, 2010 and 2011 after the economic and financial crisis that actually affected Slovenia the most. We had the longest recession in Europe, with the exception of Greece. Still, some boast about that time. At that time, expenditure from public cash registers had to be cut by 10%. It is still the word ZUJF, which means restrictions, deprivation of certain social rights, and the consequences without this agreement for the Slovenian economy as well as the European economy, the economy of society, the countries would be something similar only if they lasted longer than the average in Europe. I believe that a thousand 800 billion for an average citizen does not mean some number that can be imagined, but in some relative comparison of the ten billion that belong to Slovenia and about the same high national annual budget, but we can already imagine what that means. Especially if we know that most of the budget is intended for regular activity, for the commitments that are predetermined, and that the investment part is small and that if we cut it down, we will not talk about it now. The fact is that a very important agreement has been reached, that, in light of or in the shadow of this agreement, there has also been an indicative agreement on climate objectives, that Europe will become carbon neutral by 2050 and that we will reduce emissions by 55% by 2030. Why is this framework agreement, which was relevant in this regard, important for our future? Because these objectives are indicative because we are not all European countries in the same position as regards the achievement of these objectives. If we did not achieve national specifications here, then some European countries would progress towards these goals and others would deteriorate dramatically. Slovenia has about a third of our territory in the framework of Nature 2000 and within Nature 2000 the conditions for exploiting natural resources and everything else are substantially limited. We have fought very hard to see some exceptions come along and that this framework agreement is now acceptable to countries that have no wind, no gas and no oil. As far as priority is concerned. Health care is definitely one of those priorities. Under these funds, Slovenia will be able to cover not only the consequences of the epidemic but also the neglect of the sector over the past decades through smart investment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvath, you have the floor to request a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Government, for your answers. In its supplementary reply, I would touch on how to make Slovenia even more attractive to domestic and foreign investors. Now we all know that on Friday the rating agency Standard & Poor's confirmed the rating of the Republic of Slovenia at AA-, a stable outlook. For Slovenia, this is a recognizable recognition that despite the tightening of the situation due to covid-19, the country remains stable in the long term. The Agency welcomes the Government's anti-korona measures, which they believe will prevent long-term negative effects on the economy. We can say that in the course of this year virtually all credit rating agencies have maintained the credit rating of the Republic of Slovenia unchanged. Moody's credit rating even increased in early October. Slovenia thus remains a trustworthy country for foreign investors, but we certainly have a lot of reserves here. I'm sure we agree on that, Mr. President, but the question is: What are those reserves that the Government will continue to address to further increase this trust for investors, domestic and foreign investors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u38	Thank you very much. After coalition coordination about two weeks ago, the government confirmed the timetable for the implementation of the Coalition Treaty. Within this timeline, there are also now deadlines for the preparation of all these acts, which you mention, both to improve the business environment in Slovenia for investment and for, I will say, an important step towards improving this environment for debirocraticisation. As far as the tax area is concerned, the Group has until the end of October to prepare solutions. So that these solutions on your benches will be adopted before summer and hopefully also because tax changes take some time and preparation so that they can be implemented as of 1 January 2022. The Strategic Council of the Government for Debarcation has drawn up a comprehensive package of proposals to simplify procedures, in short for debarcation. The first package, where changes that do not require drastic intervention in public finances, the budget and so on will be on your benches in a short time. The changes requiring the reallocation of resources requiring any changes in budgetary planning will be proposed at the same time as the possible budget rebalancing of autumn next year. Those who have attended the presentation, but I think that this presentation is available to all parliamentary groups, this first proposal from the Debarcation Council, you know how extensive the package is, and in fact, from the point of view of foreign investors, this is crucial. A foreign investor wants to invest where things are predictable, where they are not only beneficial, but also predictable. That they are not just some one - time loops with some reliefs that someone receives, but they do not know whether it will be next year and then next year. From this point of view, it is also important that we accept these amendments with the greatest possible agreement, so that there is a greater legitimacy behind this, that investors do not fear when the new mandate comes, but that the new government will go back, there will be another debate on nationalisation instead of de-de-irocratisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We are coming to the questions of Members and Members. Aljaž Kovacič will ask the question of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u40	Thank you for your words, President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In my parliamentary question, I will not talk about the fact that schools and kindergartens have been closed for almost two months, nor will I say that we have convened an urgent meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth in LMŠ in April because we have asked you to prepare for the second wave and to ensure equal education for all. I will not even say how many questions and initiatives we have addressed to you on this subject. Even how many different expert groups have come to your attention and alerted you to what is going on. I'm not even going to talk about teachers, professors, and even parents with special needs, who advertise daily, what kind of hardships their children face, how their children go back. I will also not talk about an international physical competition attended by five students with two observers, but Slovenia is the only country that has been prevented from competing. Not to mention that more than 3,000 children are still without computers. Thus, the same conditions for all pupils are still not ensured. The differences are getting bigger. I will not even talk about the fact that the Constitutional Court has told you that you do not know, if I so express yourself, to write a decree that would withstand the constitution and particularly touch on children with special needs in their explanation, because they have written down, if I understand that when they deal with the substantive issue, it would make sense to look at what would cause these children greater consequences, whether it is an epidemiological picture or a health crisis that we currently have in Slovenia, or whether they will be more affected by the fact that schools have been closed for almost two months now, that they do not think they have physical therapy. On 16 November, at the last meeting we had, I asked you a question about children with special needs. That's why I'm interested today, Minister, in just one matter, in only one question, and I ask you to answer only this: As Minister responsible for education, science and sport, what have you done for children with special needs in the last month?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Can I have some quiet in the corner, please? Comrade Kep, please be quiet. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Member Kovacic! With primary schools or principals of primary schools with special needs, institutions, as with other primary schools, secondary schools, we are literally in constant daily contact with universities because we are monitoring, on the one hand, the ongoing implementation of the education process at a distance and, on the other hand, we are also opening up, addressing open issues and somehow jointly assessing the situation or situation in a broader sense, not only the educational system, but especially, as you know, the health system in our department. This is, I believe that we all know now, together, the key reason and the key right that we must respect in our system right now, this is to ensure the exercise of the right to health even in the case of risk groups of individuals and individuals in our sector, both students, students and teachers, even ensuring the right to life. We then adapt these two fundamental rights to the following right, which is certainly the right to education, or as stated in Article 57 of our Constitution in paragraph 3, to create the possibility that citizens can receive adequate education. In the current state of health, both by the medical profession and by the various kinds of teaching professions, with which we are said to be in constant contact, this right or option can be created by the state through distance education. Unfortunately, current data on the state of infection, the state of employment of hospital beds have not changed so much as to allow us to start thinking about the safe return of children back to school in this sense. As soon as that happens, bringing children back to school is the first priority not only of our ministry, but of the whole government and the whole country. We are aware that distance education is not adequately comparable at this time to conventional education in schools, but we also need to be aware of the fact that this is the most secure form of education for all, including especially for children with special needs. We are constantly reminded of this by the medical profession, which we are reminded of, as we say, by the principals and the profession in this field. The risk of children being allowed back into the education system in a physical sense in the current situation is absolute and still too high for their health. And that's what we're following. This is what we have also always attached to all the decrees and the extension of the decrees in our department, and they are also evidence of the expertise that we attached to the reply to the Constitutional Court yesterday at the government's written meeting, as well as to the Minister herself. As far as your questions are concerned, what are we still doing? Certainly through the Institute of Education, which is that central professional body, we cooperate and help with the necessary guidelines, recommendations that these schools receive and, of course, we are also in full individual contact with the representatives of these institutions. Just as they are through a network or a system of distance education in individual contacts with parents and with the children you are asking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovacic, you have a word to complete the answer or a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u44	Thank you, once again, for your word, President. Minister, I didn't ask you on purpose about the epidemiological painting, because I didn't want you to answer that question. I asked you what you've done in the last month to make children with special needs for the better. I couldn't agree more with you saying that the priority of you and this government is children. The priority of schoolchildren is in Germany, where schools will be closed for the last time, because they said it was a priority, and also the first thing they will open up is educational institutions. But you've done things a little differently. You obviously don't care that Slovenian children can read and write. But it's important that they have nice haircuts and that they'll drive in clean cars if I look after what you're up to. So now I'm going to ask you a different question than I asked you in the first question: How many children today who have special needs are better than they were a month ago when I asked you a similar question? I will not judge the epidemiological situation, but if you decide to shut something down, to confess something, especially what the Constitution says, that it is mandatory, you must provide at least an appropriate way of teaching. But with regard to children with special needs, in my opinion and in the opinion of the List of Marjan Šarca, you have completely failed. So please tell me: What have you done in the last month that one child with special needs is at least 1% better than it was a month ago, because I think it's worse?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Once again, we are ensuring the progress of distance education, because this is the right way and the safest way to do it. If you don't believe me, I will read to you the latest report of the expert consultation group, which was prepared on the basis of the professional opinion of various pediatricians from different professions, and especially neurologists, because it is mostly a lot of children with these diseases., their opinion says this: Opening schools for children with special needs should be individual when it is safe, depending on the diagnosis of children with special needs in individual schools – whether it is schools where children are in the institution, and also individually, regarding the expectations of children and parents. Appropriate preparation of schools for admission is essential, which will be able to do everything possible to prevent the virus from incurring and to immediately reverse the outbreak if it occurs. Then they say: "Since children with special needs do not go to school, at the same time they do not receive the rehabilitation that is urgently needed, and this is a huge deficit in these children. However, there is a high probability that infections with SARS-COV-2 will occur in children who are in institutions at the time of schooling. Hospitalisation of children with special needs can make their condition so much worse, and the capacities of adequately trained paediatric departments are very small and the hospitalisation of several children with special needs could seriously endanger the quality of their treatment.” In addition, the opinions of the directors of the institutions or these primary schools with special needs, which assess that, in the given circumstances, distance education after an individual approach is the best way to provide these children at this time. At the same time, I also point out that these children who normally drive to primary schools are either through public transport or through other forms of organised transport, and that this is again in difficult circumstances and under NIJS conditions at this time also impossible to perform. At the same time, I just want to take you through one more thing. How important this group is to us, how much we care about this group, also tells us that we have already adopted, as usual, 2021 guidelines for the preparation of work and funding for these basic schools and institutions and that we will be dealing with the very expected law for children with emotional and behavioural problems in the educational process tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovacic, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u48	Thank you, for the last time, for the president's word. Look, Minister, I've had many conversations with the parents of children with special needs. These are actually classes where four students or five students are possible. So what happens now? They receive instructions, and the parent observes his child, whom this teacher gives him the task he needs to do. But the parent in his own child doesn't know the limit he has to insist on wiping his hand with a pencil because his child is an autistic. So there is a special teacher to assess where this child will go so that the child will not receive such or other attacks. And that, Madam Secretary, is no joke. My parents are having such a crisis that I can't say it here. I don't think there's any MP here who these parents wouldn't have turned to. That distance learning is the best thing that can happen in these situations, I cannot agree with it at all. These are so small classes that one teacher could actually sit with them individually for an hour or two and it would be much better. These children are actually staggered if they don't go back, and their parents are in a lot of trouble. Mr President, I think this is certainly a topic that the National Assembly should discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 December, in the framework of the votes. The following question will be asked by Master Meira Hot, Minister of the Environment and the Master's Office of Andrej Visiak and Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister! Last week in Slovenia we again experienced an emergency in the form of an extraordinary amount of precipitation, which caused enormous damage to the local population and the local community. The house flooded, the roads non-transportable, which meant that a lot of people couldn't get to their own home. The worst floods hit Strujan and the valley of Dragonje again, which is actually happening almost every year. We even witnessed the earth’s beach, so that human life was directly threatened on Markovac and the inhabitants had to be evacuated. When the situation calmed down a little, we witnessed a catastrophic current. The result of a number of different factors is undoubtedly given. But the undeniable fact is that the phenomenon of the flood, which we have witnessed in Slovenia almost every year, is no longer the result of centuries of water, as stated, but is in fact a new reality, which is undoubtedly also the result of climate change. On the other hand, the fact that the water canals in Slovenia are in fact extremely poorly cleaned is an extremely difficult problem, which prevents the water from leaking as it should or is not flow. A number of years local communities call on the concessionaire to regularly and consistently clean river canals and streams, but this year is not enough. The local population thus warns that in Slovenia rivers and streams are not maintained to the extent necessary. There are also further questions why the country has not yet drawn up a hydrological plan for the Dragonje Valley, which it should have done years ago. It also raises the question of what is the strengthening or overcrowding project at the Dragonje outflow section, which is also intended to provide additional flood safety in the profession's view. The local population also points out that it is imperative to restore road infrastructure and to arrange banks or dry restraints to ensure better road transport, but not to the extent that the main roads are flooded so that they are virtually non-transportable. The country should approach the local community and Slovenia to help and prepare a comprehensive flood plan, mainly in terms of climate change and new reality, and provide the necessary resources to build the necessary flood protections, thereby adapting and protecting the local population in the long term against severe floods and resulting damage to property and human life. That is why, Madam Minister, I ask you the following questions: What will you do to ensure that Slovenian Istria is protected from floods and reptiles, as Dr. Kaifez states, as a result of climate change and will need to be adapted to them? Will you ensure that the concessionaire maintains and cleans the channels regularly and efficiently? Is there any possibility that the maintenance and cleaning of channels and streams would take over by a local concessionaire who would perform this public task in a practical and comprehensive manner? Who is responsible for the supervision of operators of the parts that are responsible for the maintenance and cleaning of the trunks in the area of Slovenian Istria? When will the hydrological plan for the Dragon River Valley be finalized? Is the Ministry of Infrastructure preparing a plan to repair road infrastructure and arrange banks or dry depositors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Master Andrej Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u52	Dear Member, the hydrological study for that area was prepared in August this year for the purposes of the State Spatial Plan for the Koper-Dragonja Fast Road. The study is currently in the review phase. So the answer to what you're asking when it's going to be done is that we've already done it. Following the confirmation of this hydrological study, it will also be possible to use this data for further planning of flood measures. So first, it's a professional basis and then it's a measure. In the Sečovlje area, where matters are more complex, the arrangements will be carried out in accordance with the results of a hydrological and hydraulic study specifically designed for the State Spatial Plan of Portorož Airport. With regard to the situation on the ground, this is said to be the flood threat of the settlement of Sečovlje, Portorož Airport and agricultural areas, and the flow of existing streams, one of the most comprehensive solutions is the regulation of the retention of floodwaters on the Dragonji River. Given the diversity of the affected and the problem of placement in space, agreement will also need to be found with the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Agriculture and the local communities in developing final solutions. In this area, the ILO, specifically the Water and Concessionary Directorate, is carrying out major maintenance works on coastal watercourses to establish the flow in terms of baskets and remove river deposits on Drnica, Dragonja, Strunjanska River, Jerneje Canal, Fazan River, Vinjola Creek, Rizana, in fact, on all watercourses. The extensive maintenance work carried out this year has softened the consequences of the extreme events we have witnessed in recent days. A project on the rehabilitation of high-seas embankments in Strunjanska Solinas is also being concluded, which will ensure the safety of the salts against the harmful operation of the sea. In the area of the catchment area of the Drnice river in the municipality of Piran, a project is under way to regulate the existing water infrastructure in the Sečovlje salty area and on the watercourses upstream of the salty. The project aims to improve flood safety. The estimated value is over EUR 20 million, resulting in already a dimension of regulation. The project started this year and will be completed in 2024. So, Your Honor, there's a lot of work to be done to regulate this situation in the area that you're wondering about. Finally, there's an answer about the concessionaire. Tenders have been published regarding the concessionaire. The tender shall be awarded to the person who fulfils the conditions and who has made the most favourable offer in the implementation of these works.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Vrtovec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. The hydrological plan for the Dragonje River Valley and the regulation of river streams and streams in the Slovenian Istria area is not under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Otherwise, as part of the preparation of the State Spatial Plan for the Koper-Dragon Road, let me tell you that a hydrological-hydraulic study in accordance with all the regional regulations will also be developed during the design phase of the DN proposal. On the basis of the results of this study, guidance will also be provided for the further planning of appropriate quick road solutions to be taken into account in the design. But that doesn't exactly concern your questions. I think that Minister Vizjak has already answered you enough, because the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure or the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia, Darsa and so on are state roads, fast roads, main roads, regional roads and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u55	Thank you very much. My colleague Meira Hot, you have a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, of course, I am pleased that so much has been invested and that you are proactively engaged in this issue. But the fact is, every year these floods are given the reality of the local population and it doesn't really feel like you're doing that proactively. My opinion is that it would be imperative to meet with all four Istrian mayors and adopt a proactive plan that will adapt to the new situation. We are talking about climate change and we are talking about that, I don't know, in Piran in 20 years, the sea can be one meter higher and so on. Things need to be adapted to the new reality. Sir, I know you're not responsible for hydrological studies, so I specifically asked: Are you preparing a plan for repairing road infrastructure and arranging banks or dry restraints? I would like to ask for an answer to this question, because the local population has been pointing this out for many years and, if I am not mistaken, the main road towards the border crossing of Sečovlje is owned by the country, managed by the state, is not a local road, but is a main road. In addition, I would like to ask for an answer: Will you also meet with the local mayors and adopt some long-term plan to address this flood problem and may there be a possibility that the country will also join in the context of any flood compensation that has now taken place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u58	In the floods that have affected the coast in the past days, the areas of Strunjana and Sečovlje were most affected in the Piran municipality. The floods involved a combination of three events, namely high tides, the flow of backwaters and meteoric sewerage. All of this caused what we witnessed. It is therefore estimated that the remaining three phases of anti-floating arrangements already defined should be continued in the Strunjan area in cooperation with local communities. The area of the Municipality of Koper, which is largely threatened by the flooding of Badaševice, was affected by the flooding in the area of Shalare. As the most appropriate solution in this area is also indicated by the technical solution of the regime of the Dry Restraint Pradisiol. Dearly beloved, it is true, we have plans, we have solutions. It is true that this work is necessary, as I have already mentioned, because it is a complex solution, to be negotiated with the local community. However, as regards the reimbursement of costs due to natural disasters, the Ministry is systematically doing so. The municipalities shall reimburse them in accordance with the legislation when a certain proportion is exceeded, and this is our current task. We pay millions in Slovenia for these purposes every year. If there is damage to infrastructure in this case, we will, of course, arrange it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Minister Rotovec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u60	The Ministry of Infrastructure where roads are damaged, and these are state roads or state-owned roads, is restoring and repairing them. If now, as a result of the last flood, there is a problem there, I am not currently aware of the problem, but I can promise you that if there is a problem, we will fix the road there. Nobody likes to drive and owns a road that's damaged. But we know that this is a problem in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Simoni Kustec a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u62	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister! 9. 12. I have addressed to the Government the initiative in which I appeal to the Government to prepare as soon as possible a way to open educational institutions and institutions where children with special needs are educated. I think we all agree and understand that this is one of the key areas in this country, in fact, in all countries, and also the practice from abroad shows that schools have closed last as soon as possible in this epidemic and that they are also opening first when possible. A few days later, on Friday, in an interview with Mladina, Dr. Bojana Beović said about the opening of schools: “Just because as a society we really should not allow ourselves to open up to schools” – talks about why she is trying to open the first triad – “but also for a very practical reason that people cannot go to work if they have to look after their children at home.” [[…]] [[…]] Once again, I would like to stress that all of this comes into play only with at least a minimal improvement in the current situation. This is clear, of course, and it is also clear that all the data we have shows that this epidemiological situation has not improved. But still two days later, 13. 12. The government has decided to open hair salons, beauty salons, pedicures, flower shops, car washes, in some municipalities even stores with clothes and footwear, autosalons and so on. It is clear here that, in essence, the government as a collective body has dropped under pressure from the Chamber of Commerce and other chambers and that this in essence threatens to continue the education of children in ordinary schools and schools for children with special needs. Even in line with some of the views of epidemiologists, such openings can mean further viral expansion and additional exacerbation, which will then mean that we will not open schools for a while and that we will probably be longer in such a lockdown than we are now. Schools have been closed for almost two months now, and especially for children with special needs, even the Constitutional Court has written that this can have irreparable consequences for them. I am primarily interested in a more general question: Does the Ministry of Education have a strategy to open schools as soon as possible, or is it also working to ensure adequate human resources completion in schools for which educational institutions have been asked for more than half a year? Second question: How can activities such as trade, cosmetics and similar services be opened at this time and schools remain closed, in particular [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u64	Thank you very much, President. Mr Tašner Vatovec, in fact, I very much agree with you. The priority of bringing children back to school is that crucial task of this country and this government. However, as it is said, when a medical epidemiological expert assessment is given above all, it is safe to do so. You're asking me about these differences, why some kind of partial return on some activity is, somewhere isn't. See, where services are concerned, it is primarily a conscious responsibility and taking responsibility for whether or not you will actually perform this service and for what can happen to you as a result. When we bring the children back to school, as well as the employees in as large a number as our school system represents, this responsibility of returning is also actually on the side of the country. This means that only when we have the green light, that it is safe to protect their health, even the lives of these most endangered groups, which are certainly children with special needs, will we be able to carry out this return gradually and safely. You're asking me if we have any scenarios ready for this. We are. All the time, in fact, since spring after that first experience, we have been preparing ways together with NIJZ, along with the rest of the profession, for children with special needs also with this additional expertise and, of course, with the pedagogical expertise, how these re-entry processes and then the educational process themselves should take place. Just as we have done scenarios and guidelines for the implementation of distance education, the most optimal, what we are doing right now. The opening strategy itself is clear. The government confirmed it 14 days ago. As soon as we exceed that level, the number of daily infections and hospitalizations, the priority is to return to school with special needs and children who are educated in the first triad and then on. How are we going to complete human resources? One of the PKPs, in fact, two of them have also given us this human resources improvement or I will say additional assistance, but I am particularly sorry to point out here that, in the field of education of children with special needs, these human resources are extremely limited. More or less, there is an assessment that most of these teachers, who are adequately trained for the education of these children, are in fact already in the active labour market. So here we also have very limited additional human resources, as far as this is concerned. Since there have already been quite a few points raised in your related question regarding these additional features of distance education and what we are doing at that time, I have obtained some more data here, so you will see what point we are now at with regard to the return of children with special needs. At our ministry, we sent a questionnaire some ten days ago to the principals of primary schools with special needs as well as institutions and then obtained the following information. The first question was what would actually be the student rate if we reopened these schools. The data sent back to us by the principals or management staff says: For health reasons, about 10% of the students would be absent. We would like to point out that after experience, students with health restrictions are also returning to school, which increases the risk of a disease occurring in the event of a possible infection. Because of the lack of public transport, almost half of all pupils in some schools would be involved. There was a very similar assessment of the presence of employees. According to the data collected, children up to the fifth grade would average between 15% and 20% of employees, which is a major organisational obstacle for schools in general in terms of respect for all other measures. Perhaps later on, if you are interested in this and some other responses.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Comrade Vatovec, you have your word for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u66	Yes, because we can probably agree that this is not the time — we know what the numbers are — to open now. But my claim is that we shouldn't open anything. That is why I am surprised by what the government adopted yesterday, and therefore it is also essentially surprising that the epidemic continues. Minister Gantar claimed a few days ago that for two weeks the current situation still needs to be further preserved, it is said, lockdown that we can then somehow get out of this situation. But by opening up certain activities now, from hairdressers' salons, shops and so forth, at the time of New Year’s holidays, we can be concerned that this will cause not fewer infections, but, in fact, its increase, which will then, in some medium time, lead to the fact that children will not be in school for some time, both with special needs and other school-bound children. My main concern is that the government has ever made such a decision. What was the point of view of the Ministry of Education, given that we are one of the countries that has closed schools among the first, and that our children are now almost two months in a distance lesson that has its limitations, can also have some negative consequences for the entire generation of children who are studying in this way? So I am particularly concerned about this dilemma, why open up certain activities and thereby jeopardize the early return of children to school. This is a key issue that should essentially be a matter of priority for the Ministry of Education, which should also actively advocate the establishment of a state of all conditions so that school-bound children can return to school as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u68	What you have highlighted is always my first vote when I speak on behalf of the Ministry of Education, the Government regarding return and these safeguards. We understand them, and we certainly understand that we represent one very large segment of Slovenian society and that because the virus is actually the one that circulates among people, that we are also among the most exposed, either as carriers or as those who are infected. We also understand that this target group is not the primary target group that has problems with the infections themselves and with the high level of the complications involved, and we understand that we must also approach and have this understanding in this solidarity aspect. Fortunately, we are among the truly best-prepared European countries with regard to distance education, and in this way we can in this most difficult time in some way take the educational process itself to this account. However, we expect all other activities to have the same relationship. If certain rules apply to us, so should all others. As we can see, given what the data on infections are despite restrictive measures, we have not followed and have not achieved this in order to reduce the rate of infection. We can confidently ensure that schools, kindergartens, universities are not the reason that we are one of the few who adhere to this. Unfortunately you are right, we are paying too high a price for all those who do not adhere to these safeguards, including this situation that we were able to observe yesterday at ski resorts in Kranjska Gora, and many other things that we can observe daily in open shops. From this point of view, I really appeal and point out again, if everyone responds more responsibly and with greater awareness to these safeguards together, then believe that we may be able to go back even faster in schools and kindergartens. I think it would be good if we didn't forget this as a society and realize it. I am certainly the first one to want children to return to schools and kindergartens as soon as possible, since this is their primary place for education and education.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Andrej Reich, who will question the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Anzet Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Ange Logar! The Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia sets out foreign policy guidelines, including regulated relations with neighbouring countries. These are based on mutual trust, respect, good cooperation in the economic field and many others. This is why relations with neighbouring countries in the foreign policy declaration are defined as Slovenia's primary foreign policy priority. More specifically, the declaration emphasises that we are building relations with our neighbours on the search for mutually acceptable solutions. We cannot ignore the fact that in a relatively short period of time you have managed to establish contacts with many of the top foreign representatives of neighbouring and even more remote countries, which can also be considered a major success. Dear Minister, I'm interested in: What foreign policy or specific activities are currently being implemented in neighbouring countries and how do you apply the national interests of the Republic of Slovenia? What have you done specifically during this time of your mandate for Slovenia since you have been in this position? Who felt these results of your work - representatives of minorities perhaps? I am asking all of this in the light of the latest event on the Adriatic, because Italy and Croatia have announced that they will declare the economic zone exclusively. Prime Minister Janez Janša has therefore already announced a meeting with both government presidents, which is expected to take place at the end of this week. At that time, we were also surprised to learn from the Government that secret negotiations with Hungary on the entry into the second track project are under way. This secrecy, calmness would not surprise us if, on the other hand, the Prime Minister did not publicly and uninvited himself into counting votes in the United States, where he even proved to be congratulating the wrong candidate. Thus, we see that the government, on the one hand, is not silent and publicly aware of the situation when neighbours are interfering with our territory and with matters relating to our infrastructure. You therefore base one on the silent diplomacy and the promotion of our vital interests, while our top representatives of the country are in an inappropriate manner commenting on matters that are none of our concern. That's why I'm asking you, Your Honor, how does the government defend our interests against our neighbours? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr. Logar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u72	Thank you, President. Thank you, Ambassador Reich, for that question. As far as relations with neighbours are concerned, as you rightly said, this is one of the priorities and strategic orientations in a narrower concentration circle, as defined in the foreign policy strategy. Therefore, if you remember correctly, it was my first task to assume the role of Minister for Foreign Affairs to restore cities to a relaxed relationship with neighbouring countries and, therefore, on the first day of the ministerial function, I immediately spoke to fellow ministers of neighbouring countries. At that time, I am pleased to confirm that we have managed to establish very good neighbourly relations with all our neighbours. We have been able to restore dialogue at the highest level with Croatia, we have had two ministerial meetings and we are also in regular contact with Croatian diplomacy. Many contacts have also been made with other neighbouring countries. I had two meetings with the Foreign Minister of Austria, I had two meetings with the Foreign Minister of Hungary and I had four meetings with the Foreign Minister of Italy. In this context, we also had a regular dialogue with Austria and Hungary through the establishment of the informal Central 5 Group. Finally, with the great support of the President of the Republic, Mr Pahor, at least two minorities are experiencing significant progress in neighbourly relations. As you know, she was 13. Seven. 2020 in Trieste to commemorate the burning of the National House in Trieste, where the National House passed into the hands of the Slovenian minority. This was completely unimaginable a decade ago, and today this beautiful building gets a new owner, and all the procedures necessary to do so are carried out in accordance with the timeline adopted by 13. Seven. 2020. The material situation has also improved and we are also working for the regulatory, Slovenian communities in Austria. There are also 10 in this regard. Ten. 2020 was 100 years from the plebiscite of Korea, and this was one round anniversary, which we also used for very intensive talks with Austrian diplomacy, thus achieving that subsidies for the Slovenian minority increased by 100%, while at the same time new Austrian coalitions are listed in the coalition contract some activities that will improve the situation for representatives of the Slovenian minority. We agree with the Austrian Minister for Foreign Affairs for a regular dialogue, where we are monitoring progress under these provisions, so that everything will be supported in a timely and appropriate manner for the benefit of the Slovenian minority. As far as the other questions are concerned, I thank you for noticing the activities of the Foreign Ministry and for considering this to be a great success. But I must say that I categorically deny your claim that anything would happen outside the eyes of the National Assembly. As you know, I have already announced that, following Saturday's meeting of the external ministers of the three countries, Italy, Croatia and Slovenia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also prepare material for the closed meeting of the PSC, where we will present in detail all developments concerning the exclusive economic zone. You said earlier that Prime Minister Janša had announced a meeting of government presidents, this was probably a lapsus linguae, this will be an external ministers' meeting. However, as regards the issue of negotiations with Hungary on the second track, I think there was also a PSC meeting where the Minister of Infrastructure presented in detail a memorandum which I think was supported by the Foreign Policy Committee. Maybe I'll come back with a question. You said the government was silent when they interfered with our territory. If you can be more specific, where the neighbours are interfering in our territory so that I can respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mag. Raj, you have the floor for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u74	Thank you very much. If relations with neighbours are really as good as a well-respected foreign minister, then declaring the economic zone would not be a surprise, but would be done in agreement. Given that obviously the neighbours of the Croats do not recognise the arbitral rulings and in fact report that we have not been included in these talks in some way, because we have nothing to look for there, I repeat that these relations are obviously not as good, and that this is the mandate of Prime Minister Plenkovic to represent him in Brussels, that is to say, at the summit in Brussels, only one performance for the public. We must be aware that Hungary is well known for its strong advocacy and exercise of its interests with various grants, donations, investment in sports and cultural infrastructure in Slovenia, and not unknown developments in neighbouring Croatia, because Croatia has very poor experience in entering the Hungarian Mole into Croatia Ino. There was a secret going on there, too. The then Prime Minister is now even in prison. I would like to point out that there are many questions that are generated in this way. Since investments are not made on the basis of reproducibility, I would like to know: How do we apply Slovenia's strategic interest to its neighbours?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u76	Thank you, President. Investments are a matter of free market. And the free market is never implemented in accordance with the principle of reciprocity. It is therefore difficult, however, to challenge the free movement of capital in this regard, unless you are defending restrictions on the free movement of capital in the European Union, based on four or now five freedoms, which would constitute a breach of the European regime. Moreover, investing in other countries in Slovenia can encourage Slovenia to invest more actively in other countries. I will be happy if the National Assembly calls for Slovenia to invest rapidly. Among other things, we have legislation on investment policy that prohibits subsidies to companies investing in other countries. If you change that, I believe that the Minister of Economy will be very happy and this will also help the Slovenian economy. As far as the declaration of the exclusive economic zone is concerned, it has been adopted in agreement. Now I must demant you, the exclusive economic zone can never be accepted in agreement, because it is convened and accepted only by that country which is the beneficiary of the declaration. In this case, it is a question of the high seas in part of point T50. I can only find that many who comment on the current developments concerning the exclusive economic zone do not even know what part of the Adriatic Sea it is. I have said many times that this is a matter of strategic interest of the Republic of Slovenia, so it is important for us to be involved in these discussions – and we are involved in these discussions, and we are involved in these discussions in the right stage, not too late. Let me just remind my colleagues that, in relation to this exclusive economic zone, more or less has already been announced in the three articles of the arbitration judgment that the two countries will declare such a zone. In short, Slovenia's accession to the trialogue with the two countries that will do so is mainly about how Slovenian diplomacy is proactive, how it has been informed in a timely manner and how it will participate in these talks. As for other things, as I said, I see the meeting or meeting of the PSC on the subject of the exclusive economic zone as a very important act of unifying Slovenian policy in this strategic interest. Before this meeting, I will not comment more specifically on this case. However, we will present this in more detail at the PSC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mag. Raj, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u78	I am making a procedural proposal to hold an in-depth debate in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on my issue. There are many questions, and we also need many appropriate answers. Let me explain that no one in Slovenia is restricting anyone's freedom of initiative. However, the question is whether a foreign country is involved. If treaties with a foreign country are concluded in Slovenia and in some way sovereignty in whatever sense of the word is waived, then it would make sense that, through the same reciprocity, comparable investment is provided to Slovenia abroad, either in Hungary or in Austria or in any other country which in this way exercises its interests with us. Given that Hungary is known to exercise its interests very strongly today, Croats are still suing international courts on the fate of Croatia Ine, I believe that this debate that I want us to carry out is still very important and necessary in order to safeguard our national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 December, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Matey Udovč, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Anžet Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u80	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Minister! In Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia currently has two representative offices, the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Zagreb and the Consulate General of the Republic of Slovenia in Split. There is information in the public that the Republic of Slovenia is planning to open another consular office in neighbouring Croatia in the river. Above all, these rumors are more common before and during the tourist season, when migrations of Slovenian tourists to the Croatian coast, especially in Istria, Kvarner and northern Dalmatia, are more pronounced. I have also seen such statements and reflections in informal discussions with representatives of both countries. In this part of Croatia lives, works and educates several thousand Slovenes and Slovenes, on the river is the seat of the Union of Slovenian Associations in Croatia. The Slovenian kindergarten was opened and the Slovenian language is also taught in primary schools. On the other hand, there is the fact that Slovenians in this part of the Croatian coast are the most numerous visitors in the summer tourist season. But this isn't just about seasonal tourists. In the area of Istria, Kvarner and northern Dalmatia, more than 100,000 Slovenes have their properties in the form of holiday houses and apartment houses which they visit and use throughout the year. There is also increasing cooperation between Slovenia and the Croatian region in the field of economy, culture, education and other areas. Thus, from year to year, the needs and calls for the opening of our country's official representation in this part of Croatia are increasing. Such thinking seems quite appropriate to me, and their realization would be very welcome and would benefit hundreds of thousands of Slovenes and Slovenians who visit this part of Croatia every year. Finally, to those Slovenes and Slovenes who have permanent residence there. Therefore, on behalf of all interested parties and, of course, on my own behalf, I ask you: Does the Republic of Slovenia have a genuine desire and interest to open a new consular office in Croatia on the River? Is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs already carrying out activities to implement this plan? When can we expect the opening of a new consulate and at what stage is this project currently located? Thank you so much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u82	Thank you for your contribution, especially when you said that the realization of such a consulate was very welcome. Let me say that the Slovenian minority in this part of Croatia is the best organised in Croatia and is also the most active in the counties potentially covered by this consulate. In this area there are four primary schools offering the possibility of learning Slovenian as a compulsory choice course, and in two secondary schools it is also possible to learn Slovenian from three languages, and in October 2018 a lecture of Slovenian language was started at the University of Rijeka. After 36 accepted applications, they had to stop accepting new applications, which means that they have great potential for the future. You have already mentioned that there is also the seat of the Federation of Slovenian Associations. He moved there from Zagreb, where there is also a new President of the Union, who is also head of the Institute for Nationality Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia in the river. Slovenia has consulates open in three of the four neighbours, namely Hungary in Monoster, Austria in Celovac and Italy in Trieste. If we are looking from this strategic perspective of foreign policy, this internal key cooperation cycle, the focus cycle, it would also be useful to consider the opening of a general consulate in Croatia. Earlier you mentioned the consulate in Split, which is where we now have an honorary consul. Before the opening of this Consulate General in Split in 1995, Slovenia and Croatia agreed on reciprocity, which then anticipated the opening of the Croatian Consulate in Maribor, but this reciprocity did not occur. That is why we later turned this into an honorary consulate, so we have an honorary consul in Split. As far as the river is concerned, there are 14 countries in the river. The Italian and Serbian consulates are run by the Consulate General and the consulates of the other countries are run by the Honorary or General Honorary Consulates. Four countries have consulates in Istria, all at the level of the Honorary Consulate. The Committee on Foreign Policy in its previous composition also discussed this, which mentioned, inter alia, the relevance of the implementation or establishment of the Consulate General in the river. In the internal debate on the IHR and the government, we will also take into account the views expressed by Members in the question of the Parliament. Your arguments will also be taken into account when deciding whether to open the Consulate General of the Republic of Slovenia on the River. As I said, from a strategic point of view, this would be a meaningful whole, at the same time because of the argument you gave, because of the many Slovenians who are on vacation there and it is probably more reasonable to do consular things on the river than to make the way to Zagreb. As I said, this is the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If there is general support for the Foreign Policy Committee or the National Assembly, I believe that this decision will also be easier in the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle, Minister of Justice Mag, will ask the next question. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u84	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Have a nice hello to you all. Madam Secretary! I wish my reasons for today's question on the recent World Day of Human Rights, which we marked last Thursday, December 10th, were not so. The reason for my question is unfortunately a terrible article in the media Democracy. In view of its unacceptable and condemning valuable content, I will try to avoid the references in this article, but unfortunately I cannot avoid the text completely. I think that each of us with such a text should not be silent and should speak out loud and condemn such words. Raising fascist ideas, raising one race above another, desecrating people because of their race, negotiating the goal of eliminating certain types of harmful people and negotiating their extinction as weeds, my heart hurts because I had to read those words, all of this is horrifying, condemning the value of our democracy, our countries should not remain unpunished in 2020. That is why I ask you the following questions, Madam Minister. Your ministry is the custodian of criminal law, so I am primarily interested in: How do you feel about this article? I understand that there is no prosecution of such acts in your jurisdiction, but it is within your jurisdiction to define criminal incrimination in the Penal Code. That's why I'm asking you: Do you not feel that our legislation is ineffective in persecuting such acts? Our criminal code does not define a specific criminal offence that would independently prosecute the act of promoting, citing, objecting or otherwise spreading Nazi, fascist or other extreme ideas that affect the field of fundamental freedoms and human rights. I'm going to stop here, and I'm going to upgrade my question further.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u86	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Member, yes, I must agree with you. It is extremely difficult to read that article, and I agree with you, and I hope that he will also be persecuted so that the prosecution or the police will begin the proceedings on official duty. We can no longer verify this as information of a public nature whether this process has been initiated or not. There is too much of this hatred, impatient speech, or hate speech, so that further steps must be taken. If we look at our legislation as we have arranged, we have also defined violations of public order and peace in the Law on Offences against Public Order and Peace, of course, at the level of hostile speech, where there is a violation of the law also in the law on the provision of audio recording services, in the Penal Code, when it comes to the worst form and if all of these elements are given in the crime itself. In 2011, the Republic of Slovenia completed the Penal Code. During the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, a Council Framework Decision was adopted to combat xenophobia and racism. It is from this title that our article in the Penal Code has been supplemented, and it has also been added in case it is done through means of public information or on websites. The question is also how much for all of these content, for which we feel that citizens are hostile, that they constitute some kind of offence, is actually using the public authority of actual persecution. So how many times has the police and the prosecution actually triggered this persecution? If I look at the statistics, for 2018 there were, I speak for the Penal Code, two cases in the D.A. and there were two convictions. In 2019 only one indictment or application was issued and only one conviction. In 2020, when we feel that this is really huge, there were three. And these three were on official duty by the D.A.'s office. I've heard lately that the law can be smarter than the legislator. We have few opportunities to see how judicial practice is being developed in this area. I think that's not enough compared to how individuals feel. However, I agree with you, when you have proposed this form of crime, certain elements that are listed here already cover our criminal code and, above all, racism, xenophobia, but not, as you said, Nazi, fascist forms of encouragement, inciting and complaining. Here, let me say that, as part of the Presidency of the Council of Europe, the priority of the Ministry of Justice is to address the hate speech and the crimes committed. The European Commission has also recognised that this framework plan does not cover all these elements, and in the spring of 2021 a legislative plan at the level of the European Union is envisaged, which will regulate this singlely for the whole of Europe, and we will also hold a special conference on this subject during the Presidency. So more needs to be done, because it's really too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, I welcome and welcome your understanding of this subject and also your condemnation, but I did not speak so much about the persecution of hate speech, but I was talking about that as a separate crime we should somehow include in our criminal code the persecution of acts of encouragement, advocacy and incitement to the spread of fascist and Nazi ideas, of which the article I was talking about spoke. You mentioned the EU Council's decision, and I wanted to remind you further. The decision focuses on criminalising racist and xenophobic hate speech and essentially encourages Member States to simplify their legislation when it comes to crimes involving xenophobia and racism. My understanding is that this is a little more specific than the hate speech itself, which can be much nicer than the encouragement to fascism and Nazism. It is true that even in our constitution, article 63, which prohibits hate speech, criminal legislation follows this provision in my opinion. Our criminal code does not have a specific offence of hate speech, we have only a crime that prohibits the promotion of hatred, violence and intolerance. This crime is also placed in the chapter of crimes against public order and peace, not in the chapter against human rights and freedoms. In my view, this criminal situation reduces the importance and harmfulness of such behaviour. Once again, I ask you: Do you think you were like [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u90	Thank you. I agree with you, so one is hate speech, and the other can be other forms of crime. This is also one of the priorities within our Presidency and also the Council of Europe. In order to create all crimes committed out of hatred, including those listed by you. As the Ministry of Justice, we can go ahead and create such a crime before the European Union establishes a legal framework. However, I think it is more reasonable to wait and unite with the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u92	Thank you very much. This topic seems extremely important to me, so I propose that the National Assembly hold a general debate and I will explain why I think so. Because, under this government in our country, we are becoming all too impatient and hateful to differ, to others thinking, on the other hand, we are becoming all too tolerant of intolerance. And not only do we somehow divide citizens into our own and yours, we divide them into users and users of mobile applications. All of this, in such a way, so the perception of the rule of law, if you want, leads us into interference with human rights on the basis of some personality differences, which I think is unacceptable and unacceptable for a democratic and modern country as Slovenia wants to be. It is even more perverse to follow some differences, differences in people, based on their racial affiliation. I believe that everyone in this Chamber is aware of the strong link between the largest government party SDS and the media Democracy. And it is from this address that everyone sitting in here should talk out loud about it and say whether we really want to persecute such acts. And if we are to prosecute them seriously, I think we need to accept some changes in the Penal Code, which will clearly and loudly say that speaking, complaining to fascist and Nazi ideas is a serious crime. I therefore propose a general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 December 2020, in the framework of the votes. Tadeja Šuštar has the floor to ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! Remote learning has become a necessary measure to prevent the spread of coronavirus. It is especially difficult for children who attend kindergarten and the first triad of primary school. Children are not independent when learning from a distance, so it is essential that their parents help them. Teachers and teachers are doing their best to be confronted by various recordings and presentations. There has been a problem with the hours of literature where stories, stories, songs, and other literary works are dealt with according to the curriculum. Many teachers have found that the text they read has been recorded and transmitted to their parents or children so that they can listen to the scriptures discussed. Many of these videos are also generous among fellow workers who have very difficult access to or access to certain books at this time. Above all, they make it easier for parents and children to go to libraries for books. These teachers are now receiving warnings and penalties for infringement of copyright. SAZAS and the Society of Writers do not even allow scans of the material, as this also violates copyright. So fairy tales could only be read live by teachers through online tools, which is also not allowed to be recorded. Since young children depend on their parents for the most part on ICT technology, we cannot expect that they will always be able to participate in the full number of teaching hours online. Thus, they will be deprived of hearing and reading certain literary texts. Moreover, not all libraries are so well - founded with books that all teachers in a certain class would borrow the same books during a few weeks’ delay. In fact, most of the books used in school were rented in school libraries, which, of course, are not open in the current situation. I want to know: Does your ministry have any solution to this problem? Is there any possibility that, at the time of school’s distance, they would make an agreement with authors and publishers to publish their own recordings of material from curriculums, fairy tales, stories and others, thus allowing them to use pupils and pupils in the first triad of elementary school? I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, in fact, this question of yours in some sad way is really pointing to one of the inanimate things, if you don't just say crab, in the education system. It seems almost unbelievable and impossible that something like this is happening, and it is, of course, linked to respect for the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which we have not actually changed since 1995 with one small exceptional year in 2015. At that time, we know for ourselves that this has gone, I will say, the growth of information and communication technologies is extremely fast forward, especially in the field of education and education and at this very moment, when in fact, because of all the known conditions, we are actually taking this whole process to a distance and precisely with the help of such tools and aids, in which we are, as we say, legally strongly intertwined and regulated. At the Ministry, we are aware of the problem you have raised. I also have to say that we've been trying to get to her. Some efforts to resolve the epidemic and distance education have already been activated, but unfortunately failed. We are essentially talking about the 49th Article of this already mentioned Law on Copyright and Related Rights, when, after that amendment in 2015, the amendment extended only the first paragraph of Article 49, which from then on allows the public to freely acquire published works in the form of a direct instruction. However, this exception to the law in force is so outdated and not adapted to the current forms of teaching, which, as it is said, are now taking place in particular in digital environments and beyond traditional institutional frameworks, that it also activates or actually causes situations that you have described yourself. In 2019, the Ministry was already preparing amendments to the Act, including the transposition of the Marrakesh Convention into our legal order, but unfortunately, the proposal was not taken into account at that time, despite the unaltered fact and the awareness that this content and this issue must be addressed in particular in the present situation. In fact, the exceptions set out in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society and on the basis of the model of Estonian implementation have also been proposed to define exceptions to education and to allow in this regard exactly what you now point out, for the purposes of teaching, in fact also of book works, reproductions, distribution, then public communication, to which the act of material also belongs, and to processing. What is left for us now in this situation before we can succeed with much courage with the amendment of the law? Above all, I will say a constructive, understanding conversation and a dialogue with teachers, who will find, in some appropriate way, the way in which our youngest students can in one such successful way take on these literary works, which, unfortunately, cannot be done in any given legal framework.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will still ask the question of the Member of Parliament because I hope that the Minister will still join us. I know he's in the house, and I know if it's easy, he'll join us. Otherwise, I will ask, Madam Vice-President, to receive a reply in writing from the Minister if he does not come to answer orally. My question is touching A, here it is. [[...]] My question touches the restoration of the H4 fast road. It used to be a real saga to rebuild this highway. Later, during the period mainly of Cerar's government, including Sharchev, and today the Janšev have made key moves, so that the practically fast road H4 is now just before the final reconstruction, with some questions that I would like to turn to the Minister himself. In fact, the Minister-designate has recently completed the last part, the last phase of the restoration with an explanation that it is within a period of two kilometres, this is the area where the area near Vogršček, the Accumulation Lake, will take place in the spring part until the final renewal of this work as well. My question in the first part is, Mr. Secretary-General: How is further restoration envisaged, not so much in the Vipavska Valley, the direction of Rebrnica, because we know that it has a clear timeline, but would ask you to explain as much as I can hear the matter in the consideration of how the first part of the highway will end, in the notes, practically the last part of the motorway from the border crossing of the Turnover to exports to Šempeter, the direction of Ljubljana? So we have two kilometers of highway, this is the oldest part of the highway from the international border crossing of the Wrote to Šempeter. If you can please answer what will happen to this job. I know this may seem a partial question to some, but it is the last, final part, I will say, of the lower part of the fast road leading from Nova Gorica, if you want more precisely from the border crossing of the Spindle, to Ljubljana. When will it be scheduled to resume this part of the road, Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u100	Thank you very much, chairman. Given the situation of this vehicle in this section, Dars, I would like to stress this, has already joined the project documentation order, and the procurement process is already under way. So the first phase is a review of the projector's offers. Dars estimates that when the selection process is successfully completed and even after the project documentation is produced, public works can be launched in the autumn of 2021. And if the public order is going to go smoothly, so no specialties, no complaints and so on, then we can hope that this project will also be realized in early 2022. So the introduction to work at the beginning of 2022. Let me say that the value of the investment is estimated at almost €7 million, but this section really needs to be renovated. The section between Šempetr and Vrtojba, for example, was renovated in 2006 and towards the interior of the country in 2009. Although a smaller upgrade of the road structure with a 10-year planning period was carried out, as we say in the beginning of 2022 we can expect the beginning to be part of it. We are aware of the fact that this section is problematic or that this part between Šempetr and Vertajba needs reconstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. Allow me only three sub-questions, but in general the answer is more than satisfactory. I want to know: At the time of this renewal, is any intervention also envisaged in the area of the international border crossing, although of course it is not only within the competence of your ministry, but within the Ministry of Public Administration? I am talking about the possible removal of roofs or the regulation of infrastructure at the very small border crossing. That's the first question. The second question is: How do you see the initiative of State Councillor Tomaž Horvat, just as I do from the Gore finale, and I must say here that this is also the position of the party of the Social Democrats to limit freight traffic across the Vipava Valley, that is, through the highway, the fast road H4 and redirect it through the Fernetics, because we practically know that the fast road is not, from a safety point of view, comparable to the highway? That's the second question. And the third is, as far as noise measurement is concerned in the area, it also intersects between the border crossing of Wrote and Šempeter. There, if you go towards Ljubljana, on the right side is Laze's pawnage, which is part of the Vrtojbe. Villagers or locals are constantly complaining about the noise. Dars has already learned measurements that have exceeded the limit, but still Dars has no intention of putting a sound barrier there. That is why the Municipality of Šempeter - Vrtojba will carry out additional measurements itself with the desire to convince Dars, of course, that at work where there is a rapid road passing through a narrow settlement, as far as noise can be limited to the well-being of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u104	Thank you very much. As far as border crossing control is concerned, I do not know where the procedures are now, or whether they include this part in the renovation. But I can ask myself, and within a few days, let me answer you whether Dars is planning this part. True, I am driving towards Italy on several occasions in this part, and this section needs to be restored, the renovations need to be done on their own roofs and former border controls, this part, I agree. Let me check and let you know. As for the limitation of transit, and the cargo transit from Trench to Nova Gorica, let me say that I am in favour of this as Minister and that we are already having a discussion with Dars about this, too, what this would mean. I also believe that because of the various factors, it is much more effective to make transits against Italy across the Fernetići border crossing, it is via Sežana, not via the Vipavska Valley and then Goriška across the border. Let me say here that Darsa and I are talking about this and that we will soon make the right decision. There is also the problem of storms, which then actually endangers the safety of this transit, many times are overturned trucks and the closures of the entire fast road are created. This is a fast road, which occasionally has several trucks heading towards Italy, as a highway heading towards Italy across the Fernetics. I believe it would be wise to do so, in particular, for safety and efficiency. As for local traffic, local deliveries also for motorists, of course, must be announced if anyone wants to go to Novo Gorica from Ljubljana, he can go across the Vipavska Valley on a fast road. As far as transit is concerned, for example, if it goes to Old Gorica, let it go around. That's what I think is right. But let me make that decision next month. With regard to the anti-group fence, let me also say here that we'll check it out. This is the first time I've faced this issue. We can check, also ask the Ministry of the Environment about studies and so on what this means. I'd like to see these studies first, you've read them, and then we'll make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u106	Your Honor, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to thank the minister. Allow me to do what rarely happens. The Minister himself has also been very involved in rebuilding the road across the Ribnica, so I will allow myself to abuse this procedure to thank him and, of course, wish him well in the coming holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Every time you break the rules of procedure, this is the second time. Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u108	With effect from 1 January, minimum wages should rise to EUR 736 net and from there each year maintain a rate of at least 20% above the minimum cost of living. This amendment of the law was elected by Levica in cooperation with the government of Marjana Šarca in 2018 to help the situation of 120 000 workers. These 120 thousand workers received a raise and a further increase in the minimum wage is clearly under question. Recently, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Association of Employers have become increasingly loud, requiring the freezing of the raising of the minimum wage. Of course, the government should show them the door and stand firm on the side of the employees, who are also supplying us with emergency services and goods in the epidemic, but have not done so. Although employers under the government of Janez Janša have already received more than a billion euros of various anti-Korona subsidies and there is an apparent abundance of ministers for employers, the one minister for work, who should defend the rights of workers, has remained silent. We are not just talking here about trades and industrial workers, we are talking about many of the recipients of the minimum wage in health care as well. I'll only give you a few profiles: a lab, a lab assistant, a hospital care provider, a nurse, a social care provider, a paramedic in emergency and operational activities, a paramedic. After all, the wages should also be raised by the mid - nurses. Mr. Minister, given your silence in all the attacks on raising the minimum wage that employees in this country deserve, I am interested in: How will you define yourself when deciding whether to freeze the minimum wage in the Government, take the employer's side or take the workers' side?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member Kordish, for this question. The Law on Minimum Wages, adopted by the National Assembly on 13 December 2018, lays down new amounts of minimum wage for 2019, 2020, the definition of allowances and work and business performance in 2020 and the reference to minimum living costs in 2021. Throughout the process of adopting that novel, which you certainly remember well, the Ministry of Labour has made a major effort to achieve as much social dialogue as possible. Unfortunately, one part of the social partners is dissatisfied with the level of social dialogue at the time and, unfortunately, not with the change in some social dialogue, but with an intervention that has not been agreed upon in the Economic and Social Council. I must point out that unfortunately, it is also true in the general area of minimum wage that so far the social partners have not been able to reach agreement on practically no issue in the last 10 years. Of course, we are aware of both employers' wishes to freeze the amount of minimum wage and, on the other hand, the union position after a new calculation of minimum living costs and, of course, a higher increase in minimum wage. But your dilemma is actually artificial, because in fact we are all talking and looking together and we are focused on finding a solution that will satisfy both of us. So we will not stand on either side and not on the other side, but I am alone as Minister and Ministry and Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the side of social dialogue. We believe that this exceptional time that we are in is a time when all social partners or, in particular, the two social partners, and employers, can show a certain degree of maturity and sensitivity for this moment and that we are all mature enough together and that I am also encouraging the government, as well as within the Economic and Social Council, to seek a new agreement, a new compromise on minimum wage. The fact is that one of the social partners proposed a special meeting of the Economic and Social Council on this subject a few weeks ago. I myself supported this proposal on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but unfortunately it did not receive the support of all three social partners and this meeting was not held. At the same time, I can say that at least we started the dialogue within the Economic and Social Council last Friday, when this point was one of the points at the regular meeting of the Economic and Social Council. As I said, with regard to the movement of minimum wage, I believe that now is not the time for unilateral action in the area of minimum wage, and it is the right way to discuss the social partners in the Economic and Social Council. The Ministry of Labour and I will make sure that the dialogue between key stakeholders continues in the coming weeks with a view to finding a solution that will address the concerns of both the social partners, both employers and trade unions as much as possible. Finally, the ratified Convention of the International Labour Organisation No. 131, which also sets out, inter alia, the obligation to consult fully with the social partners regarding the determination and coordination of minimum wage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u112	Mr. Brickler King, my question was very simple. Are you the Minister for Workers or are you the Minister for Employers? And you didn't answer that question. You say you want social dialogue and you see maturity and sensitivity in this social dialogue. But it requires the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Employers' Association, i.e. by capital, does not reflect the moderation or sensitivity, but only greed. After receiving more than €1 billion of money from the Slovenian budget through anti-korona measures, this is a budget in which workers contribute to the minimum wage with taxes, and they continue to demand the freezing of this minimum wage. And even now, minimum wages barely make it possible to survive. Just see how prices are moving in Ljubljana, 500 euros for renting apartments, 200 euros for expenses, and I said little more, and the minimum wage is over. Where's the wallet that a minimum wage worker goes for bread and pâté to the store? And yet, the employers' side of the hardships of those who are going to work in the middle of the epidemic are endangering their health in order to maintain the whole society, you, Minister, do not put all these capitalist demands on the sidelines and focus on aid and support for the most vulnerable, it is the workers on the minimum wage, but talk about social dialogue. What workers in this country think about your social dialogue, but they have said very clearly themselves because they ferret with a general sentence. Mr. Minister, your position: Freezing the minimum wage — yes or no, the side of work or the side of capital?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you for the supplementary question, honourable Member Kordish. Side of the agreement, side of the social dialogue and side of the balance. There's a conflict between employers and employees here. It is a matter of finding solutions, especially in these exceptional situations, that allow for one short-term, medium-term and long-term stability and security in this country. All measures taken so far by the anti-Korona and, at this time, by the Economic and Social Council, the draft CAP7 is primarily geared towards protecting people's lives and health, and immediately to helping the economy and the population, with the greatest focus on job conservation. This is the first and highest priority. For together, if we speak purely in terms or in the terminology of the Economic and Social Council, we have already learned that it is far less difficult to keep a job than then to re-create it if we lose it. Of course, the issue of minimum wage is complex, broad and this time of new calculation under the Minimum Wage Act, which I mentioned at the outset, has fallen at an extremely demanding time. At a time when neither Slovenia nor Europe or the world had faced before. And in this sense, we can all find that the net wages in Slovenia are too low, that the difference between social assistance and net minimum wage is too low, that work is not worth it and that the difference between minimum and average wage is too low. And solutions that do not take into account this complexity of the whole thing, which only partial unilaterally could intervene in this relationship, can also undermine the precious balance. As Minister, I believe in social dialogue and at all levels, where responsibility must be, I sincerely and sincerely try to ensure that employers and workers, i.e. trade unions, achieve such a solution in social dialogue that everyone can be satisfied with while maintaining jobs and balance in society.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u116	One collects millions, the other goes to work every day for a minimum wage. This is a society in which, Mr. Minister, there is no more balance. And that you're talking about a balance in a way that freezes the rise of minimum wages, and that for that group of workers that keeps us living as a society in the midst of the worst epidemic, it's discarded. It is very clear that you, like the rest of the government of Janez Janša, do not know ministers for work, but only ministers for employers. First of all, in anti-korona packages, employers' sides, i.e. the capital side, the government has allocated more than EUR 1 billion of various subsidies, aid to preserve ownership among its own companies. She didn't protect the workers, she didn't reward the workers. Now she's obviously going to kick them in by flirting with the idea of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Employers' Association to freeze the growth of the minimum wage, in the midst of a severe social health crisis, when people are particularly exposed to various pressures and with these 700 euros the minimum wage can't survive or survive. That is why I want the National Assembly to hold a general debate. Not about the minimum wage - yes or no, but about the minimum wage, as it was elected, as it was laid down in the law, which we have been working for in Levica for more than four years, in this society is the sanctuary of security for all employees. It is not, however, that it is obvious that for their self-sacrifice in the trade epidemic, industrial workers, as well as certain health-care workers, from the middle nurse to the ambulance driver, and that it rewards certain paramedics, social providers and laborers, and thus further rewards them that their well-deserved raise becomes something in the future far away. At a time when the government of Janez Janša has apparently found a willingness to cut taxes on their luxury vehicles, when playing with ideas of extra stress on capital and the upper parts of the income scale, it is only so much more unacceptable to pressure ordinary workers and their minimum wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 December 2020, in the framework of the votes. Jerca Korče will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u118	Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Good-bye, distinguished minister! We know you've been at the hospital for quite some time, so I'm particularly glad that you're okay and that you're back between us, I believe with new energy. Today I could probably ask you a few questions. We have had quite a few discussions about nursing homes on issues, but we could ask you how social dialogue is bad or does not lead, how it is with the growth of unemployment, why rapid tests are being introduced so late in homes, why ignorance towards young people is being created, not least, a new social group that will have a social problem in the future, and this also concerns your ministry. However, I don't think we can talk about any of these things if, as a society, we allow intolerance to grow, that we come back into the fields of some discrimination and intolerance that we buried decades ago on some black list of our history. All of these topics, which could be opened up about the present or the future, which once become meaningless in every society, where this kind of discourse begins to grow, because words, writings, and so history teaches us, have passed quickly if they have not been crushed in the mud, to acts, to twisted acts that have also led to the murder of some concerned groups that may not fit anyone. And that's why I think it's necessary to respond to such things and crush them really in the rectory, when we're talking about some kind of sowing of the seeds of impatience. And so I ask you, because I have not detected any response from your ministry, your ministry is also carrying the word "equal opportunity" and I think that the first to be in some very harsh way, at least at the principle level, would be to respond to the records we witnessed in the SDS week and are, I will not read them out loud because the words are so black that they are not worth saying again, so I am interested: Why haven't you, as minister or ministry, responded very harshly and in your midst, shown that such words and such records in 2020 are by no means judicial and that we must condemn them every day with all the possibilities we have in the positions we are in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u120	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Parliamentary Korce, thank you very much for this question. Before I start answering, thanks for the good wishes, it's nice to be back. It is certainly an interesting experience, including one such illness that makes our work impossible and gives us a new view, a broader view of things than you yourself have highlighted. I understand your question in the broad context of eliminating all forms of discrimination in our country, in particular in eliminating all forms of discrimination on the basis of different personal circumstances. And here I can say that, as Minister and as the Ministry that I run, it is very clear that protection against discrimination in Slovenia is governed by the Law on Protection against Discrimination, which in Article 1, provides for the protection of every individual and individual from discrimination irrespective of gender, nationality, race or ethnic origin, language, religion or belief, disability, age, sexual orientation, sexual identity and sexual expression, social status, property status, education or any other personal circumstance in different areas of social life in the exercise and exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in the exercise of rights and obligations and in other legal situations in political, economic, social, cultural, civil or other fields. This means that no individual shall be discriminated against on the grounds of any particular personal circumstances in this text or of any other person who does not include the law, for example, because of nationality. I think that in the last nine months, just yesterday, we marked nine months, which we took responsibility for participating in the government and leading our ministries, you realized that my personal style of managing the ministry and my team and the teams that I belong to, namely, the New Slovenia that proposed me to this place, follows these principles very clearly. It is essential that, in our work, in the management of the ministry and in all the measures we take in both anti-korona intervention measures and in the systemic measures that will affect the lives of, and in particular, vulnerable groups in the future, I have guided the dignity of man and every human being and the respect of every human being. In this context, I feel committed to being the one acting with respect, with patience, with compassion, and in this way trying to influence the other institutions as much responsibility as anyone else in order to accept their responsibility for the situation in our society on their own and to try to calm the situation. So, here's a big personal responsibility. You mentioned a very specific text in your question. I have to say, I'm not even aware of who wrote this text. But surely this author, in my opinion, has already faced responses to his text, which, as you mentioned, was not exactly in this sense, as I have just said. I think the author of this text himself, if he has crossed the limit of tolerance and dignity, will also face responsibility for this record. However, once again, I can say that I am very aware of my personal responsibility, that I act as a functioner by spreading patience, by calming down the situation, by being dialogueal, and by recognizing to every human being his dignity. I think that each of us can do the most in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u122	Thank you very much. It is true that each of us can do the most to have tolerance in society, but I think with the minister's role in this case, what is your role, I think it would be the least of your duties to respond harshly to such vile records that travel among people. For every silence, in this case I will say the silence of the body, and the silence of you as the minister who was served here is not good. Since we are patient and try to be patient with other people daily, it does not detract us from the responsibility of drawing action from the functions we have. And in this case, your ministry would be expected to give some official, harsh response. Last but not least, because if we are quiet or if you are quiet, then next time it may come back. And this record we're reading is that I don't think we have any words, not me, not you. [[…]] And that is the final position of the party. Also, if they distance themselves, it is a weekly of a particular party, in this case a leading party, and even if you are trying, as you said, to influence other carriers, the President of your party New Slovenia has also tried to influence that the President of the Government no longer uses so much Twitter, but he has achieved nothing, so obviously you, if you wanted to influence, have achieved nothing, but the public response from your side to this writing has not been. That's why I'm asking you: Why have we not experienced such a response, and does this silence in some way mean agreeing that it is okay for such records to appear in the media? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member of Korča, for the supplementary question. So I will say, since I have been a minister in this place, I myself have received a number of responses to my work. It is also regrettable that there are insults and inappropriate responses to what I am doing or saying or to what I am. And of course it's not pleasant to be in this role. I myself believe that we also have within my headquarters, I would say, institutions that are officially called upon to speak about such individual particular records. However, I must say that I have not been Minister so far, and I could not possibly define or respond to every single record, every matter that appears in the media. Perhaps this would not be the most productive in some way, as I also have no legal basis for judging this or that as a minister. But I can always, as you have challenged me now, say what are my principles, the principles of my team, the principles of a team that runs the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and the same opportunity. I can say that these principles, if I repeat them, are the recognition of human dignity for every individual, the respect of every human being and, of course, the acceptance of personal responsibility for our actions, which we apply in full. I may add that the Law on Protection against Discrimination, which I have already mentioned, obliges all national authorities, all local authorities and holders of public powers and legal and natural persons to ensure that everyone in his field is protected from discrimination or equal treatment of all persons, in particular with regard to certain categories or circumstances that I have already listed. So that I will continue my responsibility and my work, my attitude in this way. But I understand your appeal as a concern for even greater attention and vigilance in that each of us is responsible for the state of public discourse. And we certainly need reconciliation and integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u126	Yes, of course, I think there is still some need to talk about such things in the temple of democracy, so I am certainly making a procedural proposal to have this debate held by the National Assembly. That's right, Minister. First of all, it's not a response to every single record. I believe that every day every one of us receives some kind of unscrupulous message, I will say, a private way or not an electronic address or anything else about our work. However, here we are talking about a public publication in one of the weeks. There was a lot of talk about this in the media, and your silence was still well-spoken. I apologize, of course, today I have understood from your words that you are a proponent of tolerance, that you are aware of what the relevant legislation is in this area, that you are aware, as you yourself have said, that we have institutions which, by official duty, must respond to this, but as a minister, the weight of your words can be sufficiently consistent, so that it is clear, publicly as a representative of the Ministry or as an entire ministry, that such records are condemned and that they do not belong in today's place, time and today's society. It is therefore not just about what the legal basis is, what processes can be, what punishments can be, what can happen in this area, because this part is just one of the parts, I am talking about some penal policy of the country that it can or does not have in our case, as we see. However, that you respond to me at the declaration level or that you, as a minister, are clearly saying that such a record is harmful, and this is something completely different, and from the function you have, you can do so. And I think that would be your duty. This is what I missed when we all read it immediately, because it was published in the media, you respond because it was not just one record, but a record that triggered a lot of public controversy and on the other hand the silence of your ministry. I expect that, with words such as that of some weeds, which need to be removed from our society, you call for this to stop and that you do everything in your power, that you, by official duty, sanction such matters, speak with a public conviction, and on the other hand, that you may consider whether any legislation that is within your jurisdiction is necessary to change, because obviously we have gone so far as not to be self-sufficient that such things are no longer written down, but we will need to do something also in the area of marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 December 2020, in the framework of the votes. Only Bevk will ask the Minister of the Environment and the Magi space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! From 1986 to 1992, a large project of regulation of the river Idrijca and the river Nikova and the construction of a soft dam at the Kolektor factory took place in Idrija, as a result of many floods in the past. At the time, this was one of the major water management projects in Slovenia, which provided long-term flood safety after the floods of the city of Idrija. The most recent anti-floating studies in this area show a great threat to the city of Idria in the event of major floods with a 100-year return period. Thus, Idria was classified among 63 major flood areas. Since water infrastructure also needs to be maintained, which is a major problem in the Republic of Slovenia, I would like to point out that this important facility is threatened by erosion of the soft dam. In the event of a greater flow of the Idrijce River, the erosion of the permeable material on which the object is placed may occur, resulting in in instability of the dam and massive irreparable material damage. A bridge is built over the soft dam, and a collection of fecal water collection is held on the basis of the dam for the entire left bank of the city of Idrija. In the event of instability or even breakdown of anger, we are threatened by an ecological disaster, as fecal waters would flow directly into the Idrijca River. The work of the Collector company would also be threatened and hampered, as the bridge connects the transport routes and in anger, the pumps for technological water are regulated. Finally, a soft dam allows the operation of a small hydroelectric power plant in the Marof village, which could no longer operate if the dam is damaged. That's why you, Mr. Secretary-General. Andrej Vizjak, I ask: What can the Ministry of Environment and Space do to repair the soft dam and waterfall on the Idrijca River at the Kolektor factory, thus preventing the occurrence of major material and environmental damage and flooding in the city of Idria? Thank you very much for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u130	Dear Vice President, honourable Member, Mr Just Bevk! It's a very simple matter. In fact, the problem of this so-called heating dam is that at the Slovenian Directorate of Waters, and thus the Ministry of the Environment, the maintenance of the dam is the responsibility of the holder of the water right to exploit this dam, this is the Soške power plant Nova Gorica, d. o. o., and I will explain this in detail below. So the melting dam was built for the needs of the Idrija Mine, it was built repeatedly in its history or reconstructed in accordance with the needs of the user. The last major reconstruction was carried out some 30 years ago after large floods in the 1980s in the city of Idrija. The reconstruction consisted of a reduction in the fixed-point part of the dam and the improvement of the flexible part - soft dam. This measure provides adequate water quotas for the purpose of operating the hydroelectric power plant and, at the same time, reduces the flood quota in the affected area, i.e. the Idria area. The Soški power plant Nova Gorica has a water right to use water for the production of electricity and the resulting use of the heating dam for this purpose. Through the dam there are also various infrastructure waters, as mentioned above, including the main sewage collector of the city of Idria, which leads to the cleaning plant, there is also a bridge over Idrijca, which is in the internal use of the Collector. In recent years, it has been noted on the dam that there has been an increase in the damage to the dam structure, as well as the waterfall, recovery is necessary, as there may be a risk of jesus safety. As early as 2017, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water called on the right holder of water rights, according to Soške power plant Nova Gorica, and the user of the dam to immediate recovery and thus to fulfil its obligations under the rules and acts on the granting of water rights. You're asking me what we can do. We can do it again, urgently calling on the water right holder to respect his obligations, that is, to immediately remedy the dam. We can, of course, continue to do so in the sense of applying for a proper inspection, but we can also begin the procedure for the seizure of water rights and, as a result, of course, the Directorate assumes responsibility for the rehabilitation of this dam.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the word you gave me again. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. Idrian mayor Tomaž Vencelj informed me, of course, that this pingpong is taking place between the direction and between the municipality or power plants. The head of the congregation is interested to meet with the head of the Ministry, it is said to you, and if they address the request to accept them, I propose that you accept the mayor and the Deputy Minister of the Idri municipality for such a discussion. In fact, I would like to remind you of this project 30 years ago, this Idrija Kavčič regulatory project coincided with the time when Idrija Ivica Kavčič, President of the Assembly, was president of the Idrija Ivica Kavčič Municipality. She recently published a book of memories detailing this project. Let me quote a short paragraph. I'm saying. “Every year the devastation of the water was patiently tolerated by the Idrians for centuries. The floods were taken as something self-indulgent, natural, which comes and you accept. I did not see anyone, apart from that prefect in 1926, repaying anything or even thinking of requesting anything from the State or the congregation. Things started to change for the better when water communities were established with their source of financing and management. The Water Community of Slovenia, based in Ljubljana, was responsible for major investments.” Mr Minister, I propose that, if there is a request, the representatives of the Idrija Municipality in connection with this project be admitted to a discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u134	Of course, honourable Member, we will accept the leadership of the Idria Municipality for a discussion. As I say, there is no problem with them, the problem is with the holder of water rights, and it is crucial that we resolve this problem. I am sure that the management of the Water Directorate will also be at this meeting, where we will once again highlight our arguments. I respect Slovenian history, what was 30 years ago was 30 years ago, what is today with all water rights is valid and must be respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukić will ask the Culture Minister Dr Vask Simoniti and the Minister of Justice mags. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, dear Minister! On 3 December, in the magazine Democracy was published a horrendous text entitled Presci 5 by Alexander Škorc, in which the author spreads ideas of classical racism with elements of religious racism. I quote: Because he is endlessly righteous, God will make sure that migrants will get sick and die for unexplained reasons, for he knows such a microorganism as will take care of extermination. God’s virus is selective, so it will pick up only certain people, certain races. The elimination will be successful, similar to weeding, the eradication of dance and the treatment of natural pests. The key is in the white race that God prefers, so the virus will protect this most advanced race from destruction because it is kind. Hence, God is a racist, and he wonders, among other things, the author who, of course, put this burden of responsibility upon God. Certainly not, for man is also exterminating, and if God cannot be racist, why should man be, and so on and so forth. In this record we encounter a frightening metaphor of extermination that directly reminds us of Nazi rhetoric, Endlösung and the Holocaust, the use of Hitlerian metaphors. Religious fanatics and Nazi sympathizers will always exist, but the question is whether in a democratic society of the 21st century we will allow the courage of the normalisation of racist rhetoric in right-wing media and even in Parliament to receive public space. The question is, can we tolerate the fact that the newspaper, which is regulated by the SDS party and in which Slovenian state-owned companies also advertise, spreads the talk about foreigners as dance and weeds? And this is also my first question for you, Minister and Minister: Is it even permissible for the media to exist in society, apparently spreading hate speech, intertwined with elements of racism and Nazi and fascist ideology? Is it not time for once and for all in the Penal Code to tighten the limit, to where freedom of speech goes, and from where is it the hate speech, which must be without a pardon, a matter of prosecution and sanction, and such media should be erased from media coverage, not only to receive financial support from the State or to advertise state-owned companies? They should simply be prohibited, as should be the prohibition of neo-Nazi groups, to which the European Parliament has already called in 2018 when it adopted a resolution in Strasbourg by a large majority calling for the prohibition of neo-Nazi and neo-Nazi groups in the European Union [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u137	I'm afraid we're out of time. Minister, Minister, who's first? Dr. Simonita, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u138	Thank you very much. So for such media matters in Slovenia, of course, we have a media inspectorate and a law that must determine violations and crimes, and that is probably more said by the Minister. I would just say that, of course, such writing, such an article, even though it refers to satire, is totally unacceptable, Husjski, dangerous and deserves the sharpest conviction. The Slovenian Democratic Party also distanced itself from this article and, of course, made it public and clearly distanced itself from it, and in a magazine that is not owned to the full, one would say, from the party you are reading it, but is a modest proportion, and that is all. However, she clearly and unequivocally showed her contempt for such an article and for such writing. At the same time, I must say that I am grateful to you for your question, because such things have been happening for a long time without a proper response in other magazines and weeklyes or a week that you will never expose as a problem. That's why I'm gonna say this. I reject and reject such and similar writing, and any excuse in that matter is superfluous. It is exactly the same with the publication of the editing of politicians with hooky crosses, compared with Nazis, fascists, comparing them with goebbels, when dealing with such and similar malicious malice in the name of class combat by various activists, with the aim of final physical exclusion of other thinkers. I reject, of course, the constant labelling of people with false signs and marks, which are of course far from satire, but are a deliberate propaganda protection to strengthen a negative attitude towards people. Such writing and painting are dominant in a week governed by hybrid knowledge that likes to spread about democracy. I could compare it to Günther Dahlk, but if I did, of course I would fall for his, as I would say, use this language, which is foreign to me and disgusting. Such preservation, which, of course, is marked by satire, even sometimes, is of course repugnant, disgusting and has formed an atmosphere that also led to the 1991-1995 war, when we also had concentration camps and, of course, all those things that you say were considered to be a period of Nazism. Remember the password There will be salads, we will slaughter the Croats. As similar things happen, various Slovenians are waiting for their violent nature to be brought to life today as comics, satirists and performers. Years ago, we had shown in this direction with the gangs in Maribor, which some have called as rebels, but were nothing more than a living puppet on the ropes of former sworn anti-democrats. Similarly today, there is nothing more than protecting ourselves from violence by placing bloody tables in front of the Ministry of Culture or by declaring doctors and high-ranking civil servants as murderers or threatening graffiti in front of my house. I reject all such articles and all such public demonstrations and actions. And when you equally strongly and unequivocally condemn all such deviations, I will believe in the sincerity of your question today.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, perhaps you would like a word as well? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u140	Thank you very much for the opportunity to respond on my own. Freedom of speech has absolute limits and an article, although it refers to satire, goes beyond the limits of permissive and, in accordance with my knowledge of criminal law, may in this case be a criminal offence. Although I am not in charge of prosecution, we can see that this is about encouraging, spreading hatred on the basis of both religious and other elements. So I hope and believe that the law enforcement authorities have detected this and have also initiated appropriate procedures. At present, we already have a criminal offence defined in the Penal Code, but let me say that the priority of the Ministry of Justice during the Presidency is to specifically address hate speech and hate crimes, so we want to move forward in this area. The European Union too, so the European Commission will present a legislative framework that we will then discuss. In particular, we will have a conference on the subject of hate speech. [[microphone dig]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u141	I'm afraid we're out of time. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u142	Madam Minister, I thank you for your reply and I welcome what you have said, which you will deal with. Mr Minister, just for you, today we have a case of an extremely racist article dealing with actual fascist rhetoric. Of course, we can also talk about more widespread bickering and so on, but something like that is unprecedented and that is why we are talking about it exclusively today. But you yourself have found that the excuses that went to this last Škorč's excess in the weekly Democracy for the Voice or the satire do not hold back. Nothing, for nothing in this record is humorous or amusing; it is even less here to find a trace of any criticism of a social problem, which is basically satirized, so no reference to a different form in this case is abstention. The truth is that it is a demeaning, disgusting writing that actually reminds us of the darkest times of dehumanization of mankind, slavery, the Holocaust, and so forth. In a resolution adopted by the European Members by a large majority condemning such excesses, Members attach importance to the education and awareness of young people about history and call for public rejection of the crime from the past. That's why I'm asking you, Minister Simonita: What do you think about your ministry launching a campaign in the form of a public call for media and artistic and cultural projects to promote diversity and condemn any racism? Do you believe that the media spreading such a racist speech is entitled to state subsidies? Minister, and you: Do you believe that this writer and editor should be persecuted in accordance with the Penal Code? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u144	Maybe I got it wrong or we got it wrong. I never said it, or I misunderstood you that I would have excused it under a satire or something like that. No, no. I didn't say that. There's no excuse for these things, they're too serious. Of course, such a person should withdraw certain consonants in order to simply eliminate an officer, and I cannot judge that by one article or perhaps more. But I told you the same thing about another week that's like that and I think it's actually worse than it is every week. So, please, here, when we have the same vat, I'll back it all up. And to measure everything with fascism, and with Nazism, these flossules, please, remember in the 1980s and remember the 1990s and correctly name the things we lived, experienced and saw, and were personally some kind of place there. Third thing. So absolutely, all neo-Nazi or similar groups must be sanctioned, their operation prohibited, as well as all anti-fa movements that are equal to primitive abusers, which also appeared on Kotnikova in Ljubljana, not least the former President of our country was with them, which is extremely inappropriate, and were armed black men, who in fact need to be banned and sanctioned, just as all the other groups that advocate totalitarian systems. I don't see any problem here, and here I would be extremely strict and unrelenting.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u146	Thank you. As I said in the first part, given my behaviour and knowledge of criminal law, the elements of the crime are given. So I hope both the police and the D.A. have initiated proceedings. However, we must always be careful when we say, for we must respect the presumption of innocence until the trial is concluded in court, we cannot tell anyone that he is guilty. In any case, if the procedures do not begin, there is no way we can reach such a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u148	Thank you very much, of course I do. I suggest that we seriously discuss the problem of racism and hate speech in the National Assembly. Because it's politics that has to react strongly. I think this time I call things by the right name. Indeed, this article is a purely racist and truly fascist pamphlet. So that racist excesses, the extermination of migrant weeds, which is at God's will and in accordance with the supremacy of a white man, are unfortunately not the first such outburst on the side of the Democratic magazine, but the reason we as a society take seriously to discuss racism, hate speech and intolerance in order to prevent the crimes that such cruelty brings forth would, of course, be for this extreme time that the writings, as published in the political weekly Democracy, are no longer merely media critics, but in fact the law of persecution, as we have already said here today. We therefore expect in Levica that the competent authorities will begin to prosecute and sanction the spread of Nazi ideas on an official basis. The concerns and warnings of MEPs are more than justified when neo-Nazi ideas are on the rise in the European Union. Attention also to negotiations between political leaders and parties and neo-fascists and neo-Nazis in some Member States, which is particularly worrying, such as the worrying racist rhetoric of some Members and Members of Parliaments of the European Union. That is why the MEPs have called for this in 2018 to clearly condemn and punish hate crimes and hate speech, as well as politicians and officials who expose someone as a sinful goat. Members estimate that these actions actually directly strengthen hatred and violence. And in the opinion of the European Parliament, together with the social media, we should also take measures to promote racism, fascism and hatred of foreigners in all spheres of public life. That's why I really think that the last time we've seen him is really about time. We have repeatedly pointed out a hate speech that unfortunately strengthens and hides itself under the cover of freedom of speech. But this time is actually the time. However, I think that the court has come to the bottom that such a manifesto of hatred in this country, I do not think, in such a frightening form, we have ever read. Therefore, once again, I would like you to support this time, including the members of the coalition, once again a thorough discussion on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 December 2020, in the framework of the votes. Igor Peček will ask Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku and Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia presented a plan for the release of virus infection control measures prepared by the expert group of the Ministry of Health days ago. In accordance with the plan adopted, outdoor sports activities are allowed again in the third, this is an orange phase, provided that on a seven-day average less than a thousand people are infected or that less than a thousand patients with the virus will be hospitalised. As a result, it is so difficult to predict when the measures envisaged by the orange phase will be released. In European countries where ski tourism is one of the most important economic sectors, the transport problem has already been addressed, much ahead of us. Some of the skis are already in operation, some of them are open. In neighbouring Austria, ski resorts will start operating on December 24th. Wiremen have known this for quite some time. Until yesterday evening, in Slovenia, as part of the incarceration measures, only those ski resorts where direct access is possible by vehicles and can only be used by the inhabitants of the municipality where the ski resort is located. The case of Bloody Man, there were 100 skiers on Saturday, 400 skiers on Sunday. On average, however, as much cost-effective activity should take about a thousand 500 to thousands of 800 skiers a day. Yesterday evening, we were able to read a tweet from the Prime Minister of the Government, who spoke about removing restrictions on movement for users of applications in certain regions by 23 December, and a little later tweeted by the Minister of Infrastructure in order to be able, otherwise with limitations, to transport in cabin cables. I believe that all of us are aware that economic operators need, as far as possible, a predictable environment to properly prepare themselves. The government's tweets certainly don't guarantee that. We were defending something on Saturday, something else on Sunday. So I'm interested in: What is the strategy, in fact, and on what basis are the measures being introduced and released? Centres and users expect further clarifications. When can they expect them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Minister, you have the floor to answer. Mr. Resting Man, will you do it first? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u152	Dear President, honourable Member Igor Peček, Honourable National Assembly! Thank you for asking. The ski decision concerns several sector ministries, the Ministry of Infrastructure, Education and Economy. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology does not have direct powers over the legal regulation of sport recreational activities. A colleague will answer this question. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, through the Decree on the Temporary Prohibition of the Offering and Sale of Consumer Goods and Services in the Republic of Slovenia, is without prejudice to this area. Sports facilities, in this case ski resorts and cableways, are inseparably linked to sports-recreational activities. However, we limit our ministry's previously mentioned decree to activities which inevitably monitor skiing and are still temporarily banned. The area of tourism is very affected in this epidemic and, of course, I would like to see the activities released as soon as possible in full, and in particular in the work which is of a distinct seasonal nature and is counted on the days when the conditions are also favourable in terms of snow and weather. But, as I have often pointed out in recent days, only provided that this is sustainable in terms of the state of the health system and that it is possible to give due and full consideration to the recommendations of the healthcare profession and the National Institute for Public Health. Under certain conditions, a temporary restriction decree allows sports activities to be carried out, which, of course, once again, I say, is inseparably linked to the relevant infrastructure. We expect providers and consumers to strictly respect the rules and guidelines of health institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Peck. Ski resorts are part of sports facilities under the Sport Act, which now allows for limited exercise of sports exercises for athletes of this highest-class competition and professional athletes for either their training or competitions under the current Temporary Restrictions Directive. It is also allowed, of course, for sport-recreational exercise provided that this sports recreation is carried out on the ski slope either by an individual or by an individual in a group with members from the same household. These are the conditions in the context of the exercise of sports activities that can be skied in Slovenian ski resorts in these times from the point of view of our competence, i.e. the competent Ministry of Sport. Of course, all participants in sports activities must follow not only our instructions, but also the instructions of the Ministry responsible for health. Here we are talking mainly about all NIJS protocols to prevent infections with SARS-COV-2, which are also published at all times by the Ministry of Health. What else can I say? Certainly this is your question of a broader nature. You are also asking about the necessary infrastructure to get to the ski resorts at all. This is the story of the decision of the Ministry responsible for infrastructure, which you have also rightly said that it prepared in this light yesterday an amendment to the decree and provided very clear conditions under which these infrastructure means of transport for skiing can be used. Then, of course, there is also a need to respect the current decision of the Ministry of the Interior regarding border crossings. And I must certainly point out that all the competent inspection services are also active at work. Even in the light of everything you've pointed out, it's been happening this week or this weekend, it's obviously more than necessary for them to be very active at work.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u156	Thank you very much again. My question went in a different direction than your answers were transmitted. I asked you, one is valid, then to make a change from today to tomorrow, but there are not enough explanations necessary to enable users and centres to behave properly and to know which measures will have to be taken further. It is clear to all that it is necessary to follow the instructions and I am sure that users follow these instructions as well as the cable drivers. However, we are just before the adoption of the law, which provides for partial co-financing of the cost of maintenance of cable devices by the state. Restrictive measures will create an additional financial deficit. We know that skiing is a relatively safe form of recreation also from the point of view of the spread of infections, we have protected both our mouth and our hands. During the spring or summer months, the fact that, with proper respect for the measures taken to implement this type of recreation has already been demonstrated in Canin, where, for example, more than 23,000 users, tourists, and no infections have been recorded during the summer. But I also have a question: What was your position on the Slovenian Wire Association’s forecast, for they predicted that in the event that they could not provide enough ski days, they would require compensation? What strategy has the Government prepared for those places that are most dependent on winter tourism? I also ask for an explanation regarding the operation of filament cables. Thank you very much again, both of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u158	See, tourism, where it belongs from its economic point of view also to this skiing or skiing activity, we have already helped in some way by now, by means of tourist vouchers. With a public call for operating costs, we help through SPIRIT at a total value of €10 million, with a call for help for carriers to be able to carry out their basic activity. All companies, including this one, have the opportunity to use tools to wait for work. In this last CAP, especially because of tourism activities, we propose to raise the limit in partially covering fixed costs to EUR 2 000. This activity is one that is deeply affected, and of course we must also take into account the fact that we are living surrounded by neighbors who have a diametrically different view on this issue. In the West, our neighbors advocate or carry out a complete closure; in the North, things are open. This does not mean that now we have to weigh one story and another, we wanted and want to allow skiing under the conditions of maximum compliance with these health anti-korona standards to work. The answer to the question of what we will do if the activity is disabled - we will definitely have to prepare, in addition to these general measures for such specific activities, measures to enable businesses in this sector to survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u160	Thank you very much. As the Minister has already told you, the government is working to ensure that, in a given situation, of course, with certain limitations, skiing and skiing work, but, as it is said, all these restrictive measures must be respected on all sides. Last but not least, I would like to take advantage of these last seconds just to remind us all that the largest growth in Europe of the first covid-19 infections occurred at the beginning of this year on ski slopes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, would you like a word? You don't want to. Let's move on. Vojko Starovic will place Aleša Hojsa, Minister of the Interior, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I would like to ask you a question to the Minister of the Interior, although he is not here, and I want an oral answer from him at the next meeting. I repeat the question I posed a month ago in the National Assembly: Can he not professionally explain to us who actually organised the violent events of November this year? Who invited a bunch of thugs on them? Who hurt the press and who threw the cop? It seems incomprehensible and unacceptable to me that the police are pursuing peaceful protestors, describing them, and having accurate information about them, while violent performances from a good month ago, we know almost nothing, even though the police were prepared for them. According to the Minister, the last time the police prepared for these events in response to my question was because it was observed on social networks and also in personal interviews with people. So the police already had a number of data in advance on which she knew violent events were coming. Now, after a good month, when they actually happened, there's no further explanation. How's that? On the other hand, we are monitoring the persecution and punishment of participants in peaceful protests, otherwise thinking people, and people who enjoy eating a doughnut or a sandwich outdoors. But we can also follow other forms of persecution of other thinkers, such as the lawsuit against Dr. Rudi Rizman, the firing of whistleblowers, the tracking of Jashi Jenul, the threat to the Peace Institute and journalists, and so on. All of this gives the impression that the police are also being used to persecute other thinkers. That suggests some perverted use of the police. As a repressive apparatus, the police must primarily protect people and their property, as well as in democracy the dignity and respect of the freedom of citizens of Slovenia, including the freedom to express a different opinion and to disagree with the government. I repeat the question: Who organized violent events, and who invited the smashing groups to them? Who hurt the press and who turned the cops? The Home Secretary must know how to answer that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u163	Thank you very much. You will receive your answers orally at the next meeting, as you wish. Janja Sluga will ask Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! The Act on Pharmacy Activities in Article 9, paragraph 2, provides that each of the regional units of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia shall be organised at least one pharmacy which ensures the 24-hour supply of medicines to the population, the so-called on-call pharmacy. The pharmacy chamber, according to my information, has turned to the competent ministry and has informed you that the epidemic is causing a staff problem. I also have in my hands a letter or a recommendation from the Ministry dated 26 October 2020 signed by the mag. Maria Magajne, who gives instructions that a temporary limitation of opening time is recommended in pharmacy units with a 24-hour supply of medicines, i.e. in on-call pharmacies, until 21:00. The Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Chamber of Medicine of Slovenia, recommends that the opening time of the pharmacy be reduced to six hours and that the opening time of the branch pharmacy be reduced to two hours. Based on this and this letter, the director of the Celje Pharmacy is also referred to, since in Celje, as the third largest city in Slovenia, it happened that we only had an on-call pharmacy open for two hours. As it is said, the director of the Celje Pharmacy refers to these recommendations. These recommendations, in my laziness, are contrary to what the Act on Pharmacy, which I have previously read, states in Article 9, paragraph 2. That is why, of course, I can agree that measures to curb the spread of the virus are necessary, necessary, I can also understand the human resources crisis of pharmacies, but I do not think that we should in any way reduce the accessibility of people to medicines and other products they need for treatment, especially during the epidemic, when the need for these medicines or those without a prescription is even greater, because there is a lot of help to themselves and the need for a 24-hour medical service is very fine.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members! Ambassador, thank you for that question. Yes, like other segments, the epidemic affected this activity, of course. And if we constantly expose a relatively small number of workers working in the health sector and even in homes, we did not talk very much about pharmacies themselves, where the workers are particularly exposed. In fact, we get quite a bit of information about people who have either been tested, sick, or in contact, who can still come to the pharmacy, but who come regardless of the disease. Of course, all of these infections occur in pharmacies. And we were indeed invited by the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia, which organizes and takes care of this activity to try to help them. We've decided to make a recommendation that I don't think is contrary to the law on the other hand. In fact, we need to know, one is a state of emergency and a number of options have been offered. The fact is that at the moment some pharmacies, especially now Ptuj, Celje and Gorenje pharmacy, from 12 have a problem of course providing 24-hour care. While we need to know that the majority of supplies, 99%, are held between 8 a.m. and 20 p.m. In addition, some other options have been offered, including to provide the most urgent medicines to physicians who would give the medicines directly to patients. However, doctors say that it is not necessary for pharmacies to act to such an extent that even without this measure can be done. Another problem that is present in pharmacies is that one pharmacy, a central pharmacy, usually covers a number of units in an area. And of course they're trying to provide some degree of accessibility in all units, not just one. These units are also quite far apart from each other. Therefore, the schedule may be disrupted even during the day if the personnel are not available enough. And according to our recommendation, it is clear that with regard to temporary changes in the organisation of pharmacy activities in other pharmacies at the primary level in the event of a reduction in opening time, where, in view of the situation in a particular pharmacy unit, it is necessary that MZ, in cooperation with the Pharmacy Chamber, recommends a reduction in opening time. But it's a condition when it's necessary. It is not a wish, not because someone would not want to work in some term, but in fact, if there is no frame available and, of course, if there is not, then we probably cannot find a significantly different solution in this case. In fact, some of the pharmacy workers are either quarantined or hospitalized because of the covid disease itself, and I don't have the exact number here. They assure me, of course, that even in Celje, conditions are calming down and that they will soon be able to establish a normal activity. At this point, for I say, as they say, they are trying to secure multiple locations and deploy employees who can work just to get people to medicines, which certainly limits the accessibility of individual units in some place. Of course, here I hardly see any important different solutions, such as the fact that this time is limited, especially the nighttime, and that despite everything to the on-call pharmacy usually come and get these medicines that are needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Here you are, Madam Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u168	As it is said, because we all understand the situation as it is, we also understand that employees are sick, infected or quarantined or whatever. However, it is certainly necessary to understand the need of people at this very time. According to some studies and studies, people do not decide to visit a doctor at the time of the epidemic, even if they do visit him in some normal times, nor do they decide to call. And as a result, of course, you get so much more, I'll say, self-medication. That means they need more access to drugs than I said, even those without a prescription. You always have to put both sides on the scale here. I understand this instruction, but I still think that the law is the law and the law says something, it does not foresee such a situation. However, what I thought was my point — the communication of the Celes Pharmacy with the people who turned to them — was inappropriate for my ideas. It would be much better to clarify the whole situation, not just to refer to the Ministry and their letter. In any case, however, some decision on temporary non-removal of personnel from one pharmacy to another, in my opinion, must not be the factor that will affect how long people will be able to come to the pharmacy for medicines. What can be done, I don't know, but it would be very good to make sure that this 24-hour accessibility is, of course, in a city as big as Celje, for the wide area as it is covered, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Look, it's a dilemma, of course. Now the dilemma is that for the first time, you need to know that if people are gone, you have nowhere to take them. This is not what the Ministry or any law can do for people who are sick and unable to work. On the other hand, there is certainly a dilemma in this, of course at a certain point we could provide a 24-hour pharmacy or work, which means that several places would be closed in parallel, because we should simply redirect the frame. And given that it is a matter of covering one of the wider areas, it seems to me that even in that area, at least for a certain time, there is a pharmacy available, and some things, but you will drive, I don't know, so many miles away and get to the pharmacy to be at that location all the time. It's a decision. Here we have tried, indeed, the Pharmacy Chamber has ensured that it has under control that people get the medicines they need and, secondly, that it is true in cases where they are percentages due to disease and not due to vacations or something similar, that work cannot be organized in any other way. And look, that's just one more reason to calm the epidemic, stick to the measures and try to make the number of infected as small as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Robert Pavšič will ask Health Minister Tomaž Gantar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u172	Good day to you all! Mr. Gantar, you're a doctor, but today you're a minister. As Minister, you make political decisions. In this space, i.e. in the National Assembly, and through the media in the last period at all, but in all history, we monitor different data and these data change considerably over time. About that, you probably agree with me. Therefore, when these changes are made, it is very important that these data are credible, even if they are the basis for a political decision. At the beginning of today, when Prime Minister Janez Janša answered the question, I will read the magnetogram: "In this real world, according to the Ministry of Health, Slovenia had 120 beds for acute hospital treatment on 13 March 2020, when our government swore. Today there's a thousand 391. On 13 March, when the government swore, we had 19 beds available for intensive treatment, today we have 219. My memory is still good, you know, Mr. Gantar. On May 5th, we received this government report. And the figures quoted today by Prime Minister Janez Janša do not match this report. It says 60 beds for intensive therapy, 486 maximum available beds for easier patients. As early as March 25, the number changed, and from your mouth you said at a meeting in the National Assembly that we had 257 intensive beds. And on June 18th, the number was changing again and constantly changing. We've had dialogues on these numbers a few times. But now you tell me: Is he lying to your ministry or is he lying to Prime Minister Janez Janša? Because if these data are the basis on which you then make political decisions, I am already seriously concerned, but that this is constantly and publicly exposed, be careful, 120 beds for acute hospital treatment and 19 beds for intensive care today said by the President of the Government, this is not anyone, Mr Minister, and he referred to data from your ministry. Please tell me: How can you, on the basis of such data, decide as a politician and as an expert, especially as a human being? And who was here today, not just me, but the whole of Slovenia, deceiving us?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you for asking. I can see that there's quite a bit of a mix-up about these issues. The numbers you just quoted, I think it's a big mix here because I know that some of the numbers I used when you were asking me, we were talking about fans. The fan does not mean an intensive bed, but you are now referring to numbers mainly in relation to fans. Look, the data that I have here, I have here daily all the tables, the numbers on all hospitals in order, how many beds, ordinary, acute, intense, how free, how busy are they, because they are the data that we collect from performers every day when we plan our work, and we also use them daily, of course. Because, as far as this is concerned, decisions aren't hard to make when I look on my side. Nevertheless, I do my utmost to decide, irrespective of the function I perform, in accordance with my profession, with the instructions of the profession and according to the capacity of the healthcare system. As far as intensive beds are concerned, if we talk about them – I will not talk about fans now, because I did not collect these data now either. We mostly have enough fans. Of course, the problem is not even the bed itself as much as the problem is of course qualified. And Slovenia has entered this crisis with the smallest number of intensive beds in Europe to a certain number of inhabitants. Slovenia only has them, according to the information I received back then from Professor Night, we had at our disposal – intensive beds I speak, once again so that there will be no mistake – 157. And that means all the intensive beds that were in hospitals for acute treatment of all patients who were available, I don't know, after surgery, heart attacks and so on, just everyone who needs either internistic or surgical intensive treatment. And this number, if we're looking at today, we've had for quite some time now after this data, let's say at least the last 10 days at least, occupied, if we're looking at, say, 10 days, and from 195 to 206 intense beds just for covid patients. I'm talking about occupied beds that are recorded every day. I do not know at this point how many intensive beds are occupied with other patients who need intensive treatment, given that in these tables we are looking at providing a sufficient number of intensive treatment options for covid patients, while, of course, all the other patients who need it are receiving intensive treatment. But I don't know how many there are right now, because we don't take this data from hospitals. And if I look at what we're planning now. I'm just going to give, say, the cut date that I have on this table, 16. 10 we had hospitalized with covid on acute beds 195 patients, on intensive 32 covid. Today, on today, wait, 14, no, I have 9 here, I took some old papers, but it doesn't matter, 9. 12. There were thousands of 69 and 189 intensive beds on the acute beds. And we monitor this daily, given that we know to what extent it is possible to increase the capacity in the healthcare system. We had a meeting with the directors on Saturday, again to check the capacity, with the President of the Government and there, and they made it clear that expecting a substantial increase over these figures is obviously not realistic. There is always another bed, the upper limit of the intensity options, which is said to be about 250 beds according to the availability of staff.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Vice President. I did not refer, Mr Gantar, to the number of fans, because I did not even foresee this in today's question to you. However, the matter was challenged by the President of the Government, today he said this and referred to the cut-off date of 13 March and to the data of the Ministry of Health. So the ministries that you run. 120 beds for acute treatment, 19 beds for intensive care. That's what the Prime Minister said today. Well, I'm not making up data. There's a magnetogram of his response already made public. And the report that I put together is just an illustration that this data is constantly changing, so, after nine months, just yesterday, this number of beds is smaller on March 13th every day. I don't know, Mr. Gantar, who else we can trust in this country. I believe you, and you haven't answered me who lied – either your ministry or today's Prime Minister? So don't tell me about some understanding of data. These are numerical data, one is one, two is two. Who should we trust? I'm not here today to judge you. But we expect you to finally speak the truth in this building, the truth, so that we can help you because we see what the situation is. The situation is far from pink. We all know it's a very serious situation, and now we're offering you a hand. All we want in return is the truth, nothing else. It's a numerical truth. Who was fooling us today? That wasn't a mistake. We all know the Prime Minister. Janez Janša is not wrong. He's in one way or another unmistakable. And if today he was referring to 120 beds for acute treatment, 19 for intensity, then someone was lying.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u178	Yeah, look, this could be a mistake, of course. We report daily how many beds are occupied and how many patients are in intensive care. Acute treatment is not considered an intensive bed, it is a patient who needs hospital treatment at some stage of worsening of the disease and is accepted. And these have been accepted recently, this number has been moving for the last 10, 14 days, about a thousand. We have accurate data, once again, every day. In addition, there are in intensive beds, daily, about 200 plus, minus 10, 15, also 20. But we report this data every day, and that's why the number of beds occupied, both of them together, is constantly moving, about a thousand 300 for covid patients in this part. This is after the measures have exceeded the curve into some kind of plateau. Only acute treatment data, 120 beds, is of course pointless, given that we have receptions in Slovenia, it is said, we can say acute treatments, 7 000 500 beds, about, in all hospitals. Of course, 120 beds can't be below any number that hospitals have at their disposal, given that I think that the smallest hospital has significantly more beds than 120. But it was true, and this information, I hope to remember it right when we started the spring by Professor. The night that went on, which was in charge of the beds in the intensive units, was then 157 beds in the intensive units that we were now adding, increasing and trying to reorganize so that today we have only one patient occupied on average, say, 200. These are the data that we report daily at press conferences. From this title, of course, I also try to convince people and, of course, the government that one problem is the release of measures, given that health care has no important reserves, and, of course, on the other hand, people to try to stick to the measures, that we still need to know that the same measures are practically equal, they have stopped the growth of infections in Slovenia, and in Austria they have reduced the number of daily infections for half. Now we don't have time for reasons because there's a lot of them. But this is this concern and this is the concern of virtually all countries that warn that there is no breakdown of the health system. And that's why my warnings, and once again, these data, I can give you these tables for every single day, across the street, because they're exactly here because they're based on the daily hospital reports.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Pavšič, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u180	Thank you, Vice President. I could actually read the answer between the lines. It is obvious that some in this government have something to do with the system not being broken, and others are only about manipulating data from the past, by the fact that there is not only some historical memory, but also documentation that indicates a time-changing of data on what this country actually had at its disposal, what it has and what it will have at its disposal. It is not a problem in the number of beds to treat patients, but in intensive beds today. Prime Minister Janša, as president of the current government, highlighted two figures in order to show how this should have been in the past and how this is not better today, and that was simply not true. And to put it even more simply, he lied. There were no 120 beds, there were 7 thousand 500, if we take everything according to your data, about. And there were not 19 intensive beds, but 157. Today, we see how many there are, because we can actually monitor statistics, how many people are in hospitals and how many are in intensive care. And in this regard, Mr Gantar, don't worry, I'm concerned as a citizen that in the end there will be a chance that the system will break. But I still trust in the system and that if this happens, we will all be given full care as citizens. That's what I still believe. You can't take that away from me. Not with manipulation and false reporting. Now this goes beyond any measure of good taste – before the Slovenian public on behalf of the Council of Ministers to refer to the data of one ministry, which then turns out not to be real, but to be false. This is what is very dangerous to this country today. I therefore propose that, in accordance with the rules of procedure at the next meeting, we hold a thorough debate on this issue. And if the coalition side still has a little respect for this country and for this institution, it will also support it, because in the debate, even on such an important issue, we have nothing to lose, but we can only win.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Your question will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the vote on Thursday, 17 December. We're moving on. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister! Since the first wave of the covid-19 epidemic, more than 8 000 guards or almost half of all wards in nursing homes and some 3,000 employees have been infected. Therefore, according to this data, the number of infected elderly and employees in Slovenian homes for the elderly has shown that the complete closure of homes for visits to relatives has not stopped the spread of the virus. The experience of other countries has shown that, in limiting the spread of the virus in the DSOs, the establishment of external red zones, where localally separated infected guards from the uninfected, and the regular preventive testing of employees, were crucial. I have already warned you about the establishment of external red zones in my written parliamentary question. First of all, I've seen solutions for accommodations in closed hotel complexes that are closed, you won't believe from the first wave of the epidemic, and they're also suitable for installing the elderly. Unfortunately, your response and the response of the Minister of Health were negative at the time. On 30 November 2020, the Silver Nite Association addressed a letter to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia inviting relatives to visit their homes for the elderly, as well as a recommendation for the safe conduct of these visits for both residents and visitors. Restricting visits to nursing homes has an extremely long-term impact on the physical and mental state of the elderly, as social contacts contribute significantly to the vitality, cognitive abilities of the elderly. Therefore, adequate protective equipment and regular preventive testing of visitors are essential to prevent the spread of the virus by visitors in GMOs. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Will you take into account the proposal of the Silver Thread - Association for Decent Ages, which proposes to include in the 7th Anti-Corron Package the coverage of the costs of protective equipment and rapid tests for relatives who really want to visit their relatives in homes for older citizens? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u183	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Mrs Muršič, for this issue, which concerns the care of the elderly, an area which we have been paying special attention to since the beginning of the mandate. On 2 December this year, 11-12 days ago, updated recommendations were issued by the Ministry of Health, the National Institute of Public Health and the Chamber of Health and Grandmothers of Slovenia to prevent and combat infections with the SARC-COV-2 virus in social welfare institutions which state that the prohibition of visits to nursing homes is not an appropriate public health measure. As you know, and as you yourself have stated, some of the experiences of our neighbours or not so territorially close countries, but EU countries indicate that other psychosocial distress has arisen at the possible total closure of the homes for visits, and, of course, as a result, unfortunately, death due to loneliness and feelings of abandonment. For this reason, at the Ministry of Labour, together with the profession I mentioned, we have always been concerned that homes are primarily supported by enabling, as far as possible, safe and in the most difficult situations when, say, they had a major outbreak of the virus, at least the most urgent contacts. At the same time, we supported homes and teams with other technical means that were in support of videoconference, telephone contacts, when direct contacts were not possible. But we are basically aware of what you have pointed out to be essential to psychosocial health and the situation of the elderly in nursing homes. However, as recommended by the medical profession, the planned and monitored conduct of visits using personal protective equipment and monitoring of the health status of visitors is advised. It is essential that here – and we stress this all the time – relatives who come or who want to come to visit are also extremely attentive to their health and are responsible that in cases where they have any potential symptoms of SARS-COV-2 infection, they stay at home and do not visit their elderly relatives or friends. At the same time, we understand the leadership of those homes that are temporary, but I really stress the temporary, limited visits in the event of an outbreak of the virus, when it was necessary to reorganise, re-arrange teams and organize themselves spatially at the time of the outbreak of the virus. Of course, I can also say, in view of all the videoconferences with which we regularly have been in contact with the directors of social security institutions, that these periods have not been long-term and that it has always weighed between protecting the lives and health of residents and, on the other hand, allowing for as normal contacts and life as possible. Of course, these videoconferences and other contacts are also the role of social welfare institutions and their contact within the Chamber and the Community of Social Protection Institutions, so that they have also passed on examples of good practice to carry out contacts in a live way where the health of residents has not been compromised. I myself have seen in a number of homes how things are going, and I have been able to make sure that the teams are aware of at home of all that you have raised in your question, and that they allow for the most normal contact of the elderly in their homes with their relatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u185	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Muršič, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Minister. You have shown me very vividly how your view of visiting nursing homes works, for which I sincerely thank you. Of course videoconferences, phone calls, I welcome all this very much, but you have not answered the key question I have asked you; and I have asked only and only one question: Will you take into account the proposal of the Silver Thread, which proposes to include in the seventh antikron law the coverage of the costs of protective equipment and rapid tests for relatives or relatives who wish to visit their relatives in their homes for the elderly? That was my key question. Only yes or no answer was needed. I certainly thank you for showing you very much and clearly, which is indeed a sincere thanks, that you have in fact updated these instructions for visits in nursing homes, because the elderly or relatives also turn to us, Members, that they are simply in a vicious circle. This protective equipment — this basic mask, gloves — still goes somehow to get them, but then to get these quick tests themselves, that is a cost. That is why I appeal to you to somehow hear the proposal of the Silver Thread and try to include this, for the country, almost minimal cost in this seventh anti-Korona package. For with this you will enable and also relieve the employees of the homes for the elderly, who must say that they are extremely burdened and are doing a very deep gift in this place, to do this really good work and actually keep these elderly in good living in these homes. I just want to ask you one question: yes or no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member Muršič, for this additional question, a supplementary question. As I mentioned earlier, we have actually taken on a lot of costs in the past CAPs. Among other things, personal protective equipment, where we have taken over the cost of one month's strategic reserve of personal protective equipment and reimbursement of costs for personal protective equipment and disinfectants for the work of employees in red and grey zones. We have earmarked €26 million for human resources reinforcements, which are already in operation or already in effect, i.e. between 22 August and 31 October 367 new employment contracts, 134 participants participating on average in the public works programme each month. Over 5,000 working hours were carried out on a temporary and temporary basis, and over 72 thousand working hours were carried out by students and students of health care. To mention the additional payments provided to employees for additives for work in grey and red zones, for work in risky situations and for displaced workers. Also, what you have mentioned, which is very important, is the organisation and reimbursement of the rental costs and the material costs for the outer red zones, and also the white zones, we have provided from the budget. With regard to medical facilities, I must mention that I am particularly grateful to Termam Topolšica, who have made their capacity available generously. In addition, some others, namely the Centre for School and Educational Activities; House of Paraplegics, Pacug; House of Vidmu, Illyrian Bistrica; Cultural House of Slavina near Postojna, other sports facilities and others. With regard to other hotel capacities: the Section of the Ministry of Defence or Civil Protection, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour has reviewed all these capacities and since the Ministry of Health or the medical profession has taken responsibility for deciding on the appropriateness of these accommodations, it has been found for various reasons, among other things, that it may seem banal in most of these capacities to be itisone, which cannot be disinfected and is not suitable for elderly people who have, say, respiratory problems. Regarding the charging of personal protective equipment to the owners, the Ministry of Labour, my ministry, has called on all homes for the elderly not to charge their relatives and visitors. In PKP5, we have ensured co-financing of strategic stocks, we have taken on a lot of financial burdens and due to the above-mentioned home security equipment is expected [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Mursic, would you like a procedural proposal? No, no, no. We're moving on. Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs Violeta Tomić. She will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Jerne Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u190	Nice greetings to all present and to you, Mr. Secretary! I ask you about the sale of Luke Koper, because I must remind you that it has only been two years since we took a breath from the first secret agreement of Mir Cerar with Hungary, whereby a beautiful piece of the area of the port of Koper, as defined in the State Spatial Plan, and part of the ownership of the company 2TKK, the second track, was donated to the neighbouring country of Hungary, despite the fact that Luke is always lacking in surface space and is fighting for every meter, which is even more out of the absurdity of the intended land of Orban. It is more than clear that under the rhetoric of interstate economic cooperation, Orban's territorial appetites and the march on Slovenian land are hidden, especially in exclusive access to the Slovenian sea, which would be achieved by having access to the second route of the port of Koper. We also know that what the map of Great Hungary paints, and that doesn't bother anyone. Such trades have such dramatic consequences not only for Luka Koper and for the region but also for the whole country. The Hungarian loan, the capital of 2TKK, would be paid by Luka Koper, the Slovenian Railways, the Automobile and others through a fee for the construction of the second track, which is already being paid today. Let me remind you that the main competitive advantages of our only cargo port are free access to the sea, the unique geostrategic position of the port of Cyprus and the interesting neutral position of the port of Koper, which allows for equal treatment of all business partners. For this reason, trade in the Slovenian Sea and central public rail infrastructure, which depends on thousands of jobs in Luka Koper, Slovenian Railways and many other companies operating in the trade and logistics and transport industry, have recently been severely condemned in the Zeravist Maritime Activities Union. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: What will you do as a department minister to protect national interest and jobs in Luka Koper? Will you respect the already accepted and approved financial structure that does not provide for the Hungarian cartridge? Will you advocate the early construction of the necessary second track without the financial contributions of foreign countries and private capital and the modernisation of the entire rail network? I also want to know: What does this mean in the light of the sale of a significant part of the freight transport of Slovenian railways? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u191	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The port of Koper and the second track are inseparably connected and if our port of Koper is definitely a window into the world, then the second track is a function of this. We're aware of that. The second track and Luka Koper are not only strategically important for Slovenia. My wish as competent minister is that Luka Koper is also a strategic port for the icy states. We make container shipments from the port of Koper in over 60 percent for the icy states. If we give up on this, the last countries, that means that we have enough Marine Isol, which I do not think is in your interest, Madam Member. The port of Koper can do much more and no one talks about any part of the territory of the port of Koper being sold to any icy state. Nobody says that. Let me say that 14 days ago we made a very good deal, buying land by the state from the municipality of Ankara for a few ten thousand meters of new square meters, new areas that could be used by the port. These negotiations have also been held for more than 10 years. Finally, now that I am the Minister, we have also realized them. The financial structure shall in no way be compromised. This has been adopted and is also foreseen by the icy countries. No one's threatening anything or anything that's been standing up so far. As far as the second track is concerned, this new track is to say that within 14 days you will have Members at your disposal – first of all the Government and then the Members – the law that will define is to be supplemented by a law that will complement and define the second track that we concluded in 2018. We've decided to go into this story and we're preparing it now. So there's no danger. But we want to make Luca Koper even bigger in this tight competition. Let me just remind you that the North Adriatic harbour competition is very, very large. We've got Luca Trieste on one side. Let me remind you, two months ago, Hamburg Hafen purchased a container terminal called Luke Trieste. The container terminal of Luke Rijeka is also being broadcast at this time. This technology is very active and we must have frozen countries for our partner countries. You speak here and point out only one back state; I, as a competent and responsible minister and as a responsible citizen, have them in front of me anymore and I do not want to expose just one like you and play some politics out of it, but look at the broader picture that Luka Koper will continue to take the lead in competition in the North Adriatic. However, if you think that Slovenia can be satisfied with this, our capacity is too small. This is why we are developing not only this primary part, the port as such, but, indeed, we are available to investors and all others for the organisation and implementation of logistics activities, in particular logistics warehouses, multimodal logistics centres that could be in Sežana – in Sežana we already have one of the investors – we could be in Maribor around Maribor Airport, in Beltinci, where there is already a concession area of the port of Koper and so on. Thus we in Austria have two large icy warehouses; one is in Beljak, it is being built, it is also building, and the other in Graz, which will soon come to Šentilje. Here we have to ask ourselves what we missed, that the logistics flows go around us. Let me remind you, this same country, which you mention several times, bought for 100 million euro of the coast in Trieste two years ago, but they are not shouting that we are masters in Slovenia, but they are talking about wanting to get logistic flows. What's in my interest? It's in my interest that Luka Koper is our pride, our window into the world, and that's it. And that it develops and that it is a primary and strategic port for several countries, not only for Slovenia; that it is a strategic port for Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, also Hungary, Ukraine, if you want, Bavaria and we have these opportunities and the second track is in function of this, and we give no one for free, we do not sell, but we aim to develop Luka Koper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Tomić, would you like a word to complete the answer? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u194	Of course, Minister, that's all well and good, but we're talking about two very different things. I'm talking about the ownership of Luke Koper and whether we need Hungarian co-ownership, and you're talking about Luka Koper being a window into the world and, of course, it's not just for Slovenia, it has to be for other frozen countries. But if that's why we sell out what we have, we can talk here and I'm interested in your decision. For you know, Luka Koper is one of the few branches that survived the privatisation campaign carried out in the previous decade in this region by the Timer, Lošin, Bavčar and other political managers who were responsible for the sale of the social property that made the mountain. We know we've lost a lot of jobs and so on. I summarise this according to the Žerjavist Syndicate, which says that this has caused terrible unemployment and that Luka has defended, above all, the unity of employees of pensioners, local residents and we, too, in Levica, have worked hard and fought against the efforts of your predecessor, Minister Gasperšič, to disintegrate and privatise Luka Koper. In short, Luka Koper is a traditionally respected company among business partners from around the world, especially in Central and Eastern European countries, where they find a reliable and quality entry point to their markets. And it's been operating for 60 years as essentially the best port in the North Adriatic. That's why I'm asking you: Will the state as the largest owner try to allow Luke Koper to develop as smoothly as possible in line with environmental constraints, or will the state of development block the account of the interests of Orbanov Hungary? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u196	I don't know where you read this, but Luke Koper's property is what it is. Nowhere in the last 14 days has anyone been mentioned to buy, especially Hungary — any shares of Luke Koper. So everything stays the way it is, I'm not gonna talk about cranes. I think we have very clear governance, who manages a company owned by the state, who is the assembly, we have SDH and, of course, we have unions that have to be responsible for their work and do their job, not the company's management. But okay, this is a discussion for another time. So about selling that we want to sell Luca Koper to Hungary and so on, this is a totally lame spin, which is a step away from being able to talk about the serious problems that are ahead of Luka Koper and are the problems in the light that, for example, one of the biggest European ports bought three months ago, Hamburg Hafen, the terminal in Trieste, and that goes, say, Rijeka terminal now into concession. But once again, it is not the same as our cranes, we are the master in Slovenia, because he wonders how to make this circuit – what? This moment, when a ship comes to the Adriatic Sea, a ship over Suez, and turns towards Trieste or Koper, or forward towards Hamburg, has a shorter route here for about 5 days and a half. That's what the North Atlantic ports are thinking about when we're looking for our partners in the North Adriatic. The only question is, could they do anything to get as many Bavarian cargo as possible or to take the German cargo to Luka Koper, but not to have these ships walking around in Hamburg and then train compositions against Bavaria? What can we do here — this is a key question — to capture logistics flows? This is a key challenge when competition in the northern Adriatic has really begun to deteriorate because of the friction and geopolitical situation towards China, the United States and so on. These challenges are indeed some, let's say that we do have one debate in Parliament about what is ahead. [[…]] Not only towards Luke Koper, but even about the logistics flows. I'll tell you one more time, and I'll conclude with that. Look, even under this government, Luka Koper is a strategic port, and I wish it wasn't just a strategic port for our country, but for the frozen states, this moment. You mentioned the Hungarians entering Luke Koper's equity, that's fake news, that's not true. Okay? It's over.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u198	I suggest that we discuss this at the next meeting, because if you say that Hungary does not enter the ownership office of Luka Koper in any way – I am pleased. But look, at the time of the epidemic, we heard and in the media, tell me that this is fake news, that the country sold quite a bit of freight traffic, which, you know, is very profitable. So, the way we have our assets, it's a big question. You asked rhetorical questions, but you didn't give me the right answer to any of my questions. So I suggest we talk about this, because we went like two cats around a hot mess, but we didn't catch this and the media really to tell me: Will you respect the already accepted and approved financial structure that does not provide for the Hungarian cartridge? You're nodding, and I hope that's a yes. Will you advocate for the early construction of the necessary second track without the financial contributions of foreign countries and private capital and the modernisation of the entire rail network? For we know that we can do this without the financial contribution of others and that we can market it ourselves. And this does not mean that we do not cooperate with them, but it is the vital interest of our country and for preserving jobs and for logistics, which should remain ours, that we finance ourselves and have our own network. I also asked you: What does that mean in the light of this sales of rail freight? Where's he going? What else are we gonna sell? What else will be ours? This is where my question went. Certainly not, however, whether we will cooperate or be competitive. So I ask for a discussion under the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Marko Bandelli has the floor to ask Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u200	Thank you, President, President. The Honourable Minister, one of the tasks, if we say so, of the Section for the Control and Control of this Covid-19 Epidemic is also to prepare expert bases, opinions and proposals for action for the needs of the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I want to know: On what professional basis are restrictive measures based or are these professional bases documented? That's another thing. I'm also curious: What do you think is behind the failure to act and such a high mortality rate? Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Bandelli. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you for asking. Say good-bye to everyone again! Of course, the professional basis is documented and based on several factors. Indeed, we all probably agree that without measures and without those criteria, we could not control such an epidemic to the very least. In fact, in the short run, half the population would be infected. In this case, you can imagine, for example, that out of a million Slovenians, about 5 to 7 percent would need to be hospitalized and, of course, the matter would not have gone out in any case. So there is no doubt about the measures here, they are necessary. And the countries that tried without just turned back in the direction of action. On what basis are measures taken or what is it? We need to know that today, of course, after this beginning a year or nine months ago, the covid is slightly more familiar with the disease than it was at the start. Instead, the criteria for communicable diseases were in place and some new knowledge was added and measures could be modified on the basis of them. Of course, in the first place, what Slovenia and the expert group are monitoring, are international recommendations. Here I am thinking about the European Commission, not least the World Health Organization and what is even closer to us and also within Europe is the criteria and criteria, but the European Centre for Infectious Diseases, which informs and communicates what measures are appropriate. Then there is professional literature, such as mask information or distance, for example, a study in the American magazine Lancet. This is a recognised professional magazine where the distance was studied by 18,000 participants and the use of masks to 12,000 and the effects found, how much they contribute and help to improve the situation or prevent the epidemic. Of course, the data is such that they speak in favor of all of this. Then we also monitor the same situation in other countries, on the one hand, the epidemiological situation, the measures taken and the results taken. Which is not necessarily always in perfect correlation, because it depends only on respect for measures — among other things — but, in fact, it is not about inventing things that each country would do in its own way or otherwise. And of course, the expert group, I can say, we have experts who are the highest in Slovenia and with whom we consult and who work in this work. Of course, they also collect information both from abroad and from professional literature, and on this basis they propose all the relevant proposals, which is recorded, which is documented and, of course, not least is effective enough at most ends. You asked me below about the lack of action. It would be hard to say that we are talking about not working, but we are talking about, of course, a worse operation than perhaps in some other countries. For example, if I look at it, we have taken practically the same measures before Austria, on 16 November, and have achieved with them, as we expected in two to three weeks a significant reduction in the number of infected people. In fact, from a thousand and a few numbers down to 600, we regret this number — otherwise the curve has become generalized, there is no increase, or we are close to it, because if the measures were not taken, today we would not need a thousand 300 beds in hospitals, but three thousand. And we'd have gotten to the upper limit in the health system. Then where are the other reasons? One reason that seems important to me is the wrong way of communicating, it's people, it's misrepresentation, we don't know how to motivate people, it's enough to convince them that it makes sense. On the other hand, there is, of course, a lack of respect for measures. We have also done additional surveys here, for whatever reason, to what extent. According to these surveys, of course, it is not surprising that we have not been effective to this extent. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, your time has run out. Mr. Bandelli, you have a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u204	Yes, thank you. I expected that answer, but more specifically. I mean, we need to know something that we really are one of the most affected countries with this epidemic. Today we heard the President of the Government deny this matter that it is not true. We all heard him say that. But see, according to data also Coronavirus and Pandemic Data Explorer, this data is from December 1st, it is now said, a little while ago, that the daily data obtained from Johns Hopkins University, this number of deaths in Slovenia on a seven-day average is 23 per million people. That's what they say. We have an extremely high average. I'm also interested in the lack of action. These measures may work, but we have the wrong system of testing or keeping records as such. I'm not going to ask another question because I'm not allowed to. I'm just going to explain the point. So, my guess is, we're probably testing the same people in DSO over and over again. And then the same ones that are positive, which are not yet negative, can fall into this statistic. It is likely that the numbering of these people is wrong, and that is why it shows us so much, because yesterday it was either 30 percent or yesterday's 30 percent, which is again almost impossible, as far as that is concerned. Such an intervention here in the freedom of an individual, Minister; see, it will now be mandatory to use voluntary application. Where did we see this thing here? I mean, how do you understand that something can't be here? We know it's a voluntary application.Oh, my God! [[…]] Even this high mortality, if you say, because I think we're the only ones who record death after covido-19 also people who didn't really die from covido-19, could only have been with what needed to be done. [[…]] But then we put them all in one basket and you give us numbers that then show us abroad in a different way – wrong thinking. I'm just thinking that because people are wondering how that's possible. We've been in lockdown for two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u206	I think we're doing the right thing. Of course, there are more reasons why the situation is different. Unfortunately, there is little time for such a discussion, but in spite of everything. On the one hand, we have the age structure of society. In fact, Slovenia is among the oldest populations in Europe and, of course, covid are direct, as well as age-related mortality. Then go home. In Slovenia, many of the previous century – by way of operation and by staff capacity – are overcrowded – and on the other hand, there are too few professional staff that you can't get quickly. Then the spread of the infection. Every 25. According to today's data, Slovenians are infected, which means that, of course, there is also a high level of infection within the home, within the employees in particular, and this should apply to health care, so that it should also apply to homes, i.e. significantly more intrusions from this address, because it is very difficult to prevent at least those asymptomatic who spread the infection. And as you yourself mentioned, even the wrong records. Of course, there is a big difference between whether someone dies due to covid or parallel to covid and since in homes the age structure is about 85 years old, of course many patients with multiple diseases. The data we provide are provided on the basis of daily mortality only by the number of hospitals, because we are working to ensure a sufficient number of beds while real data are delayed; what the National Institute for Public Health is doing on the basis of naturally completed death certificates, where diagnosis is recorded and also parallel diagnosis and cause of death is also direct. Thus, in this part, we have probably gone too closely to the daily data required, not to the NIJS data with a delay, which is the only correct in essence as to the cause of mortality. At this point, we are really at the top, looking at the last two or three months, while the annual average is somewhere in the middle, which is a bad comfort. There's definitely too many people dying. The theme is really complex from this title so that we can get everything right now. But there are many reasons, and I continue to stress: this epidemic has captured and affected the two systems that have been most neglected; homes and, last but not least, health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u207	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bandelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u208	Thank you, Minister. You figured it out yourself. Indeed, the darkness is so complex that in a few minutes it cannot be answered immediately. I think it's very important that one day people really know what's going on. You know, I'll tell you one more thing, one more case, due to respect for the data, I can't say by name. But I'm talking about one home for the elderly where there hasn't been a single case for a month. And people died, but they die, like everyone else in nursing homes, they're old people, which they are, but one patient came, if I said one degent with a covid inside. They found out! From that day on, everyone who died wrote to them that they had died of covid-19. Here I say, indeed, because I have a case in relation, so more than that, this matter can't be serious. Then here I wonder how real these recorded data are. You also gave me a nice answer here. You said that there were mistakes in keeping these records. But that's a shame, because abroad shows us in a different way, which is also recorded by other data going abroad than those that we are writing here in Slovenia. This was my question in writing, in which you also answered me that it was so. You know, then we wonder if all these measures are in any way necessary to guide them in this way. Now we will release some activities, at this moment is one famous, Novica Mihajlović, a journalist from Del who asks himself – today I read it right – he said, now we will open locations where we will practically squeeze mosses, in our own words, but we will not open a construction shop where a man buys two bags of cement, where there are no people in it; you see, it is not. I don't know why there's so much resistance to such stores that are urgently needed, even for those who will be at home all over the holidays, which is what we're getting ready to do. So I see some illogicality in these decisions, because I don't know who's making the decisions. And everything here then comes to record what I originally gave this question as a basis, is the reason why the measures are not working. That's what was the fundamental question here, which you partly answered me. In light of this, I think it is right, as you yourself have mentioned, that too little has been done here, I think it is right to hold one debate under Article 246. I hope that this would be accepted on both sides to clear things up once and for all, to see the truth – I am not the one, you know, protecting as systems of conspiracy on Facebook. I don't care what I see, because the problems are real and we have to stick to the measures, because I think it's the only option that we can slowly eradicate this disease, if we say so. But there are certain questions that we are asking ourselves and need answers, not on TV in two minutes, a minute and a half, but really one open debate in the National Assembly for all Slovenes. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Edvard Paulič will also ask the Minister of Health, Mr Tomaž Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u210	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. A good week ago, the World Health Organisation expressed its opposition to the imposition of mandatory vaccination against covid-19, while recognizing that it will not be easy to convince the general public that it should be vaccinated when the vaccine is available. This is certainly a tougher way to dissipate the population, and the basic prerequisite is public confidence. And in Slovenia we have an obvious problem of communication. We probably all remember the conflicting statements made by the government representatives on the same subject, sometimes even on the same day. We may recall violations of the rules adopted by the Government itself, and these government representatives have violated them. If I make another fresh case, the government is 3. 12. adopt and make public the release of measures, and it is once again discussed that certain measures will be released past this timeline and beyond the conditions laid down. For example, we can read Mrs Beović's statement saying that trade should be open at the same time as schools are opened. This is once again contrary to the time-frame adopted for the release of measures. Well, it's no wonder people lost confidence. This is what Minister Restorationšek recently said when I quote part of his statement: “We simply have to admit that we are on a strategic level in a blind alley. The epidemic has now developed mainly into a psychological crisis of trust. It is not enough that we have good measures in theory and on paper, but that people also have to respect them in practice. To achieve this, we need to gain people's confidence." And this mistrust is also reflected in vaccination-related surveys. According to some surveys, vaccinations are expected to be significantly less than half of the population. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: In what way will you gain people’s confidence? We know that at least 60% of transplantation is required for the positive effect of vaccination. I'm asking: What will we do if we fail to achieve proper grafting? What measures will remain in force in this case? I'm talking about wearing masks, limiting movement. Do you already have any possible scenarios of action based on the percentage of vaccination when the vaccine is, of course, available?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u212	Thank you very much again, Madam Vice President. Thank you for asking. The fact is that this is the basis, let it be for vaccination, let it be for taking measures, let it be for anything, not only treatment, but, of course, trust. Trust and conviction, of course, that the matter takes place in some appropriate, safe, reliable way and that you know what you are doing. It is said that it is known who is leading the matter and that it is taking place in accordance with some of the professional guidelines. On the other hand, we need to know that there is no island here, no particularity, especially as regards vaccination. Most European countries have concerns, movements that are organised and are convinced that vaccination is not necessary. While, on the other hand, we also know from years of experience that in the past, of course, there have been many outbreaks of infectious diseases and vaccinations were the ones that have saved and calmed the issue and society has been able to recover normally. It is too little to realize that some unvaccinated people can walk around and be healthy because they do so at the expense of those who are vaccinated to a greater extent. However, even if I look at the experience of these measures, of course, it is a real experience that it will actually be necessary to include the right experts and the right strategy to convince people that vaccination is meaningful. For the time being, of course, given that some are applying and so on, the interest is of course demonstrated, and so are we, before providing and negotiating a common European invitation to tender in which we participate and in which we have reserved 60 per cent of the population somewhere, and we have also checked at that time among the population, what the interest in these vaccines is. Of course, we have chosen the path that we thought was safe, which is the European Commission. And the European Medicines Agency is undoubtedly the one who ensures that these vaccines will be of good quality, that they will be safe, that people can use them and that they go beyond all normal stages and that we have not deliberately decided on any other routes where mistrust is still relatively greater in this vaccination. So if I look from the point of view of the Ministry of Health that the first thing is, of course, ensuring sufficient amounts of safe vaccines and all the procedures necessary to do so. That is why we have also adopted, on the basis of the European Commission's strategy, our national, which includes, last but not least, monitoring of safety and quality and so on in addition to the implementation work itself. And on the other hand, as we say, I think that without the participation of the people we're going to have to attract, at least in a certain segment, there will be problems. I think that not so much in the area of critical part of the population, says older, healthcare workers, chronic patients and so on, but in those who are also now experiencing, like, let's say, a non-hazardous disease, some do not believe it. If fear or lack of confidence in vaccination is involved, a certain percentage will certainly not take that into account. Nevertheless, I think we still have some time available to start these actions, and we have started. The first vaccines, in very small quantities, are likely to be available by the end of the year. I'm counting on them to be used primarily to vaccinate the elderly in their homes, the most endangered ones, thereby reducing mortality in that place, and then the rest of the population. However, it is necessary to know that measures will be necessary for a longer period of time if a sufficient population is not vaccinated. And that we're hurting ourselves here with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Paulich, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u214	Thanks again. I agree, trust is crucial or one of the key conditions. However, the second key condition is certainly proper logistics and the preparation for vaccination itself. You mentioned the covid-19 vaccination strategy earlier. I have looked at this strategy, and at least in my opinion it is very generally written. Predicting three stages of vaccination. It is said as far as vaccination sites are concerned, and as well as the priority order as you have already mentioned, it is said that the vaccinations will first grow old in nursing homes, employees in healthcare establishments, then chronic patients over 60 years of age, and so on. But it will definitely take a lot of coordination, a lot of logistics, and I must say that the strategy is just one part of this whole story. I hope so much that we also have an implementation or some kind of action plan on how this vaccination will take place. We know, for example, that a particular type of vaccine will need to be stored at extremely low temperatures and then used within an appropriate short period of time. So I wish you all well in these preparations for the very execution of the vaccination.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u216	The strategy, general or under-general, see, is certainly based on the guidelines and precisely according to the guidelines of the European strategy. I think that it is sufficiently precise in all critical places, especially who will do what they will do, in what way, including procedures where they will be vaccinated, at least in the first types, and not least from the vaccine itself. It is also agreed and storage, says mainly this first vaccine, which should be available, Pfizer needs storage up to -80 degrees. We also know where, in what way, in which refrigerators this will be stored and how it will take place. We have issued a call, and finally a public call for mobile units to do so, to adapt the information system to be up-to-date and recorded, as it must be for each vaccination, and then, of course, to monitor data on possible side effects and so on. So I think that in this part we are ready to start vaccination, of course, as soon as the vaccine is available. I am certainly more concerned than this implementation work that we will be able to convince enough people that this is really necessary. We have also prepared infographics in this context of the launch of a campaign that will be published. I hope we will understand that this is the only way to normalise society, to normalise the situation in the country, including the health system, to avoid economic damage. I see again in health that problem, which is extremely big, is at this point really too much capacity for covid patients, waiting for everyone else, and until we can relax this share, we have really one difficult problem ahead of us. And really, at least I know personally that I'm going to be vaccinated. I know I'm going to try to do what I can to make people believe that, and of course I'm sure that's the only way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Minister, I'm still going back to the strategy you've adopted. As I mentioned earlier, different stages of vaccination and different groups are envisaged to be vaccinated. What I'm about to say — or I'm going to say, maybe I didn't take a good look at it, but I realized that in the first phase, vaccination is scheduled to take place in hospitals, in 20 vaccination centers in hospitals. At the same time, it is anticipated that caregivers will first be vaccinated in nursing homes. Which means there are now two options; one option I understand from the strategy is that it will be necessary to transport caregivers from home to hospital. The second option is that mobile units will be set up, which are otherwise recorded in the strategy, but only in the third phase. During the vaccination phase, selected doctors will be vaccinated and vaccination sites will also be organised in mobile units. That is why I said earlier that it is very important, for the first time, this well-done implementation strategy and perhaps this communication. Because when I went to read this, I explained to myself how the caregiver was going to drive to the hospital, which would be bad. We all know that these are elderly people who can't handle transportation. And as my colleague Bandelli mentioned earlier, this is one very important topic that awaits us. I therefore propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that a general discussion be held at the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Andrej Černigoj will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgorsk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u220	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia does not have many precious metals, but in my opinion it has quantitative and very quality very good wood. I can call that green gold. At the same time, I would like to point out that Slovenia also has very quality drinking water, which we must keep very safe. Slovenia, as I mentioned earlier, is a very forest country. We are in Europe by forestry in third place, immediately for Sweden and Finland. About a million 200 thousand hectares of forests cover over 58 percent of the entire area of our beloved country, which represents a little bit of playing with numbers, a little more than half a hectare per inhabitant. If we go to take a look, it is the largest of all neighbouring countries around the Republic of Slovenia. The largest percentage among forests is mainly beech, beech-beech and beech-bust forests, which are particularly suitable for production. I must say that I very much want to see if we can take any further steps to produce as much wood as possible at home. The value of forestry production in Slovenia in 2019 was slightly less than €550 million, but in recent years our forest has suffered quite a few natural disasters; the stomachs in the area of Postojna and so on, the skull across Slovenia as well as the drought have damaged forests, that major rehabilitations, especially sanitary cuts, were needed. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary: What is the stock of wood in regions in Slovenia? What is the stock of wood relative to the surface compared to other countries? How much did the stock of wood fall from 2014 to today, to 2020? Of course, we don't have all the data. From the point of view of good governance, I am interested in: Are quotas for cutting in Slovenian forests appropriate in the regions? In your opinion, should they be increased or reduced? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u222	Thank you so much for asking. Nice greetings, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Indeed, Slovenia is a rich country with wood, and even compared to other countries in the European Union, it is one of those that has the largest wood supply per unit of surface. Also with regard to the share itself, as Mr Member has already mentioned, we are the third country in Europe by proportion of forests across the country – a good 58 per cent of our country is covered by forests and we have wood stocks of about 356 million cubic metres in all these forests. So per hectare, because it's probably going to be easier to understand these numbers per unit of area, so per hectare, we have about 303 cubics of wood. The question of wood stocks across regions – forgive me for reading these numbers because they are numbers – are also linked to individual forestry areas. I must stress that their territorial organisation is not the same as the territorial organisation of the regions and therefore we have the data collected in these forestry areas. The largest timber stock is in the forest management area of Slovenj Gradec, where we are talking about 390 cubic metres per hectare. So we have the richest forests. Traces Nazarje – 373, Kranj – 369 cubic metres per hectare, Maribor – 368 cubic metres per hectare, Bled – 335 cubic metres per hectare, Kočevje – 330 cubic metres per hectare, Celje – 316 cubic metres, forest management area Novo mesto – 313 cubic metres per hectare, Postojna – 302 cubic metres per hectare, Murska Sobota – 283 cubic metres per hectare, Brežice – 282 cubic metres per hectare, Ljubljana – 279 cubic metres per hectare, Tolmin – 248 cubic metres per hectare and Sežana – 166 cubic metres per hectare. As much as you are interested in total quantities, I can also read this data, but I think that this unit per hectare is the most understandable one to compare best, because not all forestry areas are as large. If we compare ourselves with other countries, we can say that, as I mentioned earlier, Slovenia is one of the richest in terms of cubic wood stocks per hectare, the richest in the European Union and the richest in all countries of Europe as a continent immediately for Switzerland. Switzerland has annual stocks of about 348 cubic metres per hectare, Slovenia 303 cubic metres per hectare, so other countries have fewer, for example Austria – 298 cubic metres, Slovakia – 274 cubic metres and Greece are only and only 47 cubic metres per hectare. The average wood stock in European forests is 163 cubic metres per hectare. Now I have to find that it is very important in these cubicles per hectare that all forest owners are motivated to invest also in forestry work, because the Slovenian forest does not care about whether it grows on average 303 cubic metres per hectare of wood or quality forest varieties. We want the latter to be as many quality forest ranges as possible and therefore we are all happy to go to look at the wood exchange every year also in the spirit of motivation of our owners, why it is necessary to work in the forest not only when we go chopping. In the last years since 2014, wood reserves in the forests have increased despite the captures, despite the acorns, paddies, windshields, by about 10 million cubic metres. It is true, however, that the growth of wood stocks has slowed in these years. With regard to the quota for logging in Slovenian state forests, however, I must say that the quotas or quantities that we can cut are always determined on the basis of the forest management plan and at this very moment are open and will be open for several months in the new year of forestry plans for forestry areas. So the ten-year plans are now open and on this basis we will assess whether an intervention can be increased or reduced in the next decade. But we have another limitation, which we call LULUCF, which sets out for our country about 6.3 million cuts per year.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Let's keep asking questions. Ms Lidija Dijak Mirnik will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport to Dr Simoni Kustec. We're having trouble with the technique. Now it will be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings, Madam Minister, colleague, colleague! Yeah, the technical problem is obvious, and that's not why. Madam Minister, my question is this. Since the outbreak and your performance as Minister, I have addressed several questions, initiatives, including requests that I have asked you about the state of schools, about graduation, about the distance education course, about school education models, about equal treatment of students, about the organisation of school meals, about the return of students to student homes, about the re-opening of schools, about the holding of competitions during the epidemic; briefly, I have asked you a few questions. You haven't answered everything yet, but I hope you will, it was a huge deal. Before the fall vacations, you claimed that schools, kindergartens, colleges would remain open as long as the epidemiological situation allowed. And then what happened? You closed the schools and everything else, of course. This was not done by the vast majority of countries that had a similar or possibly worse epidemiological picture at the time, but, okay. That's when you decided that the schools should be closed and you did. I understand that, of course, you are following an epidemiological picture in the country when taking these measures, but I must warn you that you are the Minister of Education, Science and Sport. And your task, of course, is to care for all three areas: education, science and sport. And, of course, it is also your task that even in these times this education takes place smoothly, qualitatively and equally for all. Nevertheless, you decided at that time to close the whole thing down, even in those congregations where there were no or very low infections. Then there was that show called Target, where you showed with some graphs how infections between teachers spread more than among the rest of the population. Later, of course, it turned out that your claims were not the most persistent. And yet. We have a situation today that we still have a lot of problems in carrying out distance education, overcrowding of teachers, students, parents, technical problems, including lack of coverage with the Internet, which is actually one of these problems. So my first question: How, then, do you advocate providing equal opportunities or comparable education for all students and students?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mrs Divac Mirnik, thank you for the question. I would like to explain something to you about your questions and also to thank you for this constant concern that you are expressing in relation to the work you are doing in our department. Look, why the closure, that's a very common question. Why so quickly, and why did we go to such a decision to shut down schools and move to long - distance education? The medical picture, the epidemiological picture of us, was really difficult. In addition, this difficulty has in fact confirmed only the ability and competence of the current health system, how many patients can, in fact, be successfully provided with hospital care in the first place. Then, of course, we had to listen to this fact in some way also in our department, in a sector that is primarily a resource, which is primarily responsible for people, not only for their knowledge, but also for their health. And given that we and that we still have one of the best European long-distance education skills, it is also in some ways easier to decide that in the given situation this is the most optimal way to provide education throughout the country, in all regions, in every city, every smallest village under the same conditions for all. Your question: How do these equal conditions for all take place? I will tell you or transfer to you some statistical data, as well as the facts themselves, from which it can somehow be concluded first with regard to the equipment itself with the information and communication technology for distance education in general and what we have in all this time since spring and until this moment and continue to provide for these purposes. Then, of course, we talk a lot, and I will remember again, including the constant readiness and the completion of the technical guidelines, recommendations for the implementation of distance learning. Then again, I must remind you that a number of education has been carried out during this period of time, particularly at the level of the staff concerned with distance education itself. In short, I point out those activities, those measures that we strongly support, encourage and implement all the time, so that this distance education can run in the best possible way and, of course, under the same conditions for all. I certainly agree with you that not everyone has the same conditions for education, nor have they ever really had them. What is actually on the side of all of us now, starting with the school itself, with an individual teacher who recognizes such problems in a particular student with regard to distance education, is, of course, that he is paying attention in this regard and that he somehow responds in this regard. Unless otherwise indicated, even to a point at this so-called state level, where through Arnes in particular, as we say, we also provide all the necessary additional assistance with regard to equipment and standing guidelines where necessary. Some data, just to remind you; in the spring of 2020, we delivered 9 000 583 pieces of ICT equipment through the European SIO-2020 project and through our public agency Arnes, personal computers were these, monitors, laptops, tablets, projectors, then with additional co-modules, including European, schools with an additional 4 000 193 computers in September this year, and then added another million euros in spring to Arnes for infrastructure and electronic services. Then, in September, we managed from the integrated means to all schools to buy ICT equipment added by €3.2 million, these purchases are done by schools themselves. In September, then in October, we also spent €0.6 million on ICT equipment to public universities, and then via Arnes together with telephone providers, i.e. mobile operators. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. You're out of time. Mrs. Lidija Divac Mirnik, request for supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I'm not saying anything because it's commendable that you're all ICT equipment and everything you've provided. There is no question at all, because this is essential, because we are supposed to offer equal conditions to everyone, and of course this is not the case. As far as I'm concerned, my question is more crucial: Have you ever personally asked yourself what the consequences will be for generations of children and students, including those students who have been thrown out of college homes overnight, no matter what social picture they have at home, and no matter what educational opportunities they have at home? I believe that these consequences will be harmful and irreparable. That's why I'm interested, for the first time: How will you remedy this damage that has already been done to children and students? Second: Have you prepared models, plans, scenarios at the Ministry of Education, as to how things in the field of education will actually return to normal when this is possible or when you assess that students can go back to school? As far as I'm concerned yesterday, not tomorrow, but okay, it's just my humble personal opinion. And my third question: What have you done in the last month to improve the implementation of the educational process? Which of the models already presented by the Ministry do you anticipate foregone? Because the ministry, which presented some models, did not hold onto them, but closed them all overnight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The consequences of this epidemic will certainly be in the field of education and education, as in all other subsystems of our society. Above all, we will, and we will carry them, as individuals, as a society, as a community, at the end of the day, in some way as a country. Reliable in the field of education and education, these consequences are already perceived and logical in some way. Distance education is not the same as education in schools. Also, school education when it does not take place under optimal conditions, when you have many sick people, such as teachers, many sick children, does not take place under such conditions as normal days and weeks, when there are no such diseases. Here again, let me recall the information from the beginning of this year — January and February — the weeks when we recorded that 30 percent of all students or students were at home because of the so - called flu disease, and the question of what it was at that time. In short, I want to say that certainly, yes, concern must be and certainly this professional-pedagogical part is the one who devotes extraordinary, extreme attention already to where these flaws are, what is needed in an additional way when the children return to school, to educate or strengthen such knowledge. In this light, there are also guidelines prepared by the Education Institute, together with other experts, which substance and in what ways is now being conquered at the time of distance education in order to make this as successful as possible. In this sense, in fact, there is always some constant professional concern about this, including the assessments, and from this out also then so currently resists additional guidelines, recommendations, as of course when we return to distance education, even a little better, harder and more complete orientations of the same return and acquisition of knowledge. In the light of this, I myself signed three conclusions on the proposal of the General Education Council: for primary schools, for secondary schools and for music schools for a single evaluation period. Today, there have been guidelines on how to test this knowledge in some way at this time, so that it will be as much as possible, I will say, a reflection of these difficult circumstances and a time in which knowledge is now being conquered. As far as models are concerned – yes, you're right. Now we're on model D. This intermediate rate, going to model C, was unfortunately not possible in the given situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u231	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Madam Members, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u232	Of course, I have a procedural proposal. Madam Minister, I believe you are not pleased to hear these questions, but I am sorry that you did not answer my question in any very specific way, because the questions were actually very specific. But okay. Of course, it will be necessary to speak at one of the following meetings about when schools will open up and when that model C will be implemented, and of course my proposal to talk about it will have to be discussed. As for what you said in January or February; at the beginning of the year, my younger son’s class was more than 28 students in the ninth grade and education was going on normally. Now the question of what happened back then is, I don't know, I can't judge. But it would certainly make sense to think about it now, because the damage done to children is indescribable. And I'm not just talking about those kids with special needs, I'm talking about those kids who have, I say, decisions, even all the other things, even the talented ones. Kids are stagnating right now, and they've been in front of computers all day, which is bad for them. How they work – some are a little better, some are a little worse, because it depends, of course, on teachers, depending on how they have been educated in this area, and, of course, it also depends on how much energy they invest in this distance education. She's a niece in high school working all day from morning to evening, because she's in high school, which is very difficult. That's the way it is. If this is good, yes or no, for her, of course we can discuss this. Nevertheless, I would like an answer to what you have in mind, what we are going to do with these children, so that the generation will not actually be very — and already very — damaged, because that means we are losing them and that is a lot. I'm not even gonna go to the point where we don't know what's going to happen to prom yet. I suggested this to you last year, and I still have no answer to what will be done with this lovely graduation, how it will be adjusted, because when he talks to the students who teach, he calls the graduates who will go to the prom, half of them say that half of the students are depressed, and the other half are convinced that the prom is going to fall. It might make sense to consider allowing children to receive normal education, which can take place only in schools and only in schools. There is also socialisation, there are contacts, there are all things that support the development of children as such. But okay. You didn't tell me that. I hope you'll at least give me that in a written answer. Madam Vice-President, I propose that we, of course, decide on my question at one of the following meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u233	Thank you very much. We will decide on your issue in the framework of Thursday's vote. We're moving on. Mr. Jože Lenart has the floor. He will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Tomaž Gantar. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u234	Thank you, Madam President. We refer many questions to you these days, Minister of Respect, which is, of course, understandable in view of the prevailing health situation. See, employees in health care and also in nursing homes are in an unenviable position at the time of the epidemic. Prior to the epidemic, there was a shortage of staff in these activities to provide normal work. Work is now under way in emergency situations, as the government fell asleep during the summer or also dealt with other things. But you did not approach the preparation for the second wave that was foretold, despite your assurance that you would do so. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we have also repeatedly warned you that you need to prepare a plan for the smooth functioning of health care, even in the event of a relapse. However, Janez Janša’s situation got out of control. Not only tired, exhausted, humiliated, but now on the verge of patience, this has recently been heard from the types of employees in health homes and the elderly. What's more, it's not going to work unless it's different, we're going to stop work, they're saying in the Health and Social Welfare Syndicate. They point out that, despite excessive work in emergency situations, the management of the institution or government has not fulfilled its obligations following the measures taken by the CAP. The government has not found a way to pay back the unselfishness and all the efforts of these employees. Many of these employees still have not received a supplement to work in risky situations, not a covid supplement to work in the second wave, although for almost 9 months, but more intensely for the last two months, they have been working and are on the verge of capacity. If regional hospitals were prepared during the summer months to treat patients' cod, they would be better prepared if they were prepared and trained for three months by healthcare professionals and additional support staff. Now we have a health system on our knees, a health care system that can't handle the pressure, and a time bomb in the DSO, where the frame is also on the edge of capacity, warns the profession from all sides. On the other hand, we are witnessing warnings from the profession that there is a significant reduction in cancer, and the key preventive programs for early detection of this dangerous disease are being eliminated. The waiting species for specialist treatment will be extended and so on. Dear Minister: How are short-term measures implemented and how effective are short-term measures in the healthcare sector? Do you see a way out for improvement? What measures are you preparing for long-term solutions in this area? Employees in health care and nursing homes expect a clear answer because in this situation you put them in an unenviable position and have to see the light in the tunnel, otherwise they will lose hope [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Your time is up, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u236	Thanks again for the word and, of course, for the question. Greetings to all present! I have repeatedly pointed out, of course, that with the epidemic we have just stumbled upon unprepared health care and homes. For many years we have been waiting for the Long-Term Care Act, for many years we have been alerting us to the human resources problem outside the epidemic, and if anyone thinks that we can solve the human resources problem within two months, over the summer, he is sadly mistaken. It is a highly specialized work that needs long-term education, needs people, of course, who also make decisions and want to work in this area and, of course, here in the short term, there is no significant movement and I can say that we can forget about it immediately. We have taken some measures to help this state, to help improve it, and in part to do so. Indeed, it is necessary to know that the problem of covida and epidemics is a very hard one for significantly more efficient and more modern health systems. Recently, 200 hospitals in the United States have been closed down. As early as the spring work, a number of health systems have completely deteriorated, and if today I look at that we have an extremely difficult epidemiological situation and that the health system is still functioning and receiving patients – yes, I am grateful to all who are working in this area and who are responsible for not having a health breakdown in this situation, too, so far. Even at home, the Court of Auditors has already warned in its report that people are not employed at social work, at basic care, but used or used health workers for all jobs and worked with manna labour. Why is there a major problem especially with health care, whether in homes or in hospitals? It is said that because of the company’s attitude towards these jobs, it should be for payment or in any other area. Therefore, measures are said to be possible in the short term. In the short term, it is safe to respect the measures and reduce the epidemic or control that both homes and, of course, health workers will be significantly less burdened by those patients who are now added in addition to all others who need treatment. That's the first one. Another time. Of course, we need to know that even with a widespread infection — every 25 inhabitants should be infected — there are many infections within health care and among health workers. In the last week alone, I think there have been a thousand 238 infections among them, which means sick, which means isolation, quarantine, and, of course, a small number of employees. So, short-term control of the epidemic- Then the measures that we have already taken in the homes have been provided for additional resources for additional personnel. Unfortunately, there's nowhere to take him. Then in the hospital. We have redistributed the specialists, included concessionaires, closed down less urgent activities, such as, for example, emergency prevention at the primary level, so that, on the basis of the proposed package of legislation, these people can also move to more demanding jobs and unload everyone else. However, there is, of course, a limit to where this can be done and done and to solve the problem of lack of staff even in this way, of course, is not entirely possible. It is a long-term improvement in the conditions for these professions to become interesting for younger people. We know that for family medicine, it is only because they are overworked because they are underpaid because they cannot make progress and so on. Then, of course, urgent reforms and something else, because I'm running out of time. We need to know that we have also set up a mechanism to reward the more burdened. I will not now discuss whether he is always fair or unfair on a micro level, where it is decided, who and how he will receive it. It is my opinion, however, that, at a certain point, financial compensation for fatigue cannot replace it, and if people are not there, of course they suffer from regular programmes which they suffered before the epidemic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Of course, in the short term, there is probably no choice but to control the epidemic and thus to reduce the pressure on hospitals at this point, and we are holding our fists. For the long term, however, I had only expected some more concrete answers that the previous governments could not resolve. We know that Slovenia gives only 8 per cent of GDP in this distribution for health care. Our neighbouring countries, Austria and Germany, more than 10 or more than 11 percent, of course, with one higher GDP, also reached per capita. These are terrible differences. From this I would like you to provide an additional explanation here: What do you think about this distribution, or what can be done? Because otherwise, we know that investments and equipment are running out. Of course, I am also thinking in this direction, or I expect from you, that even at such a distribution, only 8 percent of GDP, what we achieve in Slovenia is that public health is the only thing we can achieve or now achieve this control. Other countries, if they had only so much at their disposal – the question if they could do so with other systems. That is why I also want your opinion: Will you continue to protect this public health care in view of this, and can such a situation be expected again in the future? In health, no one can guarantee that it wouldn't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u240	Thank you, too, for this additional question. I think that it has proved to be effective in this case also in the public health system, despite all the shortcomings that we have been alerting for a number of years within health care. We have been in this year, I hope to say, to a large extent, eliminating the anomalies of previous years, at least as regards the consideration of wages in service prices, the annex to the general agreement and the provision of better material conditions. And I would hope to say that at the beginning of the second year, more hospitals will operate successfully than in the last year without an epidemic on the basis of all the measures we have taken this year and provided funds for public institutions. On the other hand, this is the fact that the countries to which we compare are also giving twice as much money per capita. Like neighbouring Austria. Believe me, even in Austria, doctors and all healthcare professionals warned against releasing measures to avoid a breakdown of the health system. There's no big reserves there either. The difference is that more money really needs to be invested in health care, not only in wages, not only in this, but for the first time in more jobs, in better working conditions, in opportunities for development. In fact, we need to know that a young doctor who has been in school for 15 years wants to make progress in this place, and if he does not have these conditions, he decides to leave, while some at lower levels are leaving the profession. Therefore, reform is necessary, which we have not found consensus on in 20 years. Secondly, of course, better funding. I would be happy to see that proposals such as promotion, I don't know, contributing to health, where we are below average towards the EU, would be the right way, given that this is also the most solidarity way to raise money. Unfortunately, we have failed several times. Look, if I didn't believe that we'd be able to take any steps forward, I probably wouldn't have made up my mind, and I wouldn't be answering this question today because I wouldn't be here. It is so unfortunate that health care has been faced for too long with debates, with different views and on the other hand, what I have said many times that we have fewer public health care from this title every day. I hope that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Lenart, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u242	Somehow I understand that we have a model of a successful system, as you mention Austria, and we need to follow suit, so I somehow understand this answer of yours. Probably not just Austria, but some other country. Given the current nature of this area, where we can expect that it will not be settled for a long time, and also with these delays of reforms, I propose a general discussion at one of the next meetings or at the next meeting. Because I think that's when the topic will be real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Sutter's got a word for it. He will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, hello! From the first start or from the first closure of the company in order to prevent the spread of covid-19 infection to the present day, all sectors of the economy are most affected by the performance. Businesses involved in performing – and very important! — with which many self-employed persons have been associated, the anti-Korona action against public assembly has been the first to stop their activities. Now that the industry is closed, they also report a 98% loss of any opportunity to carry out their activities and will be the last to start their bicycles. This is the next cross for this story, and the largest share of self-employed or otherwise-employed workers is probably also involved. The collapse of the sector in their case is thus very shamelessly translated into a direct threat to their social situation and survival, and the relaunch of the work process is entirely dependent on these performing companies with which they cooperate and the industry is still and is on its knees all the time. According to some of the most optimistic forecasts of the epidemiological profession, public events could be re-emerged and re-emerged, and this is now a very optimistic forecast, normally revived in the summer of 2021, this is an optimistic forecast, it can be even worse, and this silence in the performance sector continues. I therefore ask you, first of all, about the state of affairs of the Minister: By what measures has MGRT so far provided for survival in performance activities or mitigation of the impact on companies in the performance sector? How now that you can watch nine months ago, do you assess the success of the measures — whatever they were? Second, the same question forward: What measures will the Ministry take to ensure the survival of companies and sectors of performance in the future, in view of the epidemiological picture envisaged? The question of self-employed people, who are legally also businesses and therefore also belong to your umbrella: What measures has MGRT provided for the survival of self-employed persons in the performance sector so far, and by what measures will the Ministry ensure the survival of these self-employed in future performance activities in view of the epidemiological picture envisaged? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u246	Dear President, honourable Member Primož Siter, Honourable National Assembly! Thank you for asking. So far, intervention laws have been focused mainly on – generally speaking, not only on this type of industry – preserving jobs and ensuring the liquidity of the economy. The key measure to preserve jobs in this area was the subsidisation of reduced working time, the reimbursement of the waiting allowance, the self-employed exceptional aid in the form of universal monthly basic income. This matter relates and we have specifically done for those self-employed who are not covered by the instrument of waiting for work. This instrument lasts and the government has the opportunity to extend it and we will do so, if necessary, by the summer of next year. In order to ensure liquidity, the Bank’s SID State Guarantees for credits, the possibility of deferral of taxes and repayment of credits and interest-free liquidity loans from the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and the Slovenian Regional Development Fund from Ribnica were enabled. The sixth anti-korona package, adopted at the end of November 2020, also made it possible to partially cover fixed costs. The combination of all these measures, which are comparable to those of the other Member States of the European Union, makes it possible for businesses to survive and to maintain jobs. PKP7 – we are concerned that there is still some kind of black fox or that someone has fallen out. In preparation, this seventh package aims to mitigate and reduce the consequences of the epidemic in the areas of economy, labour and labour relations from social protection and health care. Last weekend, the draft bill was also discussed by the Economic and Social Council. The adoption is foreseen by the end of 2020. However, from the point of view of aid to industry, the draft proposal for this Act provides for an amendment or supplement for activities falling from sales revenues, i.e. by more than 70 %. This applies, if I translate, to activities that have been closed, and in this industry happiness is similar if I say, as in the restaurant, tourism is the same. Such a high fall in income, it is said once again, has been banned by decree from work or from offering goods and services to consumers, namely tourism, hospitality, the meeting industry, trade – in one part. The proposed amendment provides that the amount of uncovered fixed costs up to EUR 2 000 per month shall be per employee or self-employed or associate, shareholder, cooperative founder or institution within a reasonable period of time, i.e. the last quarter of 2020. As employees, such employees shall be considered to be employed by the employment contract for an indefinite period of time and by fixed-term employees. Thus, we now use the term employees in the new law. We don't separate this, but we only figure out the average number of employees. This measure is specifically intended for your part of the area, as it is part of an economy that is most affected by tourism and hospitality, as you said. We will continue our efforts to prepare adapted measures for individual parts of the economy, and in particular to ensure that all spheres are launched in an appropriate and secure manner as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Sieter has the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I have to supplement you, Minister, actually. This is not the industry that has lost the most, it is essentially a sector that has lost everything, and this is also the main feature of this performance sector or the meeting industry, as you say yourself. Unlike most other activities, this is completely on your knees. During this time, in these last eight, nine months, both representatives of companies operating within this sector, as well as self-employed persons, have addressed the Ministry and called for such or other attention and assistance. Of course, the most worrying is the situation of self-employed people who are, let me say, at the bottom of this food chain. Technically, they're companies. Since the spring they have been excluded from the PKP packages and for the autumn they have been aligned with other industries that have not suffered so much damage. So my question is: Do you really understand the specificity of this sector and the problem of equalizing self-employed people in this sector with self-employed people in other sectors who have not suffered so much and the importance of actually treating them separately, with all the characteristics? The fact is that this industry is entirely on its knees, it has completely shut down that they are people who are fully on the road, that they are companies that are completely on their knees. I doubt that a rare enterprise in this industry or individual self-employed persons would have so much in the account that they could survive for a year or a half of this crisis without specific additional shocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u250	Thank you. There are some sectors that are completely closed, and this industry is one of them. Whatever we call it, it's a difficult situation. If you can't work, you can't get anything. But we are for this industry, which is not just made up of self-employed people — we both have to agree. In this industry, it is also about companies that have more employees, but are most affected again because the most vulnerable are those who are self-employed. This universal basic income measure covers this story of social security. It lasts until the end of this year and the Government has the opportunity to extend it by 6 months. That's what we're gonna do. So we're covering our backs and making it possible for the self-employed to survive. But there are still some ideas in the PKP7 that we want to do. It is not just about enabling the industry to survive now, but we must create the conditions for allowing the industry to engage actively in its activities in the meantime. One idea is to co-finance rapid covid tests so that this activity can be carried out in a different way. I must also say that we are particularly active here and are working with all stakeholders in the area through the Tourism Council, where there is also a representative of the industry meeting. We are here together looking for solutions because they are innovative because they are looking for an opportunity to work in these difficult conditions. And on this side, there will definitely be assistance from the State to provide the means to ensure that the activities to be carried out will be carried out in a safe way. In any case, I can say that we will continue to protect jobs in this sector, while also looking for solutions to help businesses and also self-employed people. But once again, we go in a row: we have self-employed espies, we have espies that have more employees, we have small, medium and even slightly larger companies, but they have a mixed story of activity, and one of them is in this part. I have met with representatives of the industry on my own several occasions, not to say that we have solved all the problems, but I can assure you that we have done everything we can to ensure that this industry will at least survive and so it will be in the future. We will continue to listen to them and try to take suggestions into account in the measures we are preparing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Comrade Siter, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I will, of course, ask the National Assembly to hold an extensive debate on this subject and to justify why. As I said before, as we both agree quickly, the Minister – a key part of the Slovenian economy – is an important factor both in tourism and in culture. Here I speak from small local events to some of the world's largest festivals. I hear you, Minister, have even visited MetalDays in Tolmin yourself – for example, one such event that lives throughout the region. And from small fireflies in a village to some avant-garde artistic performances, all of this covers this performance sector. This sector is on its knees, contractors, technical staff, entrepreneurs who organise things; in short, the industry is in collapse because of this specificity, as employees, self-employed and entrepreneurs report 90 plus a percentage of the downturn of activities and revenues. The additional blow here is also the fact that this industry is excessive or more than any other type of overworked, there is little in it, something you said that yes, but still a small number of proportionally employed people who would be rescued through the crisis, such as a compensation for waiting for work or some other measures under this heading. Here are musicians, players, tonic technicians, lanterns, producers, entrepreneurs who organize it and so on and so on. In fact, everyone considers the change to be survival, but the stock has run out and the crisis is essentially the longest for them. As a society, as a country, we will need a clear strategy on how to deal specifically with this industry, how to help them, not only to spend these months when they do not have income, but how to get together as soon as possible, perhaps at a time when we are just saying good-bye to the epidemic that they will not wait until the end. My call is, if this is PKP7 or any other measure that would come here to this industry opposite, I welcome such solutions, but they need to be heard. I know that both self-employed and those entrepreneurs in the meeting industry are turning to you. My call is for you to hear them and for the Council of State to hold a broader debate on this subject and therefore try to contribute to the resolution of the performance activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Boštjan Koražija will present an oral question to the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u254	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. The proposal for amendments to the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030 is discussed. This amendment amends the time of implementation of the Ptuj-Markowci Fast Road, i.e. essentially the Ptuj Oblast. The current resolution provides for implementation after 2025 and the draft amendments, which are also being discussed, record implementation after 2028 for this section of the road. A remark in this regard was also made to the mayors of Lower Podrav – I do not know if you have received, I hope you have received, Minister, 11. 12. – that for us who live there, such a change is totally unacceptable, especially for people who live directly along the Ormoška road, which carries all the weight of traffic towards Ormož. So if the fast road is built to the Markovci, then the connecting roads will be a narrow throat, which will mean even more traffic and an even more burdened environment. Therefore, as Minister of Infrastructure, I ask you: Why did the proposal for amendments result in this delay or an amendment to this date of implementation after 2028 for the section Ptuj-Markovci? Does this mean we'll be waiting for another 10 or more years for the bypass? Such a delay is consciously in breach of an agreement signed by your Ministry, together with Dars, DRSI and the affected municipalities in 2018, 11 July, that the road Ptuj-Markovci will be completed no later than 30 months after the construction of the Ormož-Marcovci road. During this new period, the section of Ptuj-Spuhlja and Puhlja-Markowci roads will also be used for freight transport. Since construction is envisaged for the Ormož-Markovci road until the end of 2024, the latest possible date of completion of the construction of the Ptuj-Markovci road is 2027. I want to know: Do you intend to withdraw unilaterally from the signed agreement? In this case, I'd like to know: Are you familiar with this joint proposal and are you supporting it? Based on this: Will the state follow the proposal to unify the local community from the Southern Pranavo on the elimination of variant S4, as we call it in this paper? The local community, as well as the mayors, have united for the variant of S5 – I don't know if you're familiar with it, I think you've been familiar with it. So I want to know: What's your opinion on this? So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u256	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Mr Member, for the question raised. We finally brought the situation under this government so far that we met in Ormož with all the mayors and with all the MPs sometime in June, and said that the quick Ormož-Ptuj road needs immediate law or that all the problems are too much and we are moving on. At this moment, let me tell you that the second stage of the call for tender is already under way for Ormož-Gorišnica, Gorišnica-Markovci. What has been discussed for 15 years now has finally come true, and we will finally start with parts soon. So, at the beginning of next year, I am counting on Dars to complete the public procurement procedure so that there will be no specific complaints. This is a section worth over 30 million euros. So the second stage of the invitation to tender only means the price of who is the best bidder. But we still need a building permit, of course, but we don't always wait for a building permit, and then we start with a call, but we do it in parallel, because we save it on time. Now you're essentially asking about this last section of Markovci-Ptuj. Here, let me tell you that I'm aware of the problem, what does that mean if there's a dead end on the Pooh Bridge. I promise you one thing that this stopper will not happen there, that the Puhov bridge will not be the main starting point then below, but that it is necessary to get the right variant. There were several variants, five potentially feasible alternative solutions to the new road connection were considered. The variant was the SS north of Zlatoličje, variant F4 and variant, which begins in the Dražnica split and so on, variant S5, which begins in the AC split Dražnica, variant J2 south, this variant begins with a switch in the AC connection of Lancova village. I'm also familiar with this letter from the mayors, we got it, we got it. Let me say that we are actively cooperating with all the mayors in this committee, but at the moment let me say that guidance is being obtained from the space regulators, on the basis of which more information will be obtained, so that three different variants can be determined – first of all, right - are being made on routes that will then also be included in the variant study itself. The most appropriate variant of the route will therefore be determined on the basis of verifications and proposals under the variant study. An inter-ministerial working group shall also be involved in coordinating the solutions in the DNP preparation process. My Secretary of State, Aleš Mihelič, is also a member of this Interdepartmental Working Group. The Ministry of Environment and Space also actively participates, including Dars, and I believe that we will get the right or appropriate option in due course. I will not argue that the best option is the one presented by the mayors. But I'm aware of the problem, if this is a variant of Nature, it's called J2, it's this southern version. I'm familiar with the financial means that means we're going to the cemetery, and the problem is, if we go to the S5, it's around. I believe that we will get the right option and then anchor a fast road where it is most necessary, or most appropriate, and also as quickly as possible. From no agreement does this government withdraw, and I say that within 30 months of the construction of Gorišnica we will start a second story and get the right solution here. What's in the deal is we're just gonna stick to it. These 30 months have been promised in the past, and I have been aware of this since June, when I was with the mayors, and we will do so, Mr Member. There's no problem here at all. Certainly Puhov bridge must not become a stopper on the other side of Ptuj and then spread the problem forward, but we must solve this story accordingly. Surely the story will be better resolved if we begin as soon as possible and then civil initiatives will not only have partial solutions in mind, but we will adequately resolve this story if we start the construction of Ormož-Marcovci, Markovci-Gorišnica as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u258	Madam President, once again, thank you for your word. Now you've made this very clear when you were in Ormož, and the media also reported in this direction, rather than being more inclined to this southern version. Now I don't know if I understand the whole situation. However, as you mentioned earlier, this section of Ormož-Markovci was to be completed in the years 2021-2024. That's why it doesn't make sense why after 2028 this section would be finished. That's also why the mayors suggested it. I hope that you will also follow this proposal or this, because in this case the local community and the representative or mayors of Lower Podravje will also be united with regard to this S5 version of the ptujska oblasta. But I do know that what you said would have to be debated or even discussed, because we are most afraid of this in Ptuj that it would really happen if it ended there, that the implementation works for Ormož-Markovci would end, say, in 2024 or 2025. Then it could take more than 3 years for the matter to be settled or this section to be settled. Even now, people on this Ormo road have been experiencing severe trauma, and there have been many health cases of recent times that have been of great concern. That is why I also appeal to you once again to sit down again, because I know that you will sit down with this working group, and that you are trying to find the best option and that you are really listening to the local community that has a proposal in this direction, which would also be the most favourable for the local community and for Natura 2000 in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u260	I don't favor any variants, nor this southern variant. But when I was with the mayors in Ormož, they were essentially for this southern variant, except for three, four or two, three, there was somewhere that they proposed one another. But okay, we're going to have to unify here, and I believe we're going to reach agreement. This letter of mayors – I am familiar with it, we will meet again with the mayors, meet again and somehow coordinate. 2028. This is such a fuse – do you understand? But if we get the option right away and the local community agrees with it, we get all the consent, then there's no problem. But surely, if we were to walk on Nature, it would take a long time to gain all our consent. Let me remind you of a story about Nature and it's the Shkofljica. You know, it takes a while. We are just for the remote Draženci or Circovce-Pince, which follows the same section that we are talking about now, the southern variant, we need a few years. Seven years, I think. As a result, if one chooses a year or a southern version and the local community is inclined to do so, then this is a problem because of other factors, not because of us. [[…]] If we put this in the space and if we get environmental permits right away, then there's no problem, Dars has the money reserved for this part of the building. Even if we start Ormož-Marcovci-Gorišnica, that is €40 million, a little less than €40 million, so for this other part I believe that money will be provided. But we really want to start construction as soon as possible. 2028 is some kind of security guard. But if we get the right route, we can start building right away. There is no problem because the purpose and will of this government, respected by Mr Boštjan, is to connect this section so that the people of Ormož will get to Ptuj as soon as possible and from Ptuj then forward to Ljubljana, but not on the dangerous road to Kidrič, from Kidrič forward to Slovenia Bistrica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u262	Mr President, thank you for the last time. That's the way it is. Just before you spoke – to conclude and to say that I suggest that a broader debate be held in the National Assembly. All I'd say is a closing speech in this direction. I also have an article here that is very good at being the best underground solution. It is said that the mayors of Lower Podravje and the local community have united themselves that S5 – the northern variant, the working name – is the most suitable for both mayors and the local community. This is also why I want a broader debate to take place in the National Assembly. However, it is true that we are basically the first representatives of all citizens, but when it comes to the local environment, it is also right that we citizens or also citizens and citizens demand that we do everything in our power to help solve local or municipal problems. And in this case, I know that a few more meetings will go through, and I hope and I wish that we would actually have a broader debate on this subject in the National Assembly. As noted earlier, people living along the Ormo road are truly traumatized, and I wish or wish that these things would be fixed as soon as possible or done in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Iva Dimic will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u264	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister! The current Criminal Procedure Act was adopted in 1994 and has undergone many amendments in subsequent years also due to the implementation of European legislation. This is also the current proposal for a new Law on Criminal Procedure, which is currently in the process of adoption. The constitutionality and legality of the individual provisions of this Act have also been examined on several occasions by the Constitutional Court, which has in recent years decided on the non-constitutional nature of individual articles of this Act. The last published judgment of the Constitutional Court of 9 December 2020 states a few days ago and establishes the unconstitutionality of the entire Criminal Procedure Act. In one year, the National Assembly must end unconstitutionality. In short, the applicable Criminal Procedure Act is obsolete, both professional and political. New systemic solutions are needed in several areas. Among them, it would highlight the transfer of the jurisdiction of the area of criminal investigation from the courts to the State Prosecutor's Office, which is one of the possibilities of achieving a faster course of criminal proceedings and preventing duplication of investigations. Madam Minister, I ask you: Is the new system law on the reform of criminal procedural law in preparation, and what is the timetable for the adoption of such a new law? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u266	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Madam Member, thank you very much for this question. I absolutely agree with you that the amendment has already been so much, it is said, that we are already following the letter on Wednesday. This means that this is the fifteenth innovation, which means that the law can be in itself unconsistent and unsystematic. However, it is one of the most demanding rules, for we know that criminal law is one that goes very deeply into man; and it must be and is structured by protecting, on the one hand, the one who could be innocently convicted and, on the other hand, by effectively sanctioning the one who is guilty. And we know that the interests here are extremely different, but the equality of weapons must be ensured, so that such a regulation is extremely difficult to reconcile. With regard to interventions, as you said, it is very often affected by coordination with European Union legislation, and often by the findings of the Constitutional Court. We are also implementing European legislation in the last novel to be adopted from the perspective of the European Public Prosecutor and at the same time the two decisions of the Constitutional Court. With regard to this decision, as you said, which has established the full unconstitutionality of the Criminal Procedure Act, let me say that they have established a legal void. When such a legal void is established, they shall find that the whole law is unconstitutional; however, they have indicated how this provision can be implemented and that this amendment can also be made in another regulation is not necessarily in the CAP. So how do we plan it? Our mandate is extremely short. We started it nine months ago. We also have a Presidency ahead of us and, as I said in the introduction, it takes an entire mandate to draw up such a regulation. That is why we are working to make this process as effective as possible at this time, because we know that the European Commission has also warned us in the rule of law report that there are still many challenges here. In this area, what we are currently doing is, above all, we want to establish an ARO-AMO institution that will allow faster collection of evidence; we will also work at the Presidency of the Council of the European Union on the adoption of an e-proof document, which will in fact make it possible to obtain more quickly evidence that is hidden abroad. Even though we are somehow resisting this at the Ministry of Justice, it will be necessary to give the police more powers, comparable to what they have in other countries. Of course, digitisation can make us faster and more effective, we know that we also have a greater record editing in the CAP, as well as a replacement for return to re-decision. What you are asking me in the 2030 Justice Strategy, which we are preparing, is the preparation of a new Penal Code, as we will also need to consider new concepts. As you said, for consideration of the criminal investigation, consideration should also be given to possible cabinet trials, concentrated procedures. Sometimes we also have 50 main hearings, but we want to have one, two hearings, and we want to make a decision faster. However, as far as the investigation is concerned, let me say that right now we have brought a very limited investigation into the European Prosecutor's Office and preserved the judge as a guarantor of rights, so that this will certainly show us whether this is the right path.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary. Let me put it this way: I read reports year after year on the functioning of the courts as well as the prosecution. And I have to say that every year it always gets stuck on the same thing, these are backlogs in the area of prosecution – banking crime, economic crime. Therefore, the profession also insists that, by transferring the criminal investigation from the courts to the State Prosecutor's Office, they certainly cut off this Gordy knot and in fact discharge some responsibility or assign responsibility, which is now practically after all the reports or even when we have meetings, transfers from the courts to the prosecution and from the prosecution to the court. It happens all the time, and the years run. We're not the worst, we're the worst, we're the worst, we're the worst. So I wanted an answer: Can We Expect the Future? I didn't understand from your question that this would be in the coming months, however. Will this be possible in the strategy, even though we are talking about a strategy for 10 years? It seems to me that there is something far-fetched, even from the point of view of the rule of law. The rule of law is also known how which trials have been brought before the courts. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u270	Thank you. Yes, we are particularly concerned with this issue within the framework of this Working Group on the Rule of Law, which addresses all the challenges identified by the European Commission, including the prosecution of banking and financial crime. What you're saying is that we have four institutes in the chain. First it's the police, then it's the D.A., then it's the investigation, then it's the court, and then it goes back to the D.A., and then it's the judge again. There is cooperation among them, but none of them have these accelerant tools to make sure that these procedures are short from the very beginning. Everyone is looking at essentially to pursue that goal, and in some ways also their statistics, but we are not looking at it in full. I agree with you that, even in the case of a judicial investigation, we have a judge who has twice; it is said that we have a judicial investigation; it would make sense for this judge to decide at the end whether or not to transfer one part to the prosecution. Of course, I still advocate that this protection of human rights remains, so that this safeguard guarantee is an investigative judge, but that individual investigative actions be carried out by the prosecutor. As I said, we are taking a number of measures in the working group that we can take right now because, as I said, this mandate is too short. In the next term, the new CAP, because the law itself does not provide all solutions. At least that shows me now that I am getting very familiar with myself, many times the u-factor is the man himself – how he actually acts, what he has to do with his affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u271	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Jože Lenart will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, I would like to move on to a specific question: Where are the priorities of the Slovenian economy from the current crisis? Where are the ways to restructure the economy as an opportunity for Slovenia? But if it develops a little bit. The Slovenian economy and a number of associations are already quite desperate when they constantly remind the government of the unsustainable situation in the face of constantly changing measures and Slovenia's vague vision of a way out of the crisis. We note that drastic measures and the closure of the economy are detrimental to economic operators who are obliged in the supply chain to comply with contractual obligations. If our companies are unable to comply with orders and commitments to customers, there will be a loss of confidence and of course a loss of business. Another problem I see in those activities of the economy, such as tourism and services that are practically stagnant and not working during this period. Entrepreneurship expects a clearer picture from the government and the competent ministries – where the opportunities of Slovenia are emerging from the crisis, which are expected to allow future growth and competitive advantage in this situation. The economy is aware that the current measures are intended to sustain and maintain jobs, but that is not enough. For long-term development, it is more important where the developmental breakthroughs of Slovenia are in the common markets according to our position, according to our natural characteristics. We are a small country, a small economy that must be even more open to the world. In September, MGRT prepared a draft Slovenian Industrial Strategy 2021-2030. At the same time, the Managers developed an action plan to increase productivity. Representatives of various sectors sent a call to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the digitisation of Slovenia, which is the most lagging in the field of public health, education, agriculture. Are these documents in line with the common strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? Is the economy, the public, familiar with the draft strategies? I am convinced that we can also take advantage of the current crisis as an advantage to restructure ourselves at this time where we are not competitive in the long term and to take advantage of the opportunities where we have the natural gifts offered by the strategic position. We are already being encouraged and offered our capital by individual activities. Will we therefore take certain areas into our own hands; will we allow foreign capital to enter these strategic areas? Are these also activities in the field of tourism, such as complementary activities in farms, rural areas, urban tourism of green and accessible Slovenian cities, which is already recognised as a hidden pearl of Slovenia? Are these the untapped potential and the return of lost jobs to the timber industry? The current government of Janez Janša says that the money is enough. So where are we going to invest? What are the priorities of the Slovenian economy from the current crisis? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u274	Dear President, honourable Member Jože Lenart, Honourable National Assembly! Thank you for asking. The government has so far done a great deal to ease the situation and help all segments of the country. Key measures have been taken to limit the epidemic and to deal with its consequences. The government is continuing its work. Key government activities to recover the Slovenian economy after the covida-19 epidemic will be linked to a new financial perspective. In Slovenia we are already preparing programming documents for the acquisition of funds under NextGenerationEU and the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027. The indicative value for Slovenia is EUR 12.2 billion or EUR 1.2 billion per year between 2020 and 2029. This will make new funds from the entire NextGenerationEU instrument 10.3 billion euros. €1.9 billion will be old resources, which means unspent funds in the current cohesion period. The new funds for Slovenia are covered by five different funds. We expect to obtain at least a third of these funds for development and innovation, digitisation, the circular economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, internationalisation and tourism for the economy. We want to be able to help develop and implement reform-oriented and, above all, investment projects in the direction of digitisation, a green and more resilient economy through the combination of non-refoulement and recovery. By means of the reconstruction and development plan, unlike cohesion, where we can only support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, we will also refer to large companies; we will strengthen the value chains and the participation of large companies with micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In particular, let me stress that with the nextGeneration EU in the coming years, we have an opportunity to achieve the structure of a higher value-added economy in real terms. Here I must say that this action plan, which you mentioned, has not been commissioned by the Association Manager, this is an order from our Ministry in cooperation with the Association Manager, is said to be in line with our development policy and produced by a group of experts from the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana. The estimated value of the new calls for proposals for 2021 will be €194 million, and in the framework of the planned calls for proposals we will promote the following areas: entrepreneurship, social entrepreneurship, regional development, tourism, digitalisation, research and development, internationalisation and the wood sector. Our long-term objective is to raise added value to the employee, attract investors to Slovenia who will invest in a green, sustainable and digitalised approach to work. When we talk about raising added value to an employee, we have in this earlier action plan the goal of halving the backlog for our northern neighbour within five years. If we are now at 43, 44 thousand, they are at 80,000; and in the next five years we want to halve this backlog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u276	Presidents, if you'll excuse me, would you just move on to the proposal for a broader debate? Is that allowed?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u277	First of all, you have a follow-up to the question if the minister answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u278	Yeah, it's a very complex question. That is why I would like to propose, because in this short period of time it is more difficult to answer all these questions, so my proposal is to hold one general debate. I think the situation is very topical for us and for entrepreneurship. And since they are public meetings, I propose that a general debate be held on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u279	Good, if you don't want any more questions. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask Health Minister Tomaž Gantar and Infrastructure Minister Jernej Vrtovac. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The national vaccination strategy, which was published in early December 2020, sets out recommendations for priority vaccination groups against covidu-19. I must welcome that we have finally adopted this strategy in a timely manner, because in individual groups it is a difficult process of disease and death, which is exponentially increasing with age. However, the risk is also higher in individual groups with certain chronic diseases. The national strategy sets out four priority groups. The first group are health workers, employees and providers in DSOs. The second group is then over 60 years of age and over. Of course, you will be vaccinated according to the availability of the vaccine, first the elderly over 80 or more. Then we have a third group, these are chronic patients under the age of 60. And then we have a fourth group – other emergency services such as staff in educational institutions, police, civil protection, the military, workers in the agricultural and food sectors. It's only the fifth group that we all belong to. However, none of these four priority groups include employees who are employed in key jobs in energy, in areas that provide smooth supply of electricity, natural gas, remote heating and also the management of radioactive waste. In these areas, professionals with special skills are employed and cannot be replaced in the event of a large number of covida-19 patients, as we all probably know. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, When will you contact the management of these companies and, together with them, at least for the first round of vaccination, prepare a priority plan for the vaccination of employees in these key energy sites? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u281	Thank you very much. First, Mr. Wrote. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u282	Thank you so much for asking. Thank God we finally have very serious plans on when to receive the vaccine and how the procedure will go. Thank you very much to all those who are working to do so. We are in daily contact with all directors – carriers of critical infrastructure, energy companies and so on. The strategy also includes group number 4, that is, other emergency services. We believe that workers of critical infrastructure, including energy, are included in this group. Critical infrastructure is more important, including energy. Group 4 also employs some employees in companies providing electricity, natural gas and also heat. These companies also have their own plans for continuous operation. And I have no doubt that they know within themselves who are the ones who would give them priority vaccinations, that is, which is this priority list. However, the number of these employees is not as high, ma'am, as is the case with the police or health care, that this would be a major problem. I remember the month of March, April, when we talked about how to test these people at the time, in the beginning, to have an uninterrupted supply of electricity. And we have done this very quickly together with the Ministry of Health and the National Institute for Public Health. Let me stress that these companies are always in contact with the NIJZ, including the Ministry of Health. I did not see the particular need to mediate what kind of order or list inside them would be, but these — I am sure — belong to Group 4 as an emergency service. And I know that's how they'll be treated.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u283	Thank you very much. And Minister Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u284	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that this area also belongs to critical infrastructure, as has been said; but the fact that we are looking at the epidemic today is indeed a large number of infected people, every 25. Slovenian. We are getting suggestions and wishes, and also on the basis of today's issues in the National Assembly, we actually know where the worst problems have been, which have been repeatedly exposed. In all this time, I have not received a particular complaint of any kind or any kind in this area, but that does not mean, I am sure that they face the same problem of infection among employees. However, I believe that work can be done in a way where they are more secure, partly from home, to a greater extent, and that they are successful in saving. It is also likely that the workforce in this area — and I should not be offended if I am wrong — is probably better than some mentioned earlier, given the conditions, according to wages and according to everything else. Probably, too, there's more to this address, which doesn't mean we're underestimating anyone. And under this category there is no doubt more, I'll say, investigative judges, prosecutors, prison guards and so on. It is practically a matter of a number of activities without which a society cannot go on for a long time. I'm sure at first they won't be among the first to receive the vaccine. Finally, about 5,000 doses were promised at the end of this year; perhaps later, because time is running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Ambassador, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u286	Thank you so much for the first part of the answer. Minister Gantar wants to continue a little bit, which is certainly good. I must say that I am pleased that you recognize that critical infrastructure needs to be included in these recommendations that you have; otherwise, I am disturbed that Minister Vrtovec mentioned that he is convinced that he belongs to the fourth group. If this fourth group were explicitly stated that energy is part of this story or that recommendation, they would not be talking about confidence today, but would belong to that group. If we want to have more than 60% of immunization and healthy people, we will really have to do everything we can to get enough of this vaccine. The interest of citizens and citizens – I think it was, you too, Minister, you can say – was amazing who wants to be vaccinated. In my opinion, all citizens and citizens want to be healthy, live in normal living conditions, because what we are living now is far from normal. However, I must say that we are patient, persistent, but the mental distress of individuals is immeasurable. Therefore, I am pleased to see that you recognize, because without critical infrastructure, without coverage in this segment, I cannot imagine at all, because energy, natural gas, remote heating, radioactive waste are key. Without electricity, we wouldn't be sitting here today, we wouldn't be talking, without natural gas or remote heating, some of us can't even have a warm home, and I don't want to talk about radioactive waste at all. But working from home is extremely difficult in these jobs, so it is crucial to include them in these recommendations for the creation of priority groups. Thank you so much for continuing the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u287	Thank you very much. First, I give my word to Minister Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u288	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, too, Mrs Muršič, for this additional question. I'd say as far as the desire for vaccination is concerned, of course, from your mouth into someone's ears above us. But most countries have and fear, at least Western European, a major problem in convincing people about the meaning of vaccination. This initial interest in an open application for applications is expected as usual. At first, of course, there is growth, then things calm down and we will see in time what it means. Above all, this is some way of recording and providing a single sequence over a longer period of time, with, of course, critical infrastructure taking precedence, and I am the subject of energy. However, the solution will, of course, be when sufficient vaccine is available. At first, no country will get enough. That is why the European Commission's strategy, which has proposed this progression or after these risk groups, is how vaccination is to be carried out; and we will also be making decisions on this basis in the start. It is said to be a vulnerable group, probably first these few doses, if we get them already this year, will get them in nursing homes that have not yet been infected or overrun, and then continue with healthcare professionals, where more than a thousand 200 have been infected in the last week. And this can actually pose a great threat to the functioning of the system. However, if there is a need or a particular failure in a particular area, I believe we can be so flexible that we can also ensure that we are trying to resolve the situation there. My concern for the longer term is, above all, not to achieve this 60% graft. The anti-vaccination movements are strong not only outside Slovenia, but also within our country; and this is also one of the reasons why we have gone on the safest route to purchase via the European Commission and through the European Medicines Agency in order to be trusted in the safety of the vaccine at a higher level. I hope we can do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Minister Gardener, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u290	Thank you. The emergency services are certainly also electrical distributors, dispatchers, and so on. And although they are not listed here in the recommendation under the heading – For example ; they certainly are in this part; because we cannot imagine that, for example, gas and electricity distributors would have a malfunctioned operation or that someone would be sick and then it would be all over. [[…]] Believe me, we're really trying to provide uninterrupted care here right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u292	Yeah, I see I've opened up quite an interesting subject. For starters, it didn't seem as interesting to me, but now I'm thinking more and more about it, and I realize that this is extremely important, because without this area, we can't imagine life at all without it. Therefore, I think it is important that we discuss this at the next meeting, because it may happen to us that we will have more infections in January and still this critical infrastructure will not belong to a higher priority group. And then I expect both ministers to have a thorough discussion with the directors and to make a strategy, so that those who work for these support services, so that we can be here today, too, will be given priority vaccination, so that we will have all this necessary structure that we urgently need for our operations. Therefore, it would seem to me that it would make sense for us to have a broader discussion of one of the next meetings or at the next session, that we will not be too late. Otherwise, I hope, Minister, that you will follow and talk to the directors, because I have not asked you this question because I would have an answer to this question, or that we would have already spoken to the directors. It seems that communication has probably creaked somewhere and has not been as glamorous as the energy directors would have wanted. So once again I appeal to both ministers to discuss, see where we are, how many of those should be given priority vaccinations; and, if necessary, also include them if we receive this vaccine in January, so that they will be vaccinated before, say, we who are sitting here. It takes a lot for us to get vaccinated, too, but without them, we wouldn't be here either. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Mr Primož Siter will ask the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u294	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, good evening! The Ministry of Culture, which is also responsible for questions relating to religious communities and the provision of religious freedom, has, according to media reports, replaced the leadership of the Office for Religious Communities and is planning its closure or transformation. The closure or transformation of this single state institution, which actually deals with the provision of religious freedom and equal treatment of all religious communities and believers, constitutes a direct slipway into the unequal treatment of, in particular, smaller religious communities or religious minorities; of course, the privileged position of the largest religious community in the Republic of Slovenia, that is to say, the Roman Catholic Church, for which, of course, there is no secret that the operation of an office or the plurality of a religious space which it brings, is in principle no weather. In the Republic of Slovenia, 56 religious communities are all registered together. Freedom to freedom of religion is a constitutional category and the task of the State is to ensure equal opportunities for residents and residents in the field of this human right to free choice of religion. The State of Human Rights shall ensure through its institutions the same opportunity for all citizens to exercise these rights, in this case with the assistance of the Office of Religious Communities. If it is not, we have a human rights problem and we have a problem again, often at this time, in the case of the Constitution. In this regard, I ask you, Minister: How will the Ministry of Culture transform the Office of Religious Communities? Why does the ministry feel that a transformation or termination is necessary? In what way will the Ministry of Culture, after the transformation of the Office, provide better conditions for the functioning of all, i.e., especially smaller religious communities, and equality between all religious communities and believers? How will the Ministry eliminate the social and political status of the largest religious community in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the Roman Catholic Church? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u296	Thank you very much. A number of claims have been raised and, of course, also questions addressed and raised by the Member. And he says the Ministry of Culture will replace the leadership of the office; it has already done so. That this office is not a disaster to the Catholic Church; I don't know that. It has even been said that if there is no office, we have problems with the Constitution and with human rights, which it does not. And that the Catholic Church has a politically privileged position, and I don't know that either. I would say this on the issue of equality of religious communities. It has never been before and, of course, it will not be a question of equality in the future. This fact does not depend on the internal organisation of the Ministry of Culture, which is responsible for religious freedom under the applicable legislation. In view of everything that's been said, as if one major change is actually going on, let me give you some chronology. As a result of the reorganisation and economic performance of the government during the financial crisis of 2012, the Office for Religious Communities was abolished as a government service or as a stand-alone body in 2012 on the basis of the amendment of the Law on State Administration and the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The area of religious freedom became the responsibility of the then united Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport in 2012 and has been the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture since 2013. The decision establishing the Office for Religious Communities shall no longer apply from 2012. The Office for Religious Communities, which had only a nominal so-called, was further organised only as an internal organisational unit, first at the Ministry of Education and then since 2013, at the Ministry of Culture; that is, as an expert support to the Minister in decision-making in matters of religious freedom. Neither the expertise nor the equal treatment of religious communities has ever been questioned since 2012, and all the legal tasks in the field of religious freedom have been continuously carried out and are being implemented today. From 2013 to 2020, until the term of office of this Government, none of the left-wing governments gave any greater autonomy to the Office of Religious Communities, but that office remained the internal organisational unit of the Ministry of Culture and its Director has been a public servant, subordinated to the Minister since the abolition of the independent government service. Decisions in administrative proceedings and in relation to other legal bases at that time have always been taken by the Minister of State. In the context of the recent reorganisations of the Ministry of Culture since 2012, seven public servants have been present at the Office for Religious Communities, down to four civil servants and three civil servants have been appointed in this mandate. Decisions in administrative procedures and other legal tasks of the Ministry of Culture in the field of religious freedom were taken by, as I have said, each time ministers. In the light of the statistics and the description of the works and tasks of the staff at the Office of Religious Communities, it can be found that there were not many tasks, 429 certificates were issued in five years, 35 extracts from the Register of Churches and other religious communities, only 9 registration procedures and 34 procedures were carried out. The Office for Religious Communities has provided only two normative solutions to legal, sub-legal acts, none of which have been adopted at all in the Government. And over the last five years, there have been seven consultations of these meetings with religious communities. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. My fellow Member, you have the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u298	Thank you very much. The key issue remains open: Are you planning a transformation now? A set of arguments why this would make sense; not an answer to the question whether you plan to do so. Even how the State treats other religious communities in different organisational models compared to the RDC is a matter that needs to be asked by other religious communities. But the full-fledged office with powers, the Office of Religious Communities is an institution that, for the first time, provides communication between religious communities and the state, but this is at some formal level. It is also an institution which is the only institution in the Slovenian administrative system dealing with religion and plurality in this area. Discontinuation or obstruction of such an institution is a step backwards. Most advanced democracies go in a different direction, in openness, in the provision of freedoms in this area; Slovenia goes back here if that is the case. Even if, in principle, substantive issues are referred, as the data says, to the Service for Cultural Diversity and Human Rights, as it is planned, if I understand correctly, this is a very negative symbolic act if we degrade an office only to a job that can be read — and speedily justified by the close connection between the government and the RCC — as a desant of this brotherhood to the freedoms of religious minorities. And so from the point of view of human rights, which are here under question, I ask: Where do we have the assurance that this will not happen, namely, to violate human rights on the basis of free religious choice? And where do we have the assurance that, after the transformation of the Office in the field of human rights, religious freedom will actually be better for religious minorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u300	Thank you very much. What you're saying is that it's simply your opinion that this is a step backwards and that this is not some kind of openness and so on, that human rights are violated. This is your opinion that I disagree with and disagree with. The Office for Religious Communities, as such, is in fact being discussed. The people involved were three who, of course, maintain exactly the same work as they have so far, but are deployed. Since this service did not have enough work or work, it is allocated to other jobs, such as finance. For example, one woman made only decisions, someone was a lawyer, the main person who was, of course, competent and certainly responsible and knowledgeable to say so, and this one kept the same job and the same job, which is directly subordinated to the Secretariat at the Ministry, that is to say to the Minister. In this regard, there is no such thing as to prevent this work and to deprive any religious community of it in any way and to diminish any dialogue with religious communities. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Member Siter, you have the floor for a procedural motion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u302	Yes, thank you very much. Minister, first of all, you're going to have an explanation for what you said about the employees. In fact, those who have made the most efforts at the Office of Religious Communities in recent years to become one of the more independent bodies, one Directorate of Religious Freedom. They tried to achieve at least a name for the office of religious freedom. But in conclusion and in urging the National Assembly to hold a broader debate on this subject. Societal dispersion is growing. Sadly, this is so in the 21st century and still occurs in this space and time because of some religious differences. And it's sad that the state here doesn't play a specific agent of progress. It is evident that we have a religious community, which, in the eyes of the State, especially the current authorities, is clearly privileged, has its representative at government press conferences addressing its believers, its employees receive unconditional UTD. What is the situation between culturers, self-employed, minister, you know the visas of this. I'm not even gonna waste my time on church taxes. The Roman Catholic Church – the main religious community is the largest, most numerous religious community in the country and non-governmental organization and multinational and religious community. And now it is not a problem that members, members, believers in the Roman Catholic Church have the right or access to this church infrastructure; that is commendable. It is not a problem that most people have the possibility of access, information and so on; the problem is that other minorities do not have it. At the government press conferences, we do not see representatives of Buddhists, zombies of the church, harekrishnov, Muslims or anything else. And we are talking about this human right, or the violation of it. It is broken if the state favors one church institution and forgets the others. And that organization can't do anything to me, you can't be the main factor in the country, in the last days even dictate some epidemiological measures and fraternize with the government in this way. The country and the church are constitutionally separated. It's a country, it has to be, and it has to stay secular. And so kind to all believers that it ensures equal treatment for all. We are here in the field of ensuring human rights by the state and this is the minimum of civilized democratic society. An active Office for Religious Communities with full powers is a prerequisite in this area for ensuring these human rights, i.e. free choice of religion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Maša Kociper will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u304	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister! In the SAB Group and all members of our party, we keep calling on people to respect the measures and do not trouble them, even though we may not fully agree with them. The only measure, however, is to point out several times that it should be weighed with particular care for health reasons and other reasons for its introduction; and this is distance education. We estimate that only education in school allows for the achievement of all educational goals, not to mention the cognitive, emotional and other development of children. Virtual interaction can in no way replace human contact and have a negative impact on the well-being of children who do not have these social contacts, have nowhere to live their excessive energy; hence, the closure of schools should be the last emergency exit. Several experts in this area were also alerted to the harmful effects of children, and in the end, the Constitutional Court also warned of the irreparable consequences that arise in the case of schooling with an adapted programme. At this decision of the Constitutional Court, which has even found that, with such an important intervention in human rights, such as the cessation of education for children who will never be able to replace it, we hope that there will be another consideration of when and how to open schools. In front of me is a plan to release measures in the wake of the covida-19 pandemic. From this plan, which has a black, red, orange and yellow scenario, we see that we are still running out of time to open primary schools and secondary schools for all children. To achieve this, the number of infections is expected to fall below 600 and the number of hospitalised below 500, with the number currently being hospitalised over a thousand 300 people. Dear Minister, it seems to us in the SAB that too few times we hear your voice to open schools as soon as possible; and that you are too weak to support this measure as soon as possible. Just as Minister Restoration is fighting for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, so should you. That's why I'm particularly interested: Is this relaxation plan intended to be consistently respected in this highly sensitive area because we see that it does not exist in some areas? When, in particular, can we, given what you know from the expert group, expect schools to open up? Will this at least be immediately after the new year; will this lockdown continue after the new year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u306	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Member Kociper, thank you for asking. A number of similar questions have already been asked today not to repeat themselves, perhaps even a look at the magnetogram. Now let me give one more general explanation of respect for priority, respect for rights at this very moment, during this period of this epidemic, which we do not yet know how to cure or find the right answer to it, until it is obvious that there will be a vaccine, because only with our consistent conduct or a little less consistent action will we succeed in doing so. In many declarations, as well as in scientific works relating to the question of human rights, rights and freedoms are classified in different groups, in different orders or in different generations, according to the priority of these rights, which should also be guaranteed by the State to its citizens. In this first group of fundamental rights, so-called civil and political rights, in this package, first of all as fundamental rights, is the first right to life. I hope we are all aware that we are actually talking about this first in this situation. Then there is a series of other fundamental rights here, in this first package of rights followed by civil rights, political rights, here for example freedom of assembly, association, electoral rights, the right to a fair trial and so on. Then comes the so-called third generation of rights, and these are solidarity and collective rights; and then there are four other subgroups in them. The first subgroup is the so-called post-industrial rights and the first right is the right to health. So again, the one we need to address right now. And then in the second set of these generations of rights are the rights of vulnerable and vulnerable groups, i.e. the rights of handicapped persons, special treatment of women, children's rights. It is said that we are already in the education and education of these most vulnerable groups. However, when we talk about the right to education in such a context, it comes into the third package of these rights, that is cultural rights; and among them is the right to education. Why am I explaining this? So that you will again understand the situation we are in. Our country is subordinated in terms of its ability to provide basic health care, for the sick, for an epidemic that we do not yet know how to cure, and which has obviously terrible results also in terms of taking life. The resource we are covering, the education sector in the indirect sense concerns more than half of the population. They are not only those who are directly involved in the process of education and education, but then they are associated with their relatives, especially with their parents, with the sick; and this is also how we can share these rights. At the same time, we are fortunate to have established mechanisms that work successfully, and we have been able to move into another alternative form, a safe form of education called distance education during this period. And when we stand in this sense and in this respect in a comparable European picture, we are among the best possible examples and examples. At the same time, we were invited by ministers to a major European consultation, coordinated by the Eminent Academic Group as last week. I want to say that I absolutely agree with your assessment and, I believe, with the assessment of everyone, that it is the first place of education in schools. However, taking into account the situation in which we are in this moment, this is the most optimal solution that we need to understand now, we must work it out and then move on as soon as the situation allows us to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u308	Thank you, Your Honor. I know that you have already answered some of these questions today, so I have put more emphasis on this distance education in general. You know, as a former Member, that when we report questions, we cannot know what the other Members will ask. I also thank you for this lecture from the priority order of rights. I know this thing, it's my fourth-year specialty. However, if we go a little deeper and we do not now have this legal debate, we know that intervention in human rights and freedoms must be subjectively assessed, this is the case. And as for children, their right to life and health is certainly not threatened. We know that children tolerate this virus quite well and that they do not get very ill. I am particularly concerned that, for these reasons, these types of rights in our system, which you listed, this distance education will continue and take place. We know that we were among the first European countries to introduce distance learning; I hope we will not be among the last to complete it. I personally believe that distance learning, which you said works successfully, does not work successfully. I have two school-bound kids at home, we hang out with other parents, and I have to tell you that we're all desperate. The fact that children now have speaking hours at which the teacher checks what they have done and what they have to do for tomorrow and who is present and who is not can’t be compared to normal schooling. Not to mention the absurdities that have already been discussed today, that the top children cannot attend the physical Olympics, because they will be sitting there with no idea how many in the room. And I'm sitting here every day with hundreds of people here, and a lot of other people with appropriate protective measures don't get sick. But I would ask you to say: What are the plans? In my opinion, will my plans for relaxation be too harsh for this area? And that we are all aware together that there are other ways that children can do [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Perhaps a further explanation of why such an approach to the answer is appropriate; for in some ways, it also indirectly answers your initial question of our answer to the Constitutional Court. Even as we have just addressed an additional substantive explanation to the Constitutional Court, we have approached the Constitutional Court from this point of view, while at the same time attaching a number of expert opinions and assessments, especially the paediatric part of the profession and this part of the teaching profession, how can it be particularly dangerous for children with health problems to return to school premises at this moment. Yeah, we usually have healthy kids. True, for the time being, the data show that children are not the most vulnerable to coronavirus, but are not immune. However, the data shows us that very successful carriers of the virus are to the elderly and especially the sick, which was also a fact that we could pursue in our school space at the time of education in schools. As far as distance education is concerned, once again – it is certainly not comparable and I agree with you in this regard. However, in these given situations, even when I am listening and having conversations with my colleagues and colleagues from other countries across the European Union, I feel like this. Quality education at a distance with all the equipment, with all this support and the right approach of teachers is better in the end than school education under very uncontrollable conditions. We have quite a few countries where kids are on paper at school, and they're not actually at school because they're being taught daily, they're not invited to school at all, they come to school, they're there, they're there, they're there, they're there, they're there, they're there, they're there, they're gone. In some countries, because of these epidemiological safety measures, we have rules or guidelines that say that children in open windows should be in school in winter, wearing jackets, blankets and so on. I mean, there's always some way to think about what the best decision is at a given moment that's not good in itself. And when this epidemic is over, the entire school space will earn the first prize in solidarity that it bears and bears for the entire system of our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u312	Yes, Vice-President, I would like to take advantage of the possibility of this procedural proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in order to have a wider debate. I did not get a clear answer on how long these measures are expected to take. I am very concerned if this plan of action is respected, it will take a month or two after the new year. And I think this will cause irreparable harm to our children. I am convinced that there should be a general debate on this foundation in the National Assembly, where not only Members and Governments, but also professions, should be confronted. And of course we talked about exactly what you're talking about, weighing pluses and minuses, weighing rights in individual cases. Because the fact is, I agree with this that we are ahead of the very best solutions. But I said before, I'm running out of time, I'm repeating for potential listeners, of course, children are medically less susceptible to this disease, but they're carriers. But personally, I would think it would be a better solution for children to go to school, to have as normal a school as possible, while limiting their contact with the elderly and the sick. We haven't gone to our grandparents for a while, either, just because I'm so exposed. Indeed, children are losing a lot in this process, and if this measure intends to take a long time, the damage will be irreparable. As far as the other cases I wanted to talk about today are concerned, I expect from the Ministry, for the first time, that this is a priority for children to return to school irrespective of the order of rights. And secondly, to prevent at least the damage that can be prevented. If five children who have been preparing for this Olympics for years and years can take part in it, sit in a space with an appropriate distance, then they are practically in the same situation as you and I today and every day. And there are a lot of cases like this. And it is necessary to know and take into account – and I hope that the ministry will take into account – that these children will be at a very large loss, as far as learning is concerned. As it is said, these one speaking hours, where they call themselves half the time, count who is, who is not, who has the camera on, who does not, then tells the teacher what to do until next time, and the children themselves watch powerpoints and study material. I hope that teachers will not forget in six months that they have been severely disadvantaged and that they have applied some of the standards that were in force in other times when children had normal schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Mr Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u314	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I will continue where Mrs Kociper has ended with this competition, which should be held essentially at home, which has also been misinterpreted in the media many times. Many people thought that students or students should travel to Moscow to this physical Olympics or to this alternative competition. But in fact it was so organised or so determined that the competition could be organised in Slovenia under the conditions mentioned earlier by Mrs Kociper, the true safety distance. The fact is, when it comes to children, that children are, in addition to the elderly who are the most vulnerable, unfortunately when they are unable to attend schools, a very vulnerable group is also exposed. I ask the Minister directly because I know when it came to the media when it was discussed why, why not why, the Association of Mathematicians, physicists and astronomers of Slovenia offered to be an arbitrator or to offer space. And as Mrs Member said before, in fact, this would be in the gyms, sir, as I understand it, from Russia, which would be some sort of supervisor, and through cameras, if I understood correctly, two supervisors who would oversee the course of this competition themselves. I must admit, when I first heard it, I thought at first that students or students had to travel to Russia; and then it turned out that this was not true at all, but that they could do it in their own country or in a neighbouring country that could enable them to do it. And now I have a question for you, Madam Minister: Why was such a competition not possible for these Slovenian students, although the previous Slovenian partner of this competition has provided spaces that repeatedly exceed the minimum recommendations of a safe distance in public space? Did you personally or the Ministry of the Association of Mathematicians, physicists and astronomers of Slovenia ask for help in obtaining permits to organize an international competition? What if they did, when did they turn to you, and what did you recommend to them as minister? Since you, as Minister, are responsible for education and research, what have you actually done to enable these chosen students to participate in this international competition at our home? And I'm also interested in: Do you realize what message you are sending with this education, about hard study and research work not only for future students but also for current students and students? Even today, this matter has been preconceived, predebated. In fact, everything was enabled — a safety distance, a large space — and it is truly incomprehensible why they should not participate in such a contest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Corazzi, thank you for your question. This particular case has had quite a strong media response. In fact, so powerful that I must be quite honest with you that we have only obtained information from the Ministry through publications in public publications about what is happening by the organizer of the competition in Slovenia, namely the Association of Mathematicians, physicists and astronomers (DMFA). When we became involved in this process of obtaining further information, we learned that this Slovenian organizer then turned to the NIJ for the adapted form of the Olympics, after we know the information, but did not receive the green light on the NIJ side. Let me introduce a little bigger picture so you can understand. This is one of the international physical competitions and this is a type of international competition that is not part of the formal school system. In this context, there is no reason, such as the organisation of graduation, even in such difficult and exceptional circumstances, to adapt and to make an exception to the otherwise adopted decision banning assembly in educational institutions, as well as to the general decision banning assembly in public spaces. Here are some preludes that neither competition nor any of the knowledge checks in our country allow for this moment in education or any other institution or institution. This also applies in the first place to those competitions at the level of school competitions, at the level of national competitions in any area directly within the competence of the competent ministry itself. However, as we say, we have a number of international competitions organised within international societies that are organised into one system that emerges from our country's formal education system. We certainly support and encourage all these competitions, as we have in this particular case in some that have been. It was not so much about them, but to mention them, to let you know, for example, the exam from the English language for Oxford, for Cambridge, we recently had an exam from the German language, which we have not been able to pass because of all these limitations, but we have somehow joined a mediation role in the sense that we have asked the relevant organisations or institutions that we can, in order to move this period of knowledge verification to a time when such difficult limits will no longer be. For example, in the German language, we finally submitted an initiative to Berlin at the Conference of Ministers of Education in order to allow for an additional deadline for implementation, we count early in the spring of 2021. Then, for example, we offered an opportunity to help if there was a decision to carry out the tests online. We have somehow joined in helping, although we do not formally have these compulsory ones, but we wanted to help with the forms that we know can be implemented in the light of all the limitations and all the decisions taken and the decisions in force. So much as an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u318	Thank you for your word. To correct the Minister, this society has turned to the NIJZ, but they have received an answer that such requests are not being addressed or even there is no person to be approached with questions about the implementation of such an extraordinary event. They turned to NIZ. Even if we take the whole situation a little more global or in this case a secondary school or a student. See, 35 participating countries have managed to provide space in their countries for students to stay at this safety distance and for all these health measures ordered. Now, if I understand correctly, were you contacted by this society or by Moscow? You were? Yeah, okay. That's the way it is now. Now I will not get involved in what the NEIJ has to say, because they are experts in their field, and it is right to listen to them; or they are those who advise on these matters that others do not know. Mrs Kociper explained earlier that, despite the security distance, there is quite something in this room in the National Assembly, as well as the workers behind the tape are often at these minimum security distances. And yet I'm curious: Have you had any contact with NEJZ, even discussed this with them, or have you given counsel on their part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u320	Thank you very much. If you don't mind my saying so. If we organised any knowledge checks, tests or competitions in the current situation, when we have closed educational institutions for the activities they carry out, then we would certainly first give priority to these exams, tests to work students, students, students and students who should do so because of the compulsory work of education, and, as we say, even at this point, it is not possible to ensure this. What it means to ensure that the NEIJ gives us this final assessment in this respect. It is very logical that in the case of organizing different types of competitions, as well as other forms of knowledge verification – although it is not on our portfolio, but very similar, for example, this moment is not being passed out of road traffic regulations – it must always be obtained at this time by the NIJ, which is why I expose it. NOT when there is such a situation as this, when the complete closure of educational institutions and of the prohibited association in general, is said to be this decision on the gathering of people, then the NEIJ says only on this basis that this is not feasible and that this must be respected. I can assure you that we have given all these societies, that is to say, to all these groups, which do not represent the direct responsibility of our source, but we certainly support them in their operation and organisation of the competitions, the commitment that once the epidemiological picture is improved and once we have resumed our model B training, we will also, in cooperation with NIJZ, develop guidelines for the implementation of such competitions in our premises, that is, at school premises. However, it is true that, together with the competition operators, we will then find some combined solutions for combined performances, if, for example, it is possible that they are already doing so through online executions, then this would be highly recommended. I believe that it would also be less complicated; or if they postpone these terms to a later date. Let me also say, it is not just our oasis country in this sense that many large countries around the world are facing very similar problems at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u322	Your Honor, once again, thank you for your word. As previously said, I fully agree with this. Children or our young ones are our future, and those who will then care for us and our better age, or when we come this year, at least hope. And it is only right that we focus primarily on them, trying to find all the solutions that we can to help them in these difficult times. The fact is, students, primary schoolchildren, in kindergartens and students have shown one major measure of solidarity in the case of long-distance schooling, when they also give up social contacts, when in fact they are reluctant to give up the part of the knowledge that belongs to them. Because that's the way it is. Everyone wants to know more and more, just like we do here, at least. I therefore propose that a broader debate be held on this subject. It is also right to touch on such subjects as school and students to discuss this several times in the National Assembly, because I am afraid or often feel that it is too little, even in these times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Mr Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u324	Thank you for your word. My question for the finance minister and the right hand of Janez Janša is very simple: Why is it that, Minister, the government you're in is doing everything possible to impoverish the state budget? No, I'm not talking about the expenditure that went into the air due to the covida-19 epidemic, they're understandable. The billions minus already announced in the current budget and in the budget for the next two years is, in fact, an investment in a solidarity public health system, in a basic development infrastructure, if, of course, these are funds that are taken on credit and then made a meaningful investment. The covida-19 epidemic is clearly being used by the government of Janez Janša to promote chaos, and in this chaos continues to impoverish the state budget, for example for such unnecessary cuts as cutting into luxury vehicles. I am talking about legislation that was adopted at the working body of the National Assembly a few days ago and will impoverish the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for EUR 29 million. Why? Only to save a few euros, including a few tens of thousands of euros, does the buyers of luxury vehicles, says the rich. For example, luxury vehicles, which fall into the category of €150,000 – who really has money in this 150 000-euro car company – will be reduced by more than €40,000. On the other side of the scale, we find cases like this when someone buys a clia, a normal working car, and pays more taxes than they pay at the moment. In short, in the country, a severe social crisis, a health crisis, an economic crisis, when the social and economic crisis is only really showing up, the government is currently artificially holding them back; the government of Janez Janša is looking for ways to reward the rich. This budget outage is, of course, at the expense of a working class or a large majority in that country, which goes to a service that benefits public services. For these public services, 29 million per year will now be made available to workers for this support only in order to reward the rich. My question is: How is such a tax policy, however meaningful, justified?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question. I must first reject here the thesis you have put, honourable Member, that this government is strengthening the rich at the expense of the poor, that because it changes the Tax Law on Motor Vehicles or even abolishes one, the poor state budget on this account and so on. It's the next thing. The car is one of many products or products. And it's usually so that I don't have any special tax status, it doesn't do any good. According to the current legislation, which comes out a few years ago, even when there was a financial crisis, we have a special tax on cubicles. A special tax on some feature of cars that that car that has multiple cubics also pays more taxes. Such arrangements are common everywhere, in particular in Europe, also in other countries. A car is not a product that should have some special status as a result. If you are looking at a tax history, then you can find that in history different products had some special status. In the previous country, for example, they had a special status with high taxation, such as playing cards or ladies' makeup and the like. From this point of view today, the tax profession is no longer going in the direction of special status. But it's something else, it's about taxing cars to keep the environment as green as possible. And Europe has decided here for green. As a result, we have changed the criteria on which cars are taxed. And these criteria are largely taken into account in the extent to which an individual car endangers the environment or the environment desensitizes or leaves particles that damage the environment. Therefore, in accordance with the recommendations and also the Directive of the European Union, car taxation has been amended or is to be amended since 1. 1. 2020. About these cars that you are talking about, I think there are some estimates of about 10 in Slovenia. And to the fact that there are so few registered in Slovenia, as there are more driving, has brought exactly enormously high taxation, even compared to other countries. From this perspective we also come in the area of nature conservation, green and, of course, also in the field of tax policy into some normality. Normality known across Europe and across other developed countries, but not to some abnormality where a particular product is shown as being tax-hate, and should therefore be taxed finely. From this point of view, we are counting because there is a lower demand this year in the field of vehicle purchase, so that the market will also be balanced from this point of view here or come to some situation that was in 2019, 2018, it is before the crisis. However, we do not look at this tax ideologically, as you, honourable Member, do, of course, mention the rich, the poor and so on. I think it is right that every citizen of Slovenia buys or owns a car as he wishes, but people's preferences are different. From this point of view, I'm far from going to some people's preferences, what someone's putting their incomes into.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u328	Thank you. Let us look at this ideologies of the government of Janez Janša, if it is not the poor and it is not the rich. On the one hand, the government of Janez Janša is now flirting with capital and employers in an attempt to freeze the minimum wage for the worst-paid workers; on the other hand, it has given employers more than €1 billion in subsidies, converted public money into private pockets under the cover of the Coronavirus epidemic. A tax on motor vehicles, someone who drives clia, will buy it for 10,000 euros if they buy a new car, and someone with a BMW for 150,000 euros will be able to buy this car without paying more than 40,000 Euros. It is said that this is an explicit measure on the part of the rich and, of course, the state budget is poor for EUR 29 million. That's not even the only case. On the one hand, the government of Janez Janša rewards the largest religious institution in this country – the RCC, subsidises its clergy and its officials; on the other hand, it does not protect its own self-employed in this country from income and covida-19 epidemics as they should, for example, leave students behind and so on. Of course, if you're a friend of Janez Janša, then you're allowed everything. The tax measure for luxury vehicles is not a green measure. All key environmental indicators have already been taken into account in current legislation and are not seriously affected by this legislation. Certainly, however, it does not affect as much as it interferes with the taxation of the rich. Mr Minister, you said that the tax is not intended to tax the rich and that it is not true that you are poor in the budget; but your tax change means a 30 million minus in the budget in the context of the health, social and economic crisis, which will go to the detriment of the working class.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for complementing the question. The current tax on motor vehicles, once again, depends mainly on cubics, horses, kilowatts; and much less on green. Trends in cars show that those multi-cubic cars are also relatively greener, environmentally acceptable. Secondly, you mentioned freezing the minimum wage. These are some things I wouldn't comment on, because they're not even in the government yet, where nothing is ever accepted about this. That's what we're talking about, maybe that's what we're talking about, but I'm also not going to comment on what's in writing. These are also some assumptions that are not said to be true. How this government supports capital and, on the other hand, the government is for the freezing of wages, I can't say anything about it. Some media may be writing about it, but I think it's a long way from here. It is true, however, that we have been negotiating with the social partners for three days. It is true that we have been negotiating with the social partners on the CAP7 for three days now on this tax. Secondly, you mentioned that this government has given employers subsidies and, on the other hand, is taxing these cars and so on. This government replaces wages for workers, salaries. That's what this government says is paying the workers. Of course, it does so by giving employers money, and then these workers get a refund from that money. Support for employers in this case; no, there is support for workers by retaining jobs. By keeping jobs and not going to the unemployed. And it's quite the opposite now to support employers. No, it is in everyone's interest that there are employers and that there are workers, so that they do not lose their jobs and that, after the crisis has ended, they will be able to start operating as soon as possible and, of course, to gain their wages normally and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u332	The tax on motor vehicles or the tax cut of Janez Janša into the luxury of the richest, where someone who buys a car for 150 000 euros will be cut by 40,000 euros in tax, is just an overture, a mere prediction of what future lies ahead. Tragically, though, you might say that if you think the government of Janez Janša caused an epidemic with a heavy human tax, be careful what lies ahead. As we can hear from various quasi-institutions, such as the Government's Strategic Council for Debirocratisation, there is another tax reform, or more specifically tax cuts for the rich, after the collapse of the tax on motor vehicles. Of course, with these cuts for the best wages, for capital and so on, ordinary people in this country will be drawn to the shortest possible extent, who benefit from health care, who need social assistance, who go to work using roads and railways, because there will be no money to maintain all of this. Why won't he be here? Since the government of Janez Janša has already gambled, it will limit future incomes by further rewarding the rich. EUR 29 million, as long as the budget is poorer than the government cut in the taxation of luxury vehicles, may be a very low number in terms of the budget. However, this is €29 million, which will run out on the points that people feel the most they need. Of course, no one thinks the government will cut its own luxury or cut its subsidies to its capitalist friends. No, of course not. But under this government, according to what he's doing, according to what he's predicting, we can expect the increase of this 29 million. Very soon we will arrive from 29 million to 290 million and some further step. In view of the pace at which Janez Janša decided to destroy the country and everything in it is social and good, this would not actually be unexpected. Already in the last eight months, since we have the government of Janez Janša, this has been pumped out of the state budget as a capital subsidy of more than a billion euros, that is our total money. Not even the money I'd have in stock. No, that's the money she owed her. A total of EUR 600 million did not even end in maintaining and protecting jobs, but in the capital reserves of enterprises. In short, it is a transfer of wealth from the poor, from the working class, even from the small business of family businesses to those who already have a full ass of everything — to the rich and to the capitalists. That is why in Levika we demand a general discussion on the tax policies of Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 December 2020, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u334	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister Jernej Vrtovec! My question is related to developments on the second track project. And we know that this project is also an inseparable part of the fate of Luke Koper and a number of accompanying activities, including the very important logistics sectors. As we know, it has been 25 years since the first findings that the line between Kopro and Divac and Ljubljana has to be modernised and built. The project has undergone many obstacles, instigations and referendum judgements as well. And it's the referendum judgements that pushed the project somehow for two years. Today, we are witnessing new complications. Less than a month ago, we were informed that the Government intends to conclude with Hungary, launch secret negotiations on their approach to the construction of a second track. Today, we were also informed of the news that one of the providers on this project simply does not have the required references, although first 2TKK acknowledged them to him and then the audit request showed that he simply does not have those references. Some changes are taking place in this project, which is not really clear. We know your predecessor is a magician. Alenka Bratušek completed the financial construction, found a cheaper solution with her own funding, thus saving 300 million euros, and found savings of 100 million euros in the project itself. The total investment has been estimated at a good billion euros, billions and 50 million euros at constant prices, and we are very concerned about the developments we are witnessing in the SAB party these days. Disruption of the financial structure and complications of the tender after your predecessor started building on the ground and these results are, in fact, visible. We have discussed this issue on two committees and we have not received any answers as to why you are introducing these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u336	Mr. Reich, I didn't get your question. What are you asking me about the complications? Nothing gets in the way. What are you getting yourself into? Nowhere. But now you're like crap, except that you're singing praises, and you're saying the same thing over and over again from the question of the mission. No financial structure is collapsing, nothing is collapsing. The procurement procedures, as you know from one procedure in the past, you know that the problem to which the Minister of Infrastructure does not have any influence, but the procurement procedures are such that they come from the complaint. You know what such complaints were like in the case of Karavank, when the procurement process lasted more than a year, when the Austrian parties started drilling and we were still in the process. I simply cannot influence the procurement, complaint and audit procedures. You also know that 2TKK has its own supervisory board which has an influence; or the supervisory board is looking at the administration of 2TKK itself, holding, assembly, Government; and after all the information available, although there may be complications with regard to the procurement procedures, I believe that the contract can be signed in April and then the construction itself. It could have come sooner if there were no similar problems in procurement procedures on one other case. Is that right? Where it gets complicated, you know that. I don't know how much this is politically worthwhile for you, but to be like one laziness, and to repeat it on each of the parliamentary issues, as at the Commission's meeting to oversee public finances and committees. I can, no problem, I am happy to be available, but I will tell you that another track is no longer possible to stop through your questions. Although that may be the purpose, but it is no longer possible to stop it, the second track will begin to build in this year or year, which is to move forward with regard to the frozen countries. The Western countries are key to the development of the port of Koper, and I will insist. If Luka Koper does not look back on the icy state, Luka Koper, who is inseparably connected to the second track, let me tell you again, then there is enough Marina in Isola. We need Luca Koper because it's a strategic port for the icy states. But if you tell me more specifically where it's going to get complicated, then I'll be happy to answer you, because it's getting complicated anywhere. It doesn't get complicated anywhere, everything goes as planned. It's gotten a lot more complicated in the past than it is now. Now it's all going the way it is. I'm not going to say what got involved a year and a half ago, two years ago, that we wouldn't be like the Karavankas, but the procurement procedures really need to be simplified and speeded up, because here are the problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u337	Thank you very much. You have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u338	Thank you very much. I agree that if there were no politically motivated referendums, the project would not have moved for two years. If in the past any company did not deceive with the references, the case would not have taken place for six months; or if then the audit committee had requested or had taken a decision that someone claiming to have a reference and knowingly lied to give another reference, it would probably not have been possible to reach those deadlocks. I didn't get an answer to a key question when you're talking about the Western countries: How many cargo will the icy countries provide? The icy states don't provide cargo. The cargo is provided by companies in the behind countries and by shipowners arriving in Luka Koper. The ownership of the railway is not a condition for anyone in Slovenia or the territory of Slovenia to carry the goods. Railway infrastructure must be accessible to all carriers under the same conditions and companies carrying through Slovenia are pursuing their economic interest. This means that this infrastructure must be accessible to them under competitive conditions in both time and money terms. And once again, neither on these committees nor today have you said how much cargo these frozen countries will deliver. I can say that they will not provide any cargo because it is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the companies in the hinterland and the shipowners who are going to Luka Koper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u340	I can't predict how much cargo there will be, because I'm not a wizard to know what will happen next. But I can tell you what is at the moment, more than 60% of the container shipment in Luka Koper is going to the frozen countries. I know what you want to ask me, but behind me is a finance minister who fought very hard to get here in 2007, 2008 or to have a little more competition on the railways with Luca Koper. Deutsche Bahn, coming to Slovenia, you probably heard about it at the time, even though you weren't involved in politics. And we missed a great opportunity, saying that in Slovenia we are the master. And this winged cost us a lot of money, a deposit of about 10 billion euros. I don't know how many more times I have to repeat this, that this winged thing costs us to get political points, we have sympathy for the employees of the relevant state-owned companies, political points; a lot to improve our logistics situation, but not. And once again, the Italian state sold its own coast at the value of EUR 100 million to one icy country. There are logistical flows that will surround us, Mr. Reich, around Austria. Two important logistics terminals are being upgraded, one is Beljak, the other is in Graz, which will soon arrive in your native Maribor if this goes on. We need to build Luka Koper through our logistics capabilities in the phase by connecting with the back and other Central European countries. If you are going to build on winged – in Slovenia we are the master, then you will be an sworn politician, not such an individual who you will say we want to build Luka Koper and Slovenian logistics. Now, make up your mind, but one day you're gonna have to tell the bob. Which company, I'm asking you, was in the past because I don't know what was behind a certain backlog and made a reference. This is very important information. Because if any company did this, then you have to tell it now, because it's a crime. The State Audit Commission, at least that's how I look, is the last instance of the procurement process. You're an engineer, and you know how it goes. And there's nothing left behind. And once again, I know what you're going to say, that it's companies that are directing logistics flows. But don't ignore the role of states. Do you know whose property Deutsche Bahn belongs to? Do you know whose property is Hamburg Hafen, including Lufthansa and so on? These are important factors and countries that are cooperating with these companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u342	So, yes, I have a procedural proposal to hold a debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure due to a number of non-answers to my questions. Once again, I would like to reiterate that no country is selling its infrastructure to neighbouring countries, but at least at one 400km section, with an input that allows the construction of five kilometres of railway lines, it introduces a disruption into the system. And as if we did not have enough bad experience with neighbouring Croatia in the management of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and as if we did not see what problems Croatians have with Hungarians in Mol, where they are still suing today and where the former Prime Minister is even in prison for doing business with Hungarian partners in secret. Once again, no country sells its infrastructure to a neighbouring country or gives up ownership functions, at least to do so without reciprocity. If we do something, then let us do it in a reciprocal way, that if problems arise, we have the tools to defend our interests. And once again, I'm going to finish my thought, a farmer who sells or drinks his property becomes a denarius. And that can't happen with Luca Koper and the other track. And once again, we have not received any information as to how much cargo the icy countries will provide to the country. I'm not going to say what's in the memorandum that we discussed at the closed session, but there's never been a speech, we're not talking about it. And there are many doubts about this work, many questions and I think it is right to discuss this for the benefit of Slovenian logistics, for the benefit of Luke Koper and for the benefit of Slovenian infrastructure. And as for the events of 2008, you are talking about the 10 billion-dollar deposit of the then German partners, this is a legitimate decision of the Government. And as you yourself found out when the country did not have the money, she said: “Let’s solve something ourselves. And if we're looking for a foreign partner, then we're specifically looking for him, not with one mistake in the system for 200 million euros. And that's what we're talking about. It's not a strategic solution, it's a strategic disaster.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 December 2020, in the framework of the votes. Vojko Starović will ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u344	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister and to all present! My question is: How is the demand to recover the public debt to 60% of the gross social product, as mandated by the Stability and Growth Pact? Does the government have an appropriate plan of a comprehensive set of policies to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances for fiscal policy management? From my question, there is concern and fear that Slovenia will fall into a debt trap. The debt trap, however, replaced the former colonization and occupation in modern times. The countries that fall into this trap fall under the dictatorship of creditors, which means that then others, such as the IMF institutions or the troika, determine what you have to do, what you can do, what you have to sell and so on. In short, you lose your sovereignty, just like the colonial states used to lose it. I therefore believe that it is essential that we draw a way out of this, that we design an exit strategy. In October, our country committed another billion euros. According to the Ministry's plans, the country's public debt will amount to around 82.5% of this year's GDP at the end of the year. That's close to our year-round work together. Slovenia's public debt is currently increasing in comparison with other European countries. According to the level of indebtedness, Slovenia is at the summit between the Member States of Europe and, following success in the fight against the pandemic, at the bottom. Since the end of October, state budget expenditure has increased by almost 25%, i.e. by a quarter, and revenue has fallen by more than a tenth. There's no other way out. Where's he going? From here on out, my fear and my concern. And your colleague Tonin says it's time to borrow, because interest is low. We both know, Minister, that they are low because we have recently had results and because the previous government has positively completed for 2018 and 2019. This was the first government to conclude positively after the start of Slovenia's independence. However, the debt reprogram will have to pay higher interest in some time, because now we are going to fall into a worse situation; and this is it. And we're going to pay a billion again, and that's multi-annual, which means more than a multi-year equipment program. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Dear Member, your predictions are quite negative, and they also show that you are using some numbers and some of the issues that are somewhat tending. It is true that the debt has increased recently during the covida-19 epidemic; it is well known why it has increased. It has increased to the extent that the state budget pays for expenditure related to covid-19, pays for all health services related to covid-19, also pays for certain constructions, hospital capacity upgrades, equipment and so on. And for this purpose, or because of the increase in expenditure here, the state is also in debt. And more in debt in 2020 than in 2019, if I may just mention that the year is almost over. From this point of view, you are absolutely right, but Slovenia is in the first half of the European Union countries with the smallest debt in relation to gross social product. Of course, it is no comfort to be so indebted now; of course, it is that we owe ourselves on one side also to repay annuity. It is said that we are already paying back those annuities that have arisen on the basis of debt at a much higher interest rate. And these debt costs, or debt costs, are lower from year to year. Why? Because we're turning credits from those who had a higher interest rate into loans that have a lower interest rate today. Economic and financial policy is also decided by credit rating agencies. And on Friday or Saturday, one of the leading credit rating agencies Standard & Poor's confirmed a half-year-old rating for Slovenia. Before that, Moody's increased his rating for Slovenia. No credit rating agency has reduced its rating for Slovenia in the last year. I am talking about the latter, usually these evaluations are once a year or even twice a year, meaning in other words that these ratings assess the current policy, the current economic and financial policy of the country, the government. And they have confidence, as these assessments show, in this policy led by this government, in this economic and financial policy led by this government. This is also shown by some of the European Commission's forecasts, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the IMF – the International Monetary Fund, including the Bank of Slovenia, Umarja, which predicts a relatively rapid exit from the crisis for Slovenia, which means that economic growth will fall and fall this year, but precisely because of this policy, which we are leading where we keep as many jobs as possible, will be a quick reflection. This means that when the crisis is over, when it is gone, we will start rapidly with economic growth. And that, of course, also assures us that we will pay our debts more quickly. In this regard, I would like to say that the plan exists or will be made when the fiscal rule is in force without Article 12, which now allows for higher expenditure such as revenue.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u348	Good. I don't think this 12th article means we can be in debt. I don't know where. That's what I'm warning you. And I'm warning you in this exit strategy or plan, that's what I'm asking. Last May, on the Committee on Finance on the Constitutional Review Initiative, you said: The provisions laid down in Article 148 of the Constitution and consequently the Fiscal Rule Act actually allow public finances to operate in all three basic functions, namely the redistribution, stabilisation and allocation functions. This is indeed a matter of ensuring and guiding a sustainable managed budgetary policy. Those are your words, and I'll give you that. At the same time, it is right to look at the composition of the debt of the state budget, which was close to 29 billion at the end of 2019. I don't know how long it's been, it's almost 34 now, as far as I've been looking at the data. Of this, smart governments – smart in nicknames – owed themselves, except our previous government, which was not smart, which in both years of governance 2018 and 2019 created a plus. At the expense of the debt, these governments generously distributed electoral candy, thus producing 20 billion debts together. I'm afraid this is happening to us right now. In doing so, it must be said that from the total debt, I say in return, it was only 1.8 billion for development investments and only 1.7 billion for development investments, and unlike the general opinion, we inherited it from the previous country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u350	Thank you very much again for your word. Yeah, now it's gonna be more research and development. That's definitely it. The other thing I'd like to say is what you mentioned and connected, too, but I'd like to separate here. I would either separate the deficit or the surplus of the budget and, on the other hand, the debt. That's two things. With regard to Article 12 of the Fiscal Rule Act, there is a shift from that to that, or allowing, under this Act, that the State, in its own words or simply, spends more than it actually does. I told you why. Due to the cod crisis and coverage of cod costs. On the other hand, on the basis of the Fiscal Rule Act, the Government is obliged to make an exit strategy to the Fiscal Council on how it will cover this deficit, which will continue in 2020, 2021; and is forecasted in how many years. We have to set up years here, propose years, then the National Assembly also approves. In this context, we are also waiting for the position of the European Commission, the position of Europe, because the whole of Europe has decided that fiscal rules no longer apply at the time of the epidemic. This is about the deficit or surplus. On the other hand, we have a public debt. The public debt, given the amounts you have mentioned, will be used relatively in the context of gross social product; I estimate that this year 82.4% of gross social product will be used. This is also announced in all budget documents. The second year, this percentage will fall below 80 percent and then continue to decline in 2022, which means that this is a downward trend. Of course, we must bear in mind that this is a relative attitude towards gross social product. If the gross social product of the race, then the percentage of that debt is actually lower. We're going to go back below 66% or 60%. But I cannot agree with you here that this debt means some addiction, a threesome and so on, what has also been said on your part. Here I think that the main thing about the state of Slovenia being able to lead a completely sovereign economic and financial policy, particularly the trust of foreign investors or international investors. And this trust is high on the basis of the estimates given by the financial markets.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, would you like a word for a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u352	Thank you, Minister, for your answers, but I must say I disagree with you. We have experienced this when we had to owe ourselves really high interest to resolve the situation of overindebtedness of our entire Slovenia. I'm afraid that's gonna happen to us again. I'm not saying it will. And I think it is right for the National Assembly to discuss this, to have a broader debate on how we will deal with this country's debt so that we do not collapse. This is a serious threat, so we must not say that we will get 10 billion from Europe. What's 10 billion? Today, the Prime Minister has repeated this again. We're going to get a net something over 2 billion grants. I think it's some kind of deception that can lead us on the wrong path. Let's be responsible, please, for the next generation as well. We need to discuss this seriously in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-14-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u353	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 December 2020, in the framework of the votes. That was the last question in today's session. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers they have given! With this, I interrupt the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue on Thursday, 17. 12. 2020, when the National Assembly is within the framework of [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please respect the rules of procedure. When the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I also interrupt the 53rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended 14.) DECEMBER 2020 AT 20.33.
