ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 50th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58, the second paragraph of Article 60 and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 85th session. 11. 2020. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Rudi Medved, Matjaž Han, Samo Bevk, Dr. Franz Runk, mag. Bojana Muršič, Predrag Baković, Franz Kramar, mag. Andrej Reich and Vojko Starović. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, cooperation at a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly using a remote meeting application has not been announced by any Member or Member. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be set at a distance by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a reference, so we shall not vote on it. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a preliminary conclusion on the non-admissibility of the legal referendum on the law on intervention measures for the benefit of the second wave of epidemics of manid-19. On the basis of Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Peter Ješovnik, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Slovenia is facing a second wave of the epidemic, and a new anti-Korona package needs to be adopted. With the proposed law, we want to mitigate and remedy the consequences and impact of infectious covid-19 disease in the field of economic, labour and labour relations, social protection and health care. It is therefore necessary to supplement some of the measures contained in the fifth package that were taken before the covid-19 outbreak was re-announced. It is also appropriate to reactivate some of the measures in the first package, such as subsidies to companies waiting for employees to work, and to extend some of the measures in the third package, such as the extension of subsidised reduced working time. The proposed law also provides a new solution: assistance in the form of partial reimbursement of uncovered fixed costs. Among other things, the bill also provides information and communication technology for distance education, extension of training of young researchers, protective equipment for students and students in the field of health and social security, and so on, so that I do not list everyone. As the Ministry of Finance has repeatedly pointed out, this crisis differs from the financial crisis in 2008. This crisis is sectoral. Certain industries are more affected than others, so measures target those they need. We work long-term in the preparation of the measures. First of all, human health remains, so we suggest that you confirm the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. The position will be presented by Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the President-in-Office! With a view to providing a legal basis for the speedy implementation of the Law on Intervention Measures to mitigate the consequences of the second wave of the COVID-19 epidemic, we again have before us a decision on the inadmissibility of the call for a legislative referendum. The proposal for a law, according to the Government, constitutes an emergency measure which will allow for the immediate and effective smoothing and remedying of the consequences of the epidemic. If the Government does not, as always, include in the intervention proposal legal provisions which are not related to the COVID-19 epidemic and have a grave impact on systemic legislation. At the same time, they are also disputed in terms of the exclusion of the right to a legislative referendum. One of the most visible and literally falling from the sky is the so-called Jambrek article, which should only meet the changed conditions for higher education institutions when the second extension of accreditation and not at the first. Of course, I will also mention again the possibility of punishing individuals who do not respect restrictions on the gathering of people in public places, and those who publicly call for violations of the ban on collecting people or collecting them. Even though you have eased the provision under the pressure of one of the coalition partners, it is our view that this sand is still being thrown into the eyes of the citizens. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also highlighted the inadequacy of the incorporation of such a type of provision into the legislative text adopted by emergency procedure, and has stressed that such practice of recourse to the right of referendum in the process of possible constitutional judgment could prove to be constitutionally unacceptable. Of course, you did not heed the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service, as you did not take into account any of our proposals to improve your actions. The Retirement and Prolongation Christmas are obviously not important enough for you to consider, with the support of everyone, as well as the free provision of computer tablets with mobile internet connection for students and students, and the proposal to reduce waiting lines in health, which puts the public health system at the forefront. With your distasteful underlings into a marriage that should primarily provide help to people and not to your friends, you have really pointed out the priorities you follow. In the SAB Group, we will not support the proposal for a decision for all of the above reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The path to hell is pressed with good intentions. The expression is often used as a cautionary warning that good intentions can also have undesirable consequences. Usually such a warning does not help in the belief that things will end well. But if it didn't happen so many times, I'd be forgotten. People like simple ideas. Wake up and resist. We can do what we want. On Wednesday, with 51 votes and 11 votes against, we adopted the Law on Intervention Measures to mitigate the consequences of the second wave of the COVID-19 epidemic. Yesterday, the State Council, with 26 votes, rejected the procrastination veto, only two saints felt otherwise. Today, we are once again called upon in the parliamentary bench to vote on whether or not the possible referendum on the sixth anti-Korona law would be permissible. At the time of the epidemic, there is a silent and unsaid claim that the referendum is the best democratic means of decision-making. In political philosophy, the referendum is not seen as an unconditional democratic tool. Contrary to our unscrupulous advocates of the referendum, it is generally considered a popular tool for dictators and tyrants. Clement Attlee, a labor leader, stated at the height of the political crisis in Great Britain immediately after the end of World War II “the referendum is an instrument of Nazism and Fascism”. At that time, Winston Churchill demanded an extension of Parliament's mandate and urged this as a matter of question at the referendum. He didn't make it. Atlee knew from his own experience what he was talking about. The referendum is a means of expressing the will of the electorate, which cannot be ruled out in any way, but it is absolutely problematic to make the referendum a top decision. The position on the referendum and its admissibility and usefulness depends on the circumstances in time and space. Representative democracy has its weaknesses. Political parties are oligarchised and the origin of negative selection and its institutions are weak. However, the extended use of the referendum is neither a medicine nor a replacement for this condition. The essence of democracy is not in the vote, but in the debate. The vote has already been put in place as part of the democratic decision-making process. When a thorough debate is held on the matter, it is only then necessary to vote. Understanding democracy usually leads to theories and practices that representative democracy is a rule and that a referendum should be avoided as a means of direct democracy. A system allowing voters to vote only “yes” or “no” or “yes” or “against” would institutionalise a principle which is hostile to the ideal of democracy as a debate. Democracy is, in fact, a polyarchy in which relations between the majority and the minority change according to the ratios of time and relative to the urgency of open cases. Last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, have we all forgotten that there are defects and distortions of direct democracy. Not all of us who have ever participated in direct producer assemblies suffer from amnesia, or we have been members of the labour councils and labour controls. Apart from memories of how pleasant and fun it was with sour taste, it is also important to remember how fruitless and manipulated it was. Members of the DeSUS Group have already pointed out the importance of the largest measure in the sixth anti-Korona law. This is partly the co-financing of uncovered fixed costs for companies. It is worth more than 100 million euros a month. If the measure is extended by the end of the middle of next year, which is realistic, the country will only devote slightly less than a billion euros to this measure. To oppose anything like this in any form is nothing more than a sick one. The decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum will be unanimously supported by Members of the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Susana Lepi Šimenka has the floor to present the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. On Wednesday, at the 49th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, with 51 votes to none, and 11 votes against, we adopted the Law on Intervention Measures to mitigate the consequences of the Second Wave of the COVID-19 Epidemic or the Shorter PKP6. Due to the increase in the number of infected people, and in particular due to the increase in hospital capacity and the number of patients in need of intensive care, the government was forced to re-enact the epidemic on 18 October. With a financial impact of more than EUR 1 billion, PKP6 provides assistance and measures to mitigate the impact of the epidemic on the economy, particularly for those who have had to suspend or carry out activities on a substantially reduced scale as a result of the measures. PKP6 is aimed at preserving jobs; PKP6 is helping many citizens who have suffered the consequences of the epidemic. We are talking about solutions, such as partial coverage of fixed costs for companies, compensation for the period of waiting for work, exemption from payment of business premises, if the owner of the country, the local community, extension of the moratorium on credits, deferral and interest payments of taxes, exemption from kindergarten payments if the child does not visit him, a warm meal for students and students from socially endangered families, remuneration for quarantine, co-existence of one parent with a sick child in the hospital, financial compensation for farmers, allowance for employees working in grey, red zone and so on. Since we want this assistance quickly to reach people to get this assistance to businesses as soon as possible, in the Slovenian Democratic Party of course we support the Proposal for a Decision on the Inadmissibility of the Call for a Legislative Referendum in the PKP6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle will present the position of the Marjan Sarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u10	Thank you, President for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In the LMŠ Group, with the conclusion that a referendum on anti-Korona law should be prohibited, this law would in fact be intended only to eliminate the consequences of the second wave of epidemic and assistance to citizens and the economy. In such cases, a legal possibility has been adopted to restrict citizens' constitutional right to a referendum initiative, i.e. for measures where urgent measures are taken by law to remedy the consequences of a natural disaster, as is the COVID-19 epidemic. However, a well-respected government coalition, in the sixth anti-Korona law, you have once again used this health and economic crisis to impose provisions in the intervention law that have nothing to do with eliminating the consequences of the epidemic. On the one hand, you have framed the so-called Jabber article, by which, although his university does not meet the conditions for accreditation, you will devote close to EUR 2 million. By your own – all in the name of the epidemic. On the other hand, you have introduced into the law a criminal provision that strengthens criminal policy towards our citizens and prescribes enormously high fines. If you think that people do not understand this and that they do not realize that you have exceeded the purpose or essence of intervention legislation, you are seriously mistaken. It is obvious that you are not sufficiently engaged in solving the economic and social situation of those who have lost their jobs or the entrepreneurs you have banned from doing business that we can hear and read every day, and obviously they do not come to life. As it is said, the LMŠ would be pleased to support the decision to ban the referendum if the law really regulated only and only the elimination of all these consequences of the crisis. However, since this is not the case, we will not participate in such a non-hygienic abuse of the Institute for the Prohibition of Referendum and we will not hold a stand against you while you treat candy to individuals, to deny other citizens the right to speak publicly in this regard. Citizens aren't just sitting on the couch.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! The rule of law is not a command company in which someone is in power and orders, and the rest are obeying orders. In the rule of law, the law adopted does not apply immediately and any measure of authority may be challenged. The Council of State has the possibility of a postponement veto. The law is capable of being challenged in a court of law. In the Slovenian constitutional order, there is also an initiative for a referendum, in addition to judicial protection, with which it is possible to reject the law. The fact that a regulation is adopted is not simple and not fast is the basis of the rule of law. For no one has absolute authority, and judicial protection is provided against every act of power. Respected and respected! Only in rare cases do exceptional circumstances require proportionate deviations from these principles. In addition, a regulation was adopted seven years ago to limit referendum decisions in cases of urgent urgent measures, namely the security and defence of the State, in the case of budgetary legislation and the adoption of international treaties, and in the event of an end to human rights violations. We also supported this arrangement seven years ago, as it allows the country to act quickly in exceptional cases. The intervention law to remedy the consequences of the epidemic by its address is one of such exceptional cases. However, a final assessment of this is in the hands of the judicial branch of authority, which, depending on the specific content, may decide whether such measures are indeed concerned. The intervention law, in which non-essential content is added that permanently alters social relations, would no longer be interventional. The Court could therefore allow a referendum on it, possibly threatening the validity of other very urgent measures and resulting in irreparable damage. The intervention law can only be proposed by the Government, so it also has a great responsibility to reach out to them only in areas where action is truly necessary. Members and Members must be reminded in such cases of the points where the borders are exceeded if we want the law to be notified. Your Honor! Six more times in the case of legislation to remedy the effects of the new crown of the virus, most Members and Members have not heard well-meaning warnings that certain proposed provisions go beyond the constitutional framework of the intervention law. Since the first so-called anti-Korona package, this practice has not changed. Already in the first package we could see content such as excessive repressive powers, permanent reduction of labour rights, standards of environmental protection and safe construction. The sixth package also contains so-called subsets in the form of excessive repression and assistance for the friends of the Prime Minister and other government officials, instead of for the affected economy, content that has the potential to overshadow and spoil everything that is good in law. In the Group of Social Democrats, we do not want to hinder the implementation of those aid measures for the people we support. However, we cannot assume responsibility for the content that goes beyond the necessary temporary measures in intervention laws. Let me specifically expose here the aid of the so-called Jambrek University, which is certainly a corrupt act. Let me lay out here the excessive draconian punishments for those who are supposed to call people together. These things are unacceptable and unacceptable for a democratic society, so the Social Democrats cannot support such a conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u14	The situation in our country, which has been dictated since March to deal with the new crown virus, still requires us to take intervention measures. As has been the case in recent months, the purpose of the law drawn up by the Government is clear, prompt and necessary action for citizens and citizens with a view to mitigating the consequences of the epidemic. We haven't come out of the first wave yet, we've already been hit hard by the second wave of the epidemic, but unfortunately it's still going on. Public life has stopped again, leaving traces in all areas. Therefore, in the SMC, we believe that this time also comes at the right time and responds to the challenges of many social groups. On the basis of the intervention law we have adopted a few days ago, a sixth-largest set of measures will be implemented to mitigate and address the consequences in the areas of work, economy, health, sport, agriculture, education and education – in all areas where the lives of people and the functioning of the economy and other social subsystems are at present being cut short. It is essential that the measures taken take effect immediately and that our citizens receive assistance as soon as possible. We are therefore also considering today the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum invitation to tender. In the SMC, we are aware of the responsibility we have towards citizens. By giving our vote to confirm the decision, we will provide the citizens and the economy with assistance as soon as possible. We are also aware that in the exceptional situation we are witnessing, it is necessary to advocate for the early implementation of laws that are good for our citizens and provide them with the necessary assistance. We need to enable them to bear the burdens of the crisis they bear due to the epidemic as little as possible. In the SMC, we will unanimously support the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! Instead of providing deliberate and targeted measures to effectively mitigate the negative health, social and economic consequences of the epidemic, the Government of Janez Janša, through the CAP6, provides for unacceptable interference with the rights of the unemployed, education and punishment, which has nothing to do with controlling the spread of the virus. It is clear that the government in each anti-Korona package is using the epidemic to achieve its class and lobby objectives. That's the way it is this time. Since the law has been adopted following an emergency procedure, public debate is denied and the consequences of its adoption will be felt much longer than the epidemic will last. Since this is an intervention law, a referendum on any article of this package is also denied, even though it is a personalized Jambrek article that makes corruption a cynical and shameless practice for all in the eyes of everyone, or an article that, for example, legalises a verbal delinquency. The Government takes care of its supporters and supporters and is already so arrogant and bold that it has extended the accreditation of the new university, which does not comply with the conditions set out in the 2016 legislation, beyond all applicable rules and standards. The University, led by the politically profiled Matthew Avbelj and Peter Jambrek, is a well-known ideologist of the SDS party. With the adoption of the CAP6, we have thus legalised corruption, which will cost us €175,000 a month, or €2 million a year. These are the gifts by which John Janša preserves the faithfulness of his religious leaders, the gifts we all pay. The CAP6 does not cover social measures to combat the increasing social pressures that it should have and, on the other hand, interferes with the fundamental rights of workers and strengthens the conditions for obtaining social rights. The proposed intervention legislation means grave and uncoordinated intervention with the social partners in the Labour Market Regulation Act and in the rights of the unemployed to the choice of suitable employment. The sixth anti-Korona package also introduces a modern-day verbal delinquency, which strongly reminds us of former Article 133, a fine that reaches an absurd and completely disproportionate amount of EUR 12 000 to call for protests. Another in a series of grave attempts to silence any criticism of the ruling and shameless attempt to criminalize any protest against the authoritarian authority of Janez Janša. However, since most citizens and citizens oppose the government and its policy after all public research, and this number is increasing from day to day, this government is literally trying to suppress any attempt to protest. Of course, even in the case of this article, a referendum is not allowed, even though it is clear how the government is always and every time it uses anti-Corona measures for constitutionally disputed and anti-democratic solutions, which do not have the slightest link with the fight against the virus. All proposals by the Left and the other opposition, dozens of which would improve the CAP6 and at the same time erase harmful articles, were rejected by the coalition valor. Prime Minister Janez Janša hypocritically offers a hand in cooperation and in the same breath rejects any help in drafting better laws. In every anti-Korona package, it places measures that really have nothing to do with addressing the consequences of the epidemic. Measures which should not be included in such packages. Thus, PKP6 leads us in the direction of an authoritarian and extremely undemocratic society through its dangerous, harmful and inappropriate measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! Democracy works. We will allocate 1 billion euros to people in this PKP6 package. Like the other intervention laws we have adopted so far, they are and will be intended for people, the economy, the preservation of the social state, the preservation of jobs in the future. We have accepted everything with the aim of solidarity, security and social protection for the weak. Among job security measures, it is certainly important to extend subsidisation of the waiting period. Work from home is being simplified and we want more people to be able to work from home and thus contribute to limiting the spread of the epidemic. Companies are also partly financed by fixed operating costs. In caring for young people, students, students, students are provided with a free hot meal daily for all those students and students who qualify for it. The average monthly income per person found in the Children’s Supplement Decision or the State grant shall not exceed 382,82 euros. And also for children who are placed in foster care. Of course they have to apply for meals at school. The funding shall also continue for the protection equipment for students and students in the field of health and social security, which they need in carrying out educational or study obligations. Student homes that do not provide services during the epidemic do not charge users. The State budget will cover the loss of parental payments to all public, private kindergartens, which means that parents whose children cannot attend kindergarten are exempt. For young researchers, the time limit for meeting contractual obligations is extended by one year. This applies to young researchers funded by the public research agency and to young researchers whose doctorate deadline expires between 12 March 2020 and 31 December 2021. Due to high costs, co-financing of protective equipment and facilities for disinfection of premises in sports facilities is being introduced. The budget provides additional funds to finance information and communication technology for all public institutions in the fields of education and education, as well as for higher education institutions. In order to strengthen the social state, the age of the child increases to 14 years, with which one of the parents can stay free of charge in a health care institution, at the same time the parents will be living with the child in a health care institution and are therefore detained from work, also entitled to 80 % of the salary for cohabitation. The rights of public funds that expire during the month when the epidemic is declared shall be extended monthly for a period of one month for the duration of the epidemic. For security, protection and resolution, all eligible members of civil protection who perform tasks in a non-professional manner shall be provided with an exposure, hazard and special burden allowance. I've only listed a few measures that are intended for people. People who live work in this country. So once again, democracy works. Anyone can decide whether to help people or not. People are expecting our help, and we are responsible and called upon to help them. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. I inform you that four other Members have been declared, namely Andrej Černigoj, Tina Heferle, Jožef Horvat and Nataša Sukič. The first one has the word Andrej Chernigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u20	Dear Mr President, Secretary of State, Honourable Assembly! Life often doesn't go the way you want it to. The world would be different if we could only tell the happy and loving news, but unfortunately that is not the case. In life you don't want to have unpredictable moments, and so unpredictable is this invisible enemy covid-19. Therefore, in the past, I have supported the sixth package in the House of Democracy, with knowledge of quick assistance, to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, which is worth a good billion euros and is intended for citizens and citizens, especially the Slovenian economy, and to preserve jobs. I'm aware we're not infallible. Together with other governments in Europe and around the world, I believe that we are looking for almost the same solutions to deal with the crisis caused by an invisible enemy. Because I believe that those who are quick to do so will be very pleased to support the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u22	Thank you very much, President. I'll make it short. First of all, I would like to point out that at the time of the adoption of amendments to the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, we have warned that this exception, once citizens have been banned by the referendum initiative, could be misused by every coalition majority. And that is what we are witnessing today when we have before us an intervention law in which you are skilled or a little less skilled, because in the eyes of the public, dear coalition MPs, we have planted quite a few subversives that do not belong in intervention legislation. With the articles of criminal nature you have permanently amended the Law on Offences, you have permanently amended the Law on Transmissible Diseases, and this is not the purpose of the intervention legislation that should be pursued in the PKP6. Among other things, we have already heard how you tried to break some of the quality standards that apply in our educational system, not to mention that you wanted to compare professional and general graduation. Happily, it was bitter and opposition from the law. However, this famous Jambrek article remains, with which we see that you share some candy with your friends, friends of this government, while some of the students who are in really severe social distress because they cannot do the student work with which they support themselves and help to support their family, you provide protective equipment. Great. I hope you don't think that students will go to the store to replace this protective equipment as goods. In this way, taking advantage of this possibility, when citizens can be prevented or restricted by their constitutional right to a referendum initiative, is not only an undignified and constitutional dispute, as our Legal and Legal Service has warned you in previous CAPs, but in my opinion it is also dangerous, very dangerous, for the foundations of our democracy to which this country is intended to be based, our country. Dear colleagues of the coalition, democracy does not work when you share your billions of euros, we have also heard to our friends, democracy does not work at that time. Democracy works when people are in power, when this people are respected by the State and when the authority does not abuse the position that it has over citizens. That's when democracy works. And you're saying again today that you want to simply break these foundations on which democracy stands.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of New Slovenia respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. He's one of the best in the world. Members and Members of New Slovenia believe in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Not one of them, but that's their freedom. As a result, the position of Members of the New Slovenia is very clear, and this is that the Act on Intervention Measures to mitigate the effects of the Second Wave of the COVID-19 or PKP6 epidemic refers to the content in respect of which, in accordance with Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum is not admissible. It is not permissible in accordance with Article 90 of the Constitution because it represents the Emergency Measures Act to ensure that the consequences of natural disasters are remedied within the meaning of the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia. This is a constitutional issue and the Constitution is crystal clear here. It's true, those who quickly do, twice do. This human river has been entwined by Slovenians and Slovenians. Why? Because we've been saying it many times since we were kids. Similarly, if you repeatedly repeat a sentence or a word, you are likely to internalize it. One such word has been heard many times in recent days by a scoundrel. Anyone who repeats it a lot is highly likely to internalize it. Would it be possible for people to vote against aid in the form of partial reimbursement of uncovered fixed costs, which would amount to approximately EUR 900 million? And this measure is worth about 44 million euros. Could anyone, against the rise in the maximum amount of the partial refund, be able to pay wages on average wages? This measure is approximately €73 million. Could anyone be against partial subsidisation of full-time shortening? This measure is approximately €15 million. During distance education, funding is provided for a warm meal for students and students from socially disadvantaged families, up to the third income class, about EUR 15 million. Who could be against this measure? Funds are being provided for long-distance education information and communication technologies, with a weak €20 million. But someone could be against this measure. And so on, and so on. But someone could be against financing the state of parental cohabitation with a sick child in a health care facility, up to and including 14 years of age. Could anyone be against what our colleague Alexander Reberšek was fighting for? Dear colleagues and colleagues, yes, those who quickly do, twice do. We will therefore vote in favour of this decision. We want and call on all those who will decide at operational level to help citizens and the economy, to make an effort and to understand that in the spirit of the CAP6 it is that we help. Not how help is denied, but how help can be given. This must be the goal of all those implementing the law. Finally, sincere thanks to all who respect the measures recommended by the medical profession. And thank you sincerely to all those who save human lives in health institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u26	Dear Mr Horvath, I see that you did not understand what I was saying in my debate. Already, the constitution allows, if you please, Mr. Horvat, if you please. It is already possible for the Constitution to limit the referendum initiative when it comes to intervention legislation regulating emergency measures to address the consequences of natural disasters. Yes, yes, but you're the one who couldn't resist the temptation to impose provisions in the intervention law that don't belong there. These are new offences, higher fines for our citizens, renewal of accreditation, graduation and so on. This is not all part of intervention legislation. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Horvath, please don't disturb me in my replica and don't yell at the hall to lie. You can read the bill or the law has already been passed. You have a famous Jambrek article in there, you have higher fines for your crimes, so please don't accuse me of lying. And if you'll excuse me now, I'd like to continue with my replica. When you were wondering what people were supposed to vote against in the referendum. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Against higher offences, against new offences, against prolonging accreditation and reducing the quality of the education system.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u27	Thank you very much. They also have the word Željko Cigler, which I accidentally skipped, and Natasha Sukič. First of all, he's got the word Željko Ciegler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I'll be very brief. When it comes to talking, when it comes to what is meant for people, how to help people, and how to accept it democratically. Yesterday, when we were looking at Tarcho and Globus, you saw that through previous anti-Korona laws, workers were helped, money was given to employers that workers were paid or paid to wait. Hotel Slovenia, workers do not get the money that the employer received from the state budget for three months. Government, how do you monitor the implementation of these laws? Where's democracy here? Mr. Horvath, where is the realisation of the password, who quickly does, twice yes? I'm going to ask you this, and then the Globe has also said that arms trade has been very open and foreign experts are studying that 40% of all arms trafficking is practically for corruption. And now let me put it this way. Who's quick? Twice. I ask whether the so-called Article of the Jambreks, which violated the law on higher education and placed other universities in an unequal position by giving them a special place so that, although they do not meet the conditions for accreditation of higher education institutions, they will continue to be financed from public funds. I ask the representatives of the coalition and the government whether this rewarded the dean of the New University of Matthew Avblja to write a legal opinion linking the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Government of Janez Janša that the referendum on the acquisition of arms of 780 million does not have a constitutional basis. Whether this subset rewarded the legal opinion in advance, with which the coalition will today vote on practically those who will be required to enforce itself by holding referendums on the first and second laws, in order to practically discredit Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which says that power in Slovenia has a people. Citizens and citizens are the ones who need to assess or express their views on these government measures, which are now being implemented through subcontractors, through the PKP6 in Slovenia or when, in a severe economic and health crisis, huge money is not being given to people for health, employment and businesses, so that we can work, but is being given to buy weapons, where, as I have said before, the level of corruption is 40% of the funds earmarked for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Chairman. Look, today I'm listening to these hypocritical statements, who is quick to, twice to, and so forth. Yeah, that's nice. But when we give our friends our common public money, when a corrupt article, the so-called Jambrek article, is legalized in PKP6, I am interested, given that the referendum is not possible where there is a mechanism, that this government in anti-Corin packages would not continue to push articles that have no connection with the fight against the virus, which are not of an interventional nature, but are extremely harmful both to our public finances and to our democracy. For example, the legalization of some kind of verbal delinquency, or favorite version, will now be engulfed by organisers for 12 thousand euros if someone dares to stage a protest. I would therefore like to know if the referendums are not possible, where we have citizens and citizens at all, so that such subversives do not find themselves in intervention legislation. Because by this logic you actually push into this intervention law whatever you think. From preventing NGOs from participating even in acquisitions, from challenging when it comes to your concrete construction business, to what we are now witnessing. It's getting worse from package to package. It's getting worse. You refer to the fact that the referendum on intervention legislation is not possible, but there are articles which are constitutionally controversial and which are totally corrupt or anti-democratic in nature. Now you tell me who in this country thinks someone's a fool. In fact, in the form of anti-Korona legislation, you are actually legislating exactly what is best for you right now. Of course, you take a huge number of measures that are directed in this direction, where they must be in some anti-Korona legislation, and in the meantime you insert two, three, four very powerful articles, which are a blow to our public finances in the name of filling the pockets of various friends, various Jambreks who dare write letters like that now. See, this is what Jambrek himself writes: “The week to come will be recorded in the history of the Slovenian parliamentary democracy of the New University. Never before in the history of the independent Slovenian state has it happened that part of the political space,” beware, “presented by the parties to the post-communist left”, this well-known rhetoric, this well-known dictionary, “so brutally false and misleadingly abused the parliamentary debate for a direct political debate with a legally established and functioning university.” Even if it was legally established and functioning, respected, the problem with this university is that this moment does not meet the conditions for extending accreditation under 2016 legislation. This appropriation is intended to And because of this, respected, such games with the permissibility or inadmissibility of a referendum in this country, in a country where, after the Constitution, the people have power, in short, I don't know, it's total cynicism and a mockery of democracy, the basic standards of democracy. In this country where the authority of the people has power, any legislation which is harmful which is not so directed, in this case the PKP6 is not fully interventionable, or in any other which is harmful to all of us, the people should actually decide. But it's not like you're making up all sorts of reasons why the referendum isn't allowed. From the fact that the PKP is an intervention legislation, to the fact that you will say that it is not possible to discuss the law for the defence of the state at the referendum, although it is not a defence of the state, but a purchase of some weapon for NATO missions abroad. Such things are now happening under this government. And that's a cynical slap for all citizens and citizens here. A mockery of democracy, a mockery of all of us here. That's why [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u31	Dear colleague Sukič, please check which card you have inserted. You have used the voice or minute of the SD Group of Ambassadors with the card Franca Trček. We'll take care of this. Just a little quiet, please. We'll take care of this. But you have two more minutes as the Left Party if you want a word. Colleague Bitch, are you done? Okay. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. So I'm closing the debate. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of the voting devices and have your cards inserted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. What explanation for the voice? Colleague Sukič, on behalf of the Left Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u32	Look, I'm sorry, I have a card in there now, and I'm Natasha Sukič, I'm not Franz Duck anymore. From everything I have said today, of course, when it comes to intervention legislation, which unfortunately undermines articles such as legalised corruption in the form of a Jambrek article or the legalisation of a type of verbal delinquency, when it comes to draconian penalties of up to EUR 12 000 for those who dared to organise any protest when it comes to such things, the referendum should be admissible, as these articles do not actually fall under intervention legislation, as I have made clear earlier. And what doesn't belong in intervention legislation could and should be the subject of a review at the referendum if things go too far. That is why, of course, we will vote against it in the Group of Ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President for your word. I will vote absolutely against this decision, against the ban on the referendum, that is, the government coalition, as in all anti-Korona packages so far, has also allowed the abuse of this so-called intervention legislation for cases that are absolutely not part of intervention legislation that have no bearing on limiting the consequences of the epidemic. It is, however, that they have stopped the provisions, such as a provision that prolongs the accreditation of the University of Jambrek, even though they do not comply. It is about laying down penalties for those who hope to say something against the government, despite the fact that these forms of protests have been dangerous in terms of the spread of the epidemic and so on. If I may have a word with you about this so-called Jambrek University affair. What the POP TV commercial television revealed days ago is ripe for the anti-corruption commission is ripe for prosecution. The government and the Ministry of Education have incorporated into this anti-Korona package a literally corrupt clause. The point is that the government wants to help friends of the coalition, friends of John Janša. In the name of the fight against the epidemic, it will be given to a private university, which is trying to become a parallel university of public universities in Ljubljana and Maribor, illegally acquired funds under the Janez Janša regime. And this was indirectly acknowledged by the writers of the letter that they sent to their graduates yesterday, called Jambrek and the company. This is embarrassing, and this is unacceptable and ripe for prosecution. I will vote against, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-50.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We vote. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 29. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 29.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 50th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. I inform you that the 51st extraordinary meeting will begin at 1:15 in this Chamber.
