ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I shall begin the 55th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 88th meeting, on 21 May. 12. 2020. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: only Bevk, Soniboj Knezak and Dr Matthew T. Vatovec. By the time limit set by the College of Cooperation at a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly using an application for remote meetings, pursuant to paragraph 93a of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure, no Member or Member has announced. At the meeting, I invited representatives of the Government to all the agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be set at a distance by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a reference, so we shall not vote on it. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law supplementing the law on travel within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and three Members with the first signed Maša Kociper. At its 36th emergency meeting, on 17 December 2020, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a work force. Since, after the discussion, the Committee on the Articles of the Law did not adopt the second reading of the draft law in the context of the reduced procedure at the meeting of the working body, the second reading of the draft law was completed. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. The position will be presented by Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Good afternoon! The proposal for a law supplementing the tolling law is another of the popular and populist laws that the opposition has recently submitted as under the current lane. Although I am sure that the proposers of this bill are well aware that the implementation of this law is largely technically impossible in such a short period of time. The bill states that since the Government has limited or banned movement between municipalities during this year in the light of the epidemiological situation of Covid-19 for a certain period, the use of toll roads has therefore been impossible for a large number of citizens. It is therefore the view of the applicant that the damage to the holders of the annual wine for 2020 should be partly compensated in such a way as to recognise 25% of the discount when purchasing the wine for 2021. However, the right to a discount would be shown by the holders using an invoice for the purchase of this year’s annual vignette or the corresponding vignette coupons. In Novi Slovenije we agree with the opinion of the Ministry of Infrastructure that the measure itself prohibits the crossing of municipal borders in practice does not mean that a particular user has not actually used the toll road either, as there are many exceptions to the movement between municipalities, such as a visit to a doctor, visit to family members, arrival and departure to work, provision of real estate and so on. However, the municipalities of Ljubljana can and may still use the curb all the time, as this does not cross the municipal borders. Therefore, the proposal to automatically recognise all customers of annual vignettes for 2020 is unacceptable, since all users were allowed to use the toll network. Moreover, there is no instrument to verify the actual use of toll roads or to show users that they did not use toll roads at that time and would therefore be entitled to a discount of 25 %. There is only no evidence of the purchase of an annual wine for 2020 and there cannot be evidence of any cost of purchasing an annual wine for 2021 and, of course, it also allows for a number of abuses. However, the draft law is also not feasible from a technical point of view, since if Dars adopted the law, he would have to make a number of changes to the organisation and the implementation of the sale of vineyards, which would require additional costs in addition to the loss of toll revenues. As we are well aware in New Slovenia that any loss of toll revenues means less resources for the necessary maintenance and development of highway infrastructure, we have not supported the proposal of the law on the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u4	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The most expensive annual vignette in the history of Slovenia is this year, as it lasted only 9 months. The measure restricting the movement of municipalities has prevented many people from using motorways indefinitely, and the government has decided not to extend the validity of this year's vignettes. That is why, in the SAB Group, we have tabled in the legislative procedure amendments to the Tolling Act, which would give the holders of annual vineyards for 2020 a 25% discount in the purchase of new annual vineyards. It's about a time when people couldn't use vignettes. The justification for the discount would be vignetted for 2021, proved by an invoice of the vignette purchased or a vignette coupon. With the support of the entire opposition, we have accelerated the process of dealing with citizens and citizens, and in this way we have sought to enable cheaper blames by the end of this year. Unfortunately, however, the SAB party's legal initiative did not receive coalition support for a 25% discount in the purchase of a new annual vignette. We do not believe in excuses in the Sab party, but in solutions, and if there is a will, solutions always exist. Residents bought vineyards for the purpose of use for the whole year. This means that they paid for something they could not use, so it is right for concessionaire Dars to pay them back the unused portion of the wine you owe the owners of this year when buying the wine for 2021, to recognise 25% of the discount. We believe that the proposal is good, fair, fair and financially sustainable. Given the fact that the Ministry of Infrastructure has more than 200 million Euros available in the 2021 budget last year, the possible loss of Darsa due to the loss of revenue estimated at EUR 20 million would easily cover. The government did not seek a solution because it did not recognise the importance of this problem for 90% of citizens. We point out, the vinjet owners only paid you fair and square. Nevertheless, many of them were not to be used for months. This is also confirmed by data on the decline of collected excise duties from motor fuels and the decrease in the density of traffic of the average daily annual traffic on the Slovenian motorway network. The government opinion was also pragmatically followed by the majority of coalition members, which will make the citizens of this year the most expensive in the history of Slovenia. Throughout the debate in the National Assembly, however, there remained a bitter taste, as many members of the government coalition labeled the proposal as populism and impractical. In the latter case, however, the lowering of the penalty for traffic offences, especially for speeding, was widely welcomed. Unadapted speed, too fast driving is the most common human factor that helps to cause accidents. In itself, it's enough to go over speed by 10 kilometers per hour, increase impact force by 77%, and exceed 20 kilometers by almost 3 times, and when they're dead on the road, we know who's going to be responsible. In the SAB party, we therefore regret that a fair proposal that would effectively address the impossible use of toll roads by the vast majority of the holders of this year's vineyards has not received sufficient support in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye. The health crisis caused by the Covid-19 epidemic has reached out to all times of our normal life. Some measures had to be followed up. Among other things, decisions relating mainly to restrictions on movement made it impossible for a wide range of road users to take advantage of the vignette in order to make use of the vignette to the normal extent. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposal to recognise 25% of the discount, including VAT, when purchasing annual vignettes for 2021 for users of toll roads who bought an annual vignette this year is well-intentioned. In Part [[?]] That the epidemiological situation required the adoption of certain decisions that prevented the use of roads for which vines were needed, we also fully agree with the applicant. Nevertheless, in our view, the novel should be viewed primarily in terms of public interest and financial implications for the state budget. In the Desus Group, we cannot agree with the proposer that the bill has no financial implications for the state budget and other public funds, since on the basis of the calculation of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the adoption of this novel to Dars would result in around EUR 50 million of the financial shortfall in revenues from tolling of passenger vehicles. Let me also recall the fact that the right to use roads for a certain period of time is paid with wine, no matter how many kilometres the vehicle actually takes on toll roads or how long it actually uses toll road. If, due to a measure prohibiting the cessation of regional and municipal borders, a particular user was not able to enter another municipality, this does not in practice mean that the toll road was not actually used. The fact is, despite the limitations of movement, many exceptions still apply, which still allow for movement between the congregations. The proposal foresees that the discount would automatically be granted to all those who bought the annual wine for 2020. In our Group of Members, we believe that there is no appropriate instrument to verify or demonstrate that they did not use toll roads at that time and are therefore entitled to this discount. There is only no evidence of the purchase of the annual wine for 2020 and cannot be the basis for the reimbursement of any costs related to the purchase of the annual wine for 2021. At the moment, health and, it appears, we are recording an increasing economic and social crisis, with packaged relief, with anti-Korona laws, and now it is turn seven, but we must be aware that the crisis in view of the projections will unfortunately not end in one year. Given that everything shows that in 2022 we will be saying good-bye to classical wines, as we are supposed to go fully to the system of electronic vineyards in the Republic of Slovenia, in our opinion we would like to discuss the lower price of electronic vineyards and help citizens in this way too, because that will be the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u8	Nice greetings to all present. The road is intended for the management and maintenance of the motorway network. The roadway also provides a stable, stable and long-term source for the repayment of the loans we have rented for the construction of motorways and their reconstruction. The users of motorways and fast roads have 2 ways to pay tolls in Slovenia, according to the category of vehicles that allow to be towed without stopping, so the road is faster, safer, more pleasant and environmentally friendly, to which we also tend. The new law is attractive, populist, for our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because the prices of the wine for 2021 would be valued for a quarter only for those holders who have an annual wine for 2020. It's more than obvious that for these 27.50 euros someone would like to share candy to gather the people. There would also be less money collected in Darsa's cash register if we bought the wine at a reduced price. This would detract from the maintenance of the motorway network and the loan, and the loans would be repaid over time. It is true that because of the crown of the crisis, we had restrictions on municipalities, statistical regions, that we stayed at home more, but those who drove daily to work and back were able to use highways. Deprived were perhaps only pensioners, unemployed, families who wanted to go on a weekend trip. Many have already bought or received a yearly vignette as a Christmas - New Year’s gift. Some of us were expected by the government, the ministries, to take at least a step towards the direction of price reductions before new ones went on sale or to extend the wines for 2020 until April 2021. We see an example of good practice in the field of rail transport, where passengers who, at the time of the decision of the valid ticket, had the latter since the re-establishment of public passenger transport were extended for actually unused days during the period of validity of the decree. The proposal on the table is absurd because it is actually unrealistic from a legal and technical point of view and shows discriminatoryness in the purchase of vignettes. If we think about it a little bit wider, the annual road passenger duty or road fare and car insurance should also be lower. We are pleased that the prices of fuel, petrol and diesel have fallen to almost €1 and that we have already been able to save not only on the highways here. Some of you just forget that. A display of regulation in other legal systems shows us that other countries are also facing an equal reduction in road traffic during Covid-19, as well as a halt to public life and the economy, but have not yet taken this action. After that, our country would be unique in this area. In the end, if I take it all together, the proposal of the law is unconceived, made quickly and in particular too late. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Bojan Podkrodšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u10	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law supplementing the Tolling Act, which did not receive support on the home labour body for further consideration, of course, for greater reasons. Alenka Bratušek’s legal initiative was largely impossible from a technical point of view. Of course, this law, which came to the mother's labour force, was thought to be reckless by the Slovenian Democratic Party, and it was kind of liked, above all, by this law, that it was populism. Of course, when we talk about these reasons in Slovenia, we forget when we talk about tolling, when we talk about blaming ourselves for driving from one part or another of Slovenia for more than 50 years on highways. Koroška and Bela krajina have been waiting for 50 years for this connection, which is why in the Slovenian Democratic Party, such an initiative by the party seems unthinkable and, above all, irresponsible. I am pleased that in this year the Ministry of Infrastructure has laid the foundation stone and the beginning of the construction of the highway in Koroška, and I am firmly convinced that we will all succeed – this is also our responsibility to start something from Bela Krajina. In short, we reject this initiative by Alenka Bratušek in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we absolutely do not accept it in order to proceed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For each use of the toll road or toll section and toll road facility, the toll shall be paid. Thus, Article 6 provides for the Tolling Act. The toll is therefore paid for the use of the road. The ban on the crossing of municipal borders has lasted or is still in force for a total period of 4 months, i.e. a third of the period of validity of the annual wine. And, of course, it is not true that citizens were able to use toll roads at that time if municipal borders were not to be crossed. In particular, during the spring period when the economy also cost, roads with the exception of transit trucks were empty. Although the situation is slightly different during the fall-winter period, as the economy is active, even if all workers were working on highways, half the people of toll roads could not use, except exceptionally. People have paid a vignette in full price to use roads that cannot be used. So, of course, we would expect the government to make it up to the people somehow. Proposals, such as partial reimbursement of purchases or extension of the validity of vineyards, have come across deaf ears in anti-korona packages and the proposal to recognise discounts for 2021 to the holders of vineyards seems reasonable and can also be technically feasible. With all the possible excuses of the government that Darsa is the only valid argument – this is that this cost cannot be his, because Dars did not limit traffic and all his obligations the road manager correctly fulfils. Therefore, compensation should be paid to citizens for the non-use of roads under the national budget. This did not happen, the wine for 2021 is sold at an unaltered price. According to the current position of the SDS's largest government party, at least unusual – The government led by this party has set the price of the blame on unrealistic ones in 2008 or if you want a populist 55-euro. She took advantage of the position for a popular pre-election move and, of course, the following year followed a logical reflection and then another one if Dars wanted to pay off more than 2 billion loans. However, the SDS party has always claimed that the current price of wine was too high, according to the government of Marjan Šarc, that it did not lower and push forward the price of 55 euros from 12 years ago. In the meantime, it has already led the government and has not lowered the price and is now running the government again, nor has it reduced the price, although most people are unable to use highways. Moreover, in the debate, Members of the SDS stressed all at once how cheap the blame is on us. And right now, it's time for the price of wine to go down and thus in 2021 at least partially compensate citizens for the inability to use motorways in the crown year. But no, the SDS party kept reading how the left governments were raising the toll and how favourable the price of guilt was under their authority. Now, if we had a valid reason to lower the toll in 2021 at least, they forgot and the vines are suddenly very cheap. This is therefore the principle policy of this Government and under the guidance of the SDS, and that is why we supported the proposal for a wine discount in the Marjan Sarca List. Knowing that a coalition with clear excuses will not confirm it. However, we wanted to point out the inadequacy of the government's policies and coalitions. Their over a decade of fighting for lower prices of vignettes ends up being cheap all the time. The fact that people are not able to drive through motorways because of the ban on crossing municipal borders, the government excuses that this is in principle true, but the highways are still here and if we should, we could ride them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u14	Thank you very much, President, for your word, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. Key solutions and objectives of the Toll Law Supplementation Act, as suggested by the applicants, could be included by the government in a series of measures that are more or less intended to mitigate the consequences of the COVID-19 crisis, but unfortunately are not. The proposed measure proposed to reduce the price of the wine for 2021 by 25 % of the existing price makes sense because, due to the restrictions on the movement adopted by the Government, the population and the inhabitants of the road section that we need did not use or had no opportunity to use. In the Social Democrats Group, we recognised the proposed solutions as good and also supported them on the labour market. Unfortunately, however, the proposed solutions have not been supported by the government and the ruling coalition, despite the fact that Members and Members of the coalition are so eager to praise what has already been done for our people in the measures we have taken so far. Unfortunately, they didn't get in the way. At the time of restrictions on movement between the municipalities, a large number of people were left without the possibility of using roads for which we need blame, excuses and arguments coming from the Ministry and some representatives of the coalition, because the law is not right and good and we simply cannot understand and not accept it. In the Social Democrats Group, as I have already mentioned, we have understood the proposed solutions and the objectives of the law as an additional measure, which in these times, difficult times, would go against our people and the people, and we have already supported it on the working body of the Social Democrats, but the law, despite the good purpose of the committee, has not received adequate support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mateja Udovč will present the position of the Group of Members of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u16	Respectable. By supplementing the tolling law, a discount of 25 % is proposed for the purchase of the annual wine for 2021. The applicants justify the need for this measure by restricting the movement to the municipality of residence, which therefore prevented our citizens from taking advantage of the annual blame for 2020. The epidemic has presented us with new, unknown challenges to which we have had to respond and to adjust our lives accordingly. In order to control the spread of the new coronavirus, the government has taken a number of measures, including the restriction of movement between municipalities. There are, of course, certain exceptions between restrictions, so this limitation measure cannot be sufficient reason for us to influence Darsa's financial operations and thereby put him at risk. What would the proposer say, for example, to the Koros or the Belokrans if the construction of the third development axis had been delayed because the DARS would not have sufficient financial resources? Would the proposer possibly propose an additional guarantee law, as we have already adopted at the end of 2019? With regard to the role played by the DARS, it is important to stress that the DARS, as the operator of the toll network, is obliged to ensure the availability of the network to all users without limitation, and that the DARS has also fulfilled its duty, irrespective of the measures taken that have been and are still necessary, so that we can get out of the crisis we are currently in. At the same time, we must not overlook the fact that more traffic on roads is inappropriate compared to the spring first wave during the second wave of the epidemic. I believe that the proponents have also noticed this. We did not support the Party's parliamentary group of the modern centre of law, because it is simply not well thought out. That the proposed solution is a cumbersome one comes from both the opinion of the government and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. In addition, a number of problematic aspects of the proposed solution were presented on the Committee. In doing so, the questionability of technical performance should be highlighted in particular. By contrast, the 25 % discount on the purchase of the annual wine for 2021 is to be applied on the basis of an invoice for the purchase of annual wines for 2020 or on the basis of a vignette coupon. This is problematic from several perspectives. The first is that the network of authorised wine sellers is very diversified and complex. Only information is already spoken that Slovenian wines are sold at a total of more than 2 000 300 places of sale both in Slovenia and abroad. The second aspect is that the bill does not provide for any guardian in the event that an individual would attempt to cash in both on the basis of an invoice and on the basis of a vignette coupon. Last but not least, today we must ask ourselves again who and how would cover the financial outflow of the DARS, which, when adopting the proposed amendment of the law, would have the consequences of the proposed measure. On the basis of all of this, and as is clear from the proposal for a law, it is only another welcome proposal from the proposer, but not a proposal that would allow for the equal treatment of both the operator and the users of the road infrastructure. Therefore, in the parliamentary group of the parties of the modern centre of the bill we were unable to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the member group Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u18	Dear President, thank you very much for your words and thank you very much to the lady who is cleaning up here today. The Tolling Act also reduces the price for annual vignettes in 2020 in a way that recognises a 25 % discount with all value added tax on the purchase of annual vignettes for 2021. The holder shall demonstrate the right to a discount by means of an invoice for the purchase of an annual wine for 2020 or with a corresponding vignette coupon. The question is whether the solution is most fair to all users who bought the annual wine for 2020, even to those who will not decide to buy the wine for 2021. We therefore support the solution in Levica to return part of the payment of the holders of annual vineyards for 2020, which we are saving for at least the majority of users with the proposed legal solution. Of course, we also supported the bill on the committee. Such a discount solution may also encourage the holders of this year’s guilt buy for the coming year. The holders of these vineyards could not use motorways and fast roads freely during the epidemic and, more precisely, from 30 March to 30 April 2020 and from 27 October 2020 to today. Although the regimes for permitted crossings changed at these intervals and within the statistical regions, certain residents of the vacated road were able to use them, but the restrictions did not allow them to freely use all the vacated roads in the Republic of Slovenia at their own discretion, which was the main reason for the purchase of vignettes. Most of the holders of the wine for 2020 could not benefit from one quarter of the year unless they had a legitimate reason to cross the municipal borders, so it is possible to go to work or some other obligation or could only benefit from the vacated roads within their own congregation. Thus, due to the Government's inability to manage the epidemic with other measures, users were prevented from free use of all roads of departure at their own discretion, so it is appropriate that the State compensates them for the resulting failure at least at a certain amount of the amount they have earmarked for the purchase of toll wines. The future government, because it is obviously incapable of doing so, will have to remove as soon as possible the restrictions that put this proposal before us, since otherwise we will face similar issues at the end of next year and the solutions will probably not be substantially different and otherwise settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed law on intervention measures to assist in the resolution of the consequences of the second wave of the epidemic of COVID-19, PKP-7, in the context of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister for Finance, Mag. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The government submitted to the National Assembly seven packages of measures to address the social, economic, financial, economic, epidemic-related issues of the Corona-19 virus. In this law, some measures are being extended by the Government, and some measures are being introduced in a new way, particularly in order to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic on both the economy and the population. The government is thus increasing funds for the economy's liquidity and is therefore increasing its dedicated assets in the funds, in particular in the Enterprise Fund. At the same time, through SID, the bank provides additional funds of 30 million for small, medium and micro enterprises. At the same time, of course, it also provides special funds via the SID of the bank, for companies that are most affected. Here I am thinking mainly of companies operating in service activities, in particular in the field of tourism, catering, transport. The government also proposes that transport companies, here I mean both school, rail and certain occasional bus services, be replaced by the funds they lost because of the interruption or reduction of transport. Certain companies have already received money from the budget and, in view of the procedures laid down by the CAP laws, individual companies can also recover funds. Therefore, they are allowed to return these funds in multiple instalments. This is guaranteed by the 7th antikron package. It is also changing, slightly changing and facilitating the Government's provision of so-called fixed costs to companies, namely fixed costs for those companies that had a falling income of more than 70%. For this, it provides EUR 2 000 to cover fixed costs per employee. Here I mean 2,000 euros per employee. And for those companies that have had a 40 to 70% loss of income, it allows and provides thousands of euros per employee per month. Given that many companies do not operate or operate to the full and that there are still certain procedures, particularly in the tax area, the judiciary and the like, here I think mainly about enforcement procedures, we also want to facilitate the business and management of these companies by temporarily suspending tax enforcement, as well as certain civil executions. We also provide additional funds for the maintenance of forest roads and, given that the conditions for a particular company to enter bankruptcy have changed, we also keep decisions on the start of bankruptcy under this law. These were some of the measures introduced by the Government in the field of economics. In the area of social protection, we propose temporary compensation for salaries for the loss of employment of EUR 513 gross per month, for the duration of the declared epidemic and, of course, for all those who have been terminated by the employment contract from 18 October 2020, for a business reason. We also introduce an allowance in the area of pensions. For those pensioners who have the lowest pensions, these are those pensions that are lower than €714. These pensioners were proposed by the Government or divided into three categories. And those who have a pension of less than €510 will receive a supplement of €300 at the beginning of January. Pensioners who receive a pension of between €510 and €612 will receive €230 in allowances and pensioners who have a pension of €610 and €714 will receive an allowance of €130 at the beginning of January. Students who have permanent residence in Slovenia will also receive 150 euro in additions. A single solidarity allowance is proposed by the Government for all children under 18 years of age. For large families, the Government proposes an allowance of EUR 100 or 200, depending on whether it is a family of three, in this case EUR 100 in addition, if it is four or more members of the family, in this case we propose to pay this family 200 euro in addition. We are also proposing an allowance for the care of the child and exceptional assistance of EUR 500 at the time of the birth of the child, from a crucial 1 January onwards, for a period of one year after the end of the epidemic. Here I think 1 January 2020. The student homes will be covered by the budget. That's the government's proposal. It will also be possible for any employee operating in an economy that is employed in the economy to receive an additional EUR 200 via his employer. There's a limit here. The government is proposing a limit here, twice the minimum wage, which means those who have a salary lower than twice the minimum wage. Also in the area of payments to those who work with patients who have become ill with Covid, we propose and these funds will be provided from the budget to add 30% to the hourly item. Here, in addition to those who are already receiving such supplements, think here primarily those who are already receiving, health workers, we suggest that for students and students who are working directly with patients who have become ill with Covid, that this hourly item should be increased, and that they simply get an increase of 30 per cent or up to 30 per cent from the budget. These are the most important measures proposed by the Government in the area of social protection in order to improve the social situation resulting from the epidemic. Package 7 has a financial impact estimated at EUR 550 million. This financial impact will, of course, be covered by the State budget, we will, of course, use, where possible, European funds, so that the funds will certainly be paid out as soon as possible, as soon as possible, as provided for in the law, so that payments are made as smoothly as possible. Procedures for obtaining such revenue are simplified and simple, in other words, some additional administrative burdens are neither prescribed for the economy nor for the population. Dear Members and Members, the Government proposes that the anti-Korona package No. 7 you take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. At its 52nd emergency meeting yesterday, as a working mother, the Finance Committee considered the draft law on intervention measures to help mitigate the consequences of the second wave of the Covid-19 epidemic, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption, following an urgent procedure. The amendments tabled by the Committee on Qualified Applicants are published on the websites of the National Assembly. All the amendments were 129. In an additional justification, the Minister of Finance presented the reasons why the Government had submitted a proposal for a law. He cited in particular the individual categories to which the bill was intended and presented individual solutions and the financial effects estimated by the Ministry of Finance to be between €550 million and €600 million. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the service had given a comprehensive written opinion. It drew attention to the diversity of areas addressed by the proposal for a law and gave key emphasis on derogations from individual laws, on problematic articles, and on the duration of individual measures. She also commented on the individual articles. The representative of the Council of State presented the position of the two Commissions of the Council of State, saying that the Commission for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, as the competent commission, supports the bill. The Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, as an interested Commission, does not support the bill. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee highlighted the speedy adoption of intervention laws, with wrong priorities and solutions that were not always relevant to the epidemic itself. They highlighted the lack of a strategy to manage the epidemic and the need to take account of and significantly increase the cooperation of the profession. A number of statuses were highlighted. For example, the status of religious employees, the status of self-employed persons in culture and the status of pensioners, students, students and children with special needs, as well as independent entrepreneurs. The problem of the recognition of professional qualifications in the healthcare sector has been highlighted and the need for efficiency and expertise in the adoption of measures which are often unclear, while other members and members of the committee felt that the proposal was urgent because the assistance was necessary. In particular, the following areas have been exposed: a crisis allowance, an allowance for work at risk jobs and a solidarity allowance for pensioners. The role of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, which are actively involved in financing the most vulnerable part of the economy, was also highlighted. In the course of the debate, the Minister of Finance provided answers to the questions raised and further presented some of the solutions envisaged in the proposal for a law. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered all 129 amendments. The written annex to this report shows which amendments have been adopted and which amendments have not been adopted. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, for whom Marko Bandelli is a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u24	Your Honor! The bill before us today is the seventh in a row to address the outbreak of the crown of the virus and, above all, its consequences. As usual, this proposal is for a large financial contribution of 550 million, if we are precise. We certainly welcome the fact that the Government has addressed a difficult social situation and has dedicated the last package of measures to vulnerable groups. Of course, the marriage text again found a number of proponents who were more than unsuccessfully tried to remove from the legal matter by the opposition parties with the amendments. In that time, a proposal fitting to the holiday spirit brought rich gifts to some groups and nothing to others. The last is the suspension of non-governmental funding, as the proposal of the Article has reached out to the only systemic source of funding for the budget fund for the development and innovation of non-governmental organisations. The form of funding as envisioned by the Government means that it is no longer a budget fund directly receiving earmarked funds, and consequently the NGO Development Fund would be abolished, and we have proposed that the opposition parties delete it. The marriage text also contains provisions which provide for the so-called compulsory retirement in both the public and private sectors, or the possibility of termination of employment without stating a business or reasonable reason in the event that the conditions for a retirement pension are met. This content is not new, of course, and we are all very well acquainted with it, in particular with the Constitutional Court, which, in its assessment of the Public Finance Balance Act, stated that such regulation would be permissible only in the case of legitimate reasons, which, according to our assessment, is certainly not the case. In the opposition, we have proposed deleting all the above-mentioned provisions, which has succeeded with the help of SMC and Desus. However, we have been less successful in some other contested decisions, so it is obvious that students have also been on the government's bad list, as the government has allocated only €150 of the crisis allowance to them again. Students at all times of the epidemic, other than €150 in the first wave, were not assisted by any assistance from the State while they were facing a loss of income from occasional and temporary work, the cost of purchasing technical equipment for distance studies resulting from epidemics, subsistence costs and so on. We are in the SAB, so we have proposed that funds for the priests should be allocated in the same way to the students. The Roman Catholic Church is rich enough to replace the loss of income, and many families of students do not have the option. We are in the SAB Group, so we have submitted a supplement to regulate the basic monthly student income of €700 for the last three months, following the example of religious officials who, according to the government proposal, were still good this year. We also addressed bus operators and tried to provide them with a longer period of compensation for the loss of income suffered by them due to the complete closure of the country. Most of the proposals in the SAB and other opposition groups we signed were slightly rejected, which I cannot say for the coalition supplements. As if they had not yet been satisfied, they suggested that those legal persons who had been punished in the past for violating the measures were not entitled to State aid. Thus, such companies will be punished twice and the provision will even apply retroactively, i.e. backwards. Such a provision seriously interferes with the foundations of the state, the rule of law and the principle of trust in law. I believe that in order to answer the question of where the government got the idea for such compensatory measures, it is not necessary to think too much, especially when the Croatian recreational tourist centre opened its doors a few days ago despite government restrictions and bans [[sign for the end of the debate]] . Regardless of what we consider to be the practice of the ski resort, the government’s conduct in this way is at least controversial if not unacceptable and at the same time absolute abuse of power. We simply no longer have words to describe these vindictive actions of the government. However, what we can stress and highlight will be repeated; the government has failed to manage the epidemic on all fronts. Restrictive measures do not produce real results [[a character for turning off the microphone]] The public health department is going through the stitches, and the number of deaths is still too high. These are the facts that tell us everything. Janševa The government is concerned about matters that are not necessary or necessary for the resolution of the epidemic and the health crisis behind the smoke screen covid-19. Moreover, they may cause more damage than the epidemic itself. Government priorities are obvious as we can see, elsewhere. It calls for everything to be replaced as quickly as possible by a new government that will primarily save lives, work for people and prepare for the Presidency of Slovenia of the EU Council. It's time to stop and cut the Gordian [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u25	Dear colleague [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u26	Driver [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u27	Please finish. It's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u28	and show the citizens that, even in difficult times, it is possible to rule in a more reasonable and acceptable way. [[…]] This is not how we will support the proposal for a law in the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u29	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. The position will be presented by Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! By intensifying the pandemic, it is increasingly debated what the world will look like after its end. Economists, political scientists, scientists from various fields have expressed their expectations about how the crown will change the economy, governance systems, the European Union and many other areas of our lives. Everything depends on how long the crisis will take, how long human and material losses will take. Apparently, the world after her won't be able to get back into the old tracks. Any change in the material realm means at the same time a change in our way of thinking. The fight against the Crown requires a kind of strategy and fighting techniques. Persistence in positions needed to stand by, to endure their pains, hardships and fears, to face the dead in which we recognize our own passing. But no virus can remove the human need to see in natural and social actions some sense. Behind all the doubts and uncertainties lies that basic human psychological need for a logical world in which all its logical justification, everything that is happening, has a deeper meaning that needs to be understood, read and understood, in which, in the end, we get exactly what we deserve, a higher reality today manifests itself in all its power against microbiological evil. Therefore, these principles should be an indication of good intentions for every human being. The dignity of the individual, the principle of common and common good, solidarity, cooperation, special care for those who are further affected by the uncertainty caused by the socio-economic problems caused by the pandemic. Since this March, we have been taking anti-Korona packages of measures. It's seven o'clock today. Each of the anti-Korona laws is a reflection of an emergency situation, a reflection of an attempt to manage the situation and a long-term reduction of the harmful consequences for the population and the economy. Let us not blind ourselves; there is simply no easier way to take these measures. Members of the DeSUS Group stress the implementation of the most important measures already implemented: the exemption from the payment of contributions to employees who work – €435 million; the refund of the wage for temporary waiting for work – 330 million; the supplement to the threat and special burden during the epidemic – 202 million; exceptional support in the form of basic income – 156 million; the exemption of contributions to all social insurance – 125 million; and the single solidarity allowance to the most vulnerable groups – 92 million euros. In today's package of measures, it is also necessary to evaluate and highlight the most important: for us, certainly a solidarity allowance for pensioners of a total value of EUR 67 million; a crisis allowance for employees who work and have a salary of up to two minimum wages of EUR 60 million; subsidisation of reduced working time with the possibility of extending to the end of EUR 90 million in 2021; an allowance for work in risky situations of EUR 23 million; and a whole series or set of lending measures; provision of bank guarantees for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; and funding for investments and operating assets in tourism and hospitality activities totalling EUR 220 million, which is 40% of the total projected expenditure under this law, estimated at EUR 552 million. All of these are the reasons why Members of the DeSUS Group will unanimously support the proposal of the Law on Intervention Measures to Endorse the Consequences of the Second Wave of the COVID-19 Epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u32	Respectable. Today's bill is a problem of half a billion euros. I repeat, half a billion euros. The current power is very broad-minded and the people on the ground are dissatisfied. There is no reasonable explanation for such a situation. At times, electoral votes have been bought by a few million-euro bill, billions are now at the table, and people are still not satisfied. Such a state of social dissatisfaction worries us, for we do not know why this dissatisfaction is. This law covers a large part of social life, and it is a matter of different industries whose limited law interferes. It's impossible to make everyone happy. Within the family itself, there are disagreements about how to unify the whole country. If a benefit is granted to one of the social groups, the other shall attach its pot. There's something that needs to be pulled forward. Of course, we cannot agree with all the measures that are on the table today because they are not in line with our client programmes. Sterile justice at the level of the legislative body cannot be achieved, but we are concerned about something completely different. The Slovenian national party opposed the entry into the European Union. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that the Union shall take measures to establish and ensure the functioning of the internal market. The internal market, however, covers the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital. We're wondering, aren't we? The flow? Against? For example, I give a theoretical example of a hair salon which can operate in Malta, which is not allowed in Ireland. Is this really a single internal market? Or more specifically, while our country of trade is closing down, consumers are shopping carefreely in neighbouring Austria. The same situation applies on ski slopes. I also wonder where the supervision of third-country nationals is, because when they enter Slovenia, they say they are doing transit. Truth is, you won't believe it, but it's another. They get lost fast at the gas station. Such a situation strengthens dissatisfaction among people. Is it really about ensuring a single internal market? Our entrepreneurs can't make a profit while they can cross the border. There is no equal treatment here, even though we are all supposed to operate in a common single market. People want to work. I want to say that the European Union has completely cancelled in response to the health crisis. There are no single measures for all Member States. We are wondering why, at European level, uniform measures are not being taken to place a single burden on the economies of all Member States. At the end of this health crisis, there will be even greater differences between the rich north and the poor south. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Felice Žiža will present the position of the Group of Italian and Hungarian National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u34	The Honourable President of the National Assembly! Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! [[Address in Italian and Hungarian]] The season between Christmas and the new year is a time for family, for friends, for joy and also for hope. During this time, the cannons shut up. This year's holidays are not like this, so we all have to win the Covid-19 epidemic as soon as possible. Of course, it would be best for all of us to unite with the common goal of defeating the common enemy. Of course, we will be able to take strict and consistent account of the basic measures already taken to control the viral crown epidemic until we expect sufficient amounts of vaccine against the crown. These are already known measures, such as wearing defensive masks, regular and thorough washing or disinfection of deadlines and taking into account the safety, social distance. The government has done its job in this work, has prepared a new proposal for an intervention law to help mitigate the consequences of the second wave of the Covid-19 epidemic. By means of the 7th package, it has extended all the measures already in force and has introduced several new measures. In the Italian and Hungarian Group of Members of the National Community, we will support the proposed law. We are also aware that, when measures are being taken to reduce time, certain questions are not being answered, in particular as regards both national communities. This is why we call on the National Institute for Public Health, not for the first time in this epidemic and the other authorities that carry out and supervise the implementation of measures in the national mixed areas of the municipalities where both indigenous national communities live, to use the Italian and Hungarian languages in their work in the Slovenian language to better raise awareness and inform all members of both national communities, of course in the course of the course of the epidemic itself. In the Italian and Hungarian national groups, we all want a good holiday, and together we can succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Suzanne Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, and welcome to me as well. We already have the 7th anti-Korona marriage package, the law on intervention measures to mitigate the consequences of the second wave of the COVID-19 epidemic. As the epidemic does not subside, the government was forced to extend the epidemic by 30 days on 18 December. The purpose of the law before us is to mitigate the consequences and impact of the epidemic on the population and the economy. The measures taken in this marriage will help many citizens, in particular those who are socially weak, pensioners, students, children, families, help to maintain jobs, help health care, carriers, social and health workers. The key solutions brought by the law before us today are the following: guarantees for bank loans for liquidity, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the allowance for employees whose last salary has not exceeded twice the minimum wage of EUR 200, the total measure amounts to around EUR 60 million, the reimbursement of costs for transport operators, the possibility of remuneration of funds received, changes in fixed costs, the coverage of up to EUR 2 000 per month, if the company has lost more than 70 % of its income, the introduction of a temporary payment of salaries due to the loss of employment of EUR 513 for the duration of the epidemic for persons who have lost their jobs from 18 October to the end of the employment contract, the solidarity allowance for those pensioners who receive a pension of up to EUR 714 per EUR 130 per pension and the amount of EUR 213 per EUR per pension to EUR 213 per EUR per EUR per EUR. In total, this measure weighs as much as €67 million. A solidarity allowance for all children under 18 years of age of 50 euros, here I would like to express my sincere thanks to all those who supported the amendment launched by the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Finance Committee yesterday. We have been advocating the universal child allowance all the time, and we want to in some way separate family and social policy, so of course we are assessing that all children deserve the same contribution, and in some ways we are assessing that this is just a step in the right direction. An additional 100 euros will be given to families with 3 children, an additional 200 euros will be given to families with 4 and more children. Students will also receive a solidarity allowance of 150 euros. A 500 - euro - child - born emergency will be provided to mothers who have given birth since the birth of the first child. 1. 2020. This solidarity, emergency assistance was also corrected by an amendment to yesterday's Finance Committee. The hazard allowance and the specific burdens will be given to those who are particularly striving during an epidemic that is active in the field of health or social protection. The costs of establishing the red zone will be borne. This package will also help performers, or in this package we will do, I will say, some correction, because in PKP 6, we have forgotten about those who are helping families at home. That's what we're fixing now. The student and student allowance will also be given to those who work directly with Covid patients and, of course, funds will also be provided for the purchase of rapid tests. However, we have not forgotten the firefighters who will receive compensation due to the loss of income by the end of 2020, namely those companies with the first category of EUR 2 000, the second category of EUR 3 000, the third category of EUR 3 000,500, the fourth category of EUR 4 000 and the fifth category of EUR 4 000,500. An additional thousand euros for those in the local community who have the status of a middle unit. The estimated value of the measures is between €550 million and €600 million. In the SDS, we will, of course, support the 7 antikron package. We want you to stay healthy and all good in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Brane Golubovic will present the position of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u38	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, welcome! People are always the key to effective control of the epidemic and its consequences. People with whom the government must build a partnership based on trust. You know, people will understand and accept a lot if decision makers communicate with them in a professional and respectful way. This is also achieved by creating the most predictable environment in which people will know at least roughly what lies ahead in the future in order to manage the epidemic and its consequences. Predictability is created by timely adoption of measures that must be simple, logical, fair and also feasible. Three intervention laws, within two months of the outbreak being declared, do not create a predictable environment, but show that the Government of Janez Janša is also very inefficient in dealing with the epidemic of the approach. The responsible and effective Government, which is not available, would, on the basis of experience and analysis from the first wave in the summer, draw up a strategy to deal with the second wave, including a set of measures to mitigate the epidemic on the basis of which it would prepare a solution for businesses, craftsmen and employees, as well as to help the socially disadvantaged. With such a strategic approach today, we would not be taking any retroactive measures, but the government would have prepared one basic intervention law by the end of the summer to put in place all the measures that would have been activated under certain conditions. None of the measures that we adopt in PKP 5, PKP 6 or today's law are such that we cannot predict it over the summer. We had known in the summers that older citizens' homes would also need state financial assistance and something else. We also knew in the summer that all those working with Covid should be provided with special awards and an honest supplement. We already knew in the summer that there would be a need to co-finance the rapid tests. We knew that certain services would have to be closed again at the second wave. We have known this in the summers and that businesses and craftsmen will need to be helped effectively to do so, and this has not been done. For example, in Austria, Germany, they were able to do so when part of the service activities had to be closed in order to curb the spread of the virus, they immediately activated the aid of 75 % and 80 % of their revenues in the comparable period of last year, provided, of course, that they kept all employees. It was also clear in the summer that the second wave would cause social distress, and the government should draw up a plan on who, when and under what conditions, will receive help. Since the Government has not done so, we now accept in the PKP7 various unique and monthly solidarity allowances for individuals, even for individuals, but at the same time we do not know how the Government has determined who and how many supplements it will receive, and for what period, which causes bad will and tension between groups and generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u39	[[There's a riot in the hall.]] Your Honor, let's call it off. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Dear colleagues, the ground has calmed down. I suggest we move on. Do you still have time? We're just gonna keep going, aren't we? How many more? 54 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u40	I guess the government wasn't happy with my point of view. [[Laughing in the hall]] And I'm still going to cut it a little short. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Anyway, I'm gonna cut it down a little bit because I don't even know where I ended up. The government of Janez Janša has heard all the suggestions of the List of Marjan Šarc [[sign for the end of the debate]] and continues to work fairly or unscheduledly to solve the epidemic. As a result of this, PKP7, which again did not provide optimal solutions for businesses and craftsmen who had to shut down their business or restrict their business, is also not suitable solutions for young people, mentioning only these two groups. As a result of this failure to act, they are and will be disastrous for the whole of society. Why? [[sign for the end of the debate]] Since the government has neglected part of the economy and has put jobs at risk, and has forgotten the young generation that will form our society in the near future, these are also the two groups that will contribute most to the repayment of the loans that the Government has accumulated and the non-systemic spending under the cover of the epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u41	Dear colleagues, I am adjourning the session in half an hour. I suggest we wait a little longer for things to calm down. In the meantime, you can call around a little if you have relatives. So we continue at 1:00. (The sitting was suspended at 12.25 p.m.) (The sitting resumed at 13.01.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u42	Dear colleagues, we proceed with the break of point 2. The position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members will be presented by Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u43	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Let's hope that's what it was, if it had to be. Let me begin today with the words of the leader of our parliamentary group at yesterday's meeting of the committee that addressed this seventh proposal of the package law. I wish we could support this proposal. Even after six attempts at anti-Korona packages, the epidemic has not yet been controlled and its consequences are deepening. The aid for maintaining economic activity and employment towards businesses runs too slowly, and improvements and upgrades from previous packages are also taking place too slowly. The fiscal world reminds us that the government has already spent more than 2 billion of the 2.6 billion it has invested in the fight against the epidemic. We have previously warned that the package approach has already reached its limits. In times of time, temporary package intervention in systemic laws was still understandable, and now we have reached a point of complexity when the government no longer has a proper review of the solutions taken. This only applies to Members and the public. The package approach prevents us from proposing improvements to the pressing problems, and we can only deal with areas that the government decides to open with a bill. For example, today we do not have the opportunity to propose adjustments to the non-functioning liquidity scheme for the economy or to provide faster aid for companies that need to cover all costs without income and receive partial state aid only two months later. The package approach is therefore simple only for the government and for everything else is a headache. Packages allow the government to substantiate in the law content that does not have a real connection with exceptional circumstances. And despite the fact that the government has encountered opposition to such content in each package so far, the seventh package has only succeeded in making its mistake. No package has yet contained so much planted and unnecessary content. The decision by the ruling board to remove some of the most controversial content from the law, such as the abolition of the NGO Fund, forced retirement and a sustained increase in contributions to religious workers, gives us at least minimal optimism, as they show that after almost 10 months of government, however, they are a little more prepared to accept criticism and some step back. Unfortunately, we have spent 10 hours of debate on this vote. Instead of discussions on improvements, we have dealt with the requirements for the withdrawal of unnecessary content. Instead of complementing existing solutions that would benefit people, we have been offended by the vengefulness of the rulings, which have been most importantly complemented by the prohibition of access to assistance for those who have been punished for violations of the decrees. Despite serious warnings from the legal service, the rulings continued. Amendments have been adopted to assist all those punished for violating government decisions. Whether this will be true in return, the rulers cannot explain. Such a vengeful act will devalue the wisdom mentioned earlier in order to remove unnecessary content from the law. However, the time and energy we have not devoted to trying to improve government proposals cannot be regained. The important problem with this government is the belief that it will solve problems by throwing money out the window. As long as she hears expressions of gratitude from the street, she is confident of her good work. Therefore, this time the package is also filled with solidarity supplements for various vulnerable groups. It is not that the victims would not be allowed to add, on the contrary, but in view of the situation it is necessary and responsible to ask ourselves, for the first time, is this really the best way to help the most vulnerable, secondly, we have really captured all those who have been most affected by the epidemic. Thirdly, will such help really help alleviate their distress? And for the fourth time, maybe we should include someone else or change the way in which the aid is granted. Such questions for the Government are obviously not desirable, nor are proposals for improvements. If we can be satisfied that the rulings have withdrawn at least part of the content planted this time, their unwillingness to cooperate will clearly reveal the fact that they have not re-adopted any of the opposition's proposals. For epidemic supplements for all patients working with infected [[sign for the end of the debate]] , in order to make up for the revenue of companies which have been suspended by the Government by decrees, for the reimbursement of money to the purchasers of school tickets for passenger transport, for the solidarity allowance for parents of children with special needs, to which you, respected by the ruling, have completely forgotten. For these and many other proposals, we will continue to work for the Social Democrats at this long meeting today. And in the Group of Social Democrats, we still hope that it will also be with our improvements. [[a character for turning off the microphone]] The law became so that it would not have to be opposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! Today we continue to take measures to curb the covid-19 epidemic to help the economy and individuals. For we have already adopted seven packages of measures, and although we often adopt intervention laws to mitigate the effects of covid-19 in time distress, we need to take time to consider solutions in order to cover the wider population. Like all previous anti-Korona packages, the last set of measures to help end the consequences of the second wave of covid-19 is being referred to various target groups, which, during the debate on the draft law at yesterday's meeting of the parent committee, have somehow lost sight of the repeated apparent measures that are not intended to achieve their purpose. Let us look at concrete proposals so that we do not just talk about general concepts. Although we have heard some criticism at the expense of the supplements granted to the PKPs to the target population, we cannot say that the possibility of receiving a crisis allowance to pensioners, students, recipients of a child supplement, children with special needs, parents with multiple children and older farmers is bad and that this does not fall within the intervention law that we are considering today. These solutions, which we confirmed on the parental committee yesterday, are intended to resolve the pressures of those individuals and pursue their purpose and, of course, we will support them in the SMC today. We will also find solutions in the bill, which touch on one of the more resilient financing delays of the film industry in Slovenia. We supported the solution for this part of the audiovisual sector at the parental committee meeting with a few additions. On the basis of this, it is possible to include projects in the current NRP on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and not more on a proposal from the Government, namely those projects where the share of co-financing from the country's budget will be less than EUR 600,000. In this way, we will avoid long-term and unnecessary bureaucracy in the validation of film projects. Audiovisual, literary and music creators who have been unable to carry out their profession for months and who are in difficult social conditions are now provided with a legal basis for the payment of extraordinary cash assistance of 25 per cent in the previous year of the collected authors' fees. However, it is no less important to take a measure to partially cover the fixed costs of enterprises already established by the PKP-6 and the reimbursement of these costs can now be doubled to EUR 2 000 per month per employee. We are pleased that measures for employees through public works have also found their way to the draft law. In the SMC, we have proposed that, if they work mainly in social security institutions, they should also be paid an allowance for work in risky situations, as is the case with public servants of 65% of the hourly basic wage line of the employee. A lot of attention, not only on the parental committee, but also in the public has led to a proposal for a measure to delete one of the funding sources of the NGO fund. This is an income fund not earmarked by taxpayers for the financing of generally beneficial purposes, for the financing of political parties or representative unions, even though they could be covered by a law governing income. The development of the non-governmental sector must be one of our country's priorities, not its poverty by eliminating a stable source of funding. In the SMC, of course, we have proposed deleting this harmful article and this amendment has been adopted. We have also had a very dynamic debate on the working body with regard to a measure that, in meeting the conditions for retirement, could end the working relationship for individuals and would thus retire. This measure raises a number of issues and dilemmas, and we have pointed out in the SMC the various aspects of such retirement, including the fact that, in this way, jobs are not actually released exclusively for young people, but are available to all those seeking employment in the labour market. It is also important to know that we are one of the countries with very low working levels of the elderly, which should be encouraged in the future. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal of the law. Above all, we wish you a peaceful holiday and all the good.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u47	This time the PKP is the seventh show you know about the government of SDS. And the seventh time Janez Janša doesn't know. As soon as there are no fees in the game for friends or abolished democracy, the extension of Viktor Orban will be drawn to the entire line. The consequences are more than 2,000 dead, the number one tragic statistics in the world, social distress for people and completely illiterate laws. PKP-7 is only accepted a month after the previous package. Incompetence, inefficiency and absence of planning are obvious. The legislative and legal service has torn it apart on as many as 50 pages and, to illustrate the two left-hand deadlines of the government I describe, in the PKP-7 which is being adopted today, among others, the opening of trades for two weeks. No, I'm not talking about coming Sundays. One of the open weeks happened two days ago. PKP-7 is in short the same schizophrene as government decisions, after which once something is open, not once again. There are exceptions unless there are exceptions. The measures are adapted to government appetites by authority and friends around it. The punishments, however, are given to unsuspecting families with croissants and food suppliers who eat burek. Not just the billboard, after the new help will be lost all those who put the madness of the extreme right on the edge. If you don't listen to John, you'll be the Golden One. If you don't, you'll be hungry. That was precisely what was written at yesterday's board meeting in law, when solidarity aid from the PKP packages is suddenly no longer aid and is no longer solidarity, but is linked to the fact that its recipient did not violate this or that government decision. Of course, it's not an epidemic. These have been few in the last eight months compared with those with which the government of Janez Janša wants to subdue the country. It is an attempt to terrorise society, because only by stepping up the repression can the government of Janez Janša be held close to the authorities. Industrial zones where the virus is actually spreading remain intact in the meantime. [[Incomprehensible]] Capital gains must be turned around, even if the average worker dies because of the epidemic or because of social distress. After all, it's Janez Janša's government. Let the people find themselves as they know, and they've known for a week. And in PKP-7, the tenants who can't pay the rent were drawn up again. Some disabled workers, those who work part-time will be left without a solidarity allowance. While credited to households had already been frozen loans a few months ago or had been given this option, banks were still left with the option to continue charging interest. The students who are working with the student work will continue to be without adequate assistance, to survive with the struggles of 150 euros, even though we have students from wealthy families who do not need these 150 euros and we have a working majority of students who rely on student work to survive at all and have nothing to do with these 150 euros. The cloft is not saved either by employees in health care or in the homes of the elderly. Instead of a 65% supplement for heavy and hazardous work in the epidemic, PKP 7 cuts the increase by a collective contract by more than half for all secondary staff. We are saving all these groups of socialists with amendments where and as far as we can, something in this CAP, something in the past PKPs, and it is very obvious that the Government will not and will not. [[Incomprehensible]] Instead, she found money for clerics, corporations of the Roman Catholic Church, hoping for 700 euros in basic income from our common budget, which is fueled by taxes. And this UTD for Claire is being fueled by a cultural budget that's already on the dog. The government also found energy for attacking NGOs and forcing them to retire for older workers. Money for regime parasites epidemics for everyone else, that's the government of the extreme right. And in Levica we will therefore vote against PKP 7. But we have attached a bunch of amendments to try to protect the holes, at least some, at least the ones that are the hottest, we will certainly not succeed at best, because there are simply too many. The government has made every effort to get them into the marriage as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u48	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the spirit of the 30th anniversary of the plebiscite of Slovenia alone, with the experience of a historicly different Christmas celebration, among other things the most beautiful family holiday, especially the holiday of hope, in the optimism of the smiling faces of older citizens in homes for older citizens who were the first to be vaccinated before yesterday with a modern and safe vaccine against the disease COVID-19, we accept the seventh marriage package to mitigate the consequences of the second wave of the epidemic, which is financially severe about € 550 million. A brief consideration of the last ten months that we have spent shows once again the characteristics of the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes, such as patience, solidarity, patience, faith, humanity. My gift to all of this. We can defeat the virus together, all together, an individual never. My gift is also to world science, which in a very short time developed an effective and safe vaccine. This is the light at the end of the tunnel, at the end of the darkness. The vaccine is not enough. Vaccination is crucial, with as many citizens as possible. Only then will we be able to make projections to undo the epidemic, when we can expect the beginning of life in a new normality. Ladies and gentlemen! Human experience is that you don't come out of any crisis the same way you came in. You can be better or you can be worse. Our mission, my fellow Members and Members, is to get better. The government often meets with representative economic organisations, as well as the management of health institutions, with one purpose: to take as effective measures as possible to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic and to limit the spread of infections. The weight of the package is presented by various aid instruments to the economy. Of course, people and residents as well. We are pleased that these instruments of economic assistance are guided by the social market economic model that we have always advocated in New Slovenia. I would also like to highlight solutions in the area of family policy, in the field of child care with special needs and assistance to all children. One day we're going to legitimize the universal children's allowance. Vice-President of the Mag. Matthew Tonin has already proposed to the government 500 euros in assistance to newborns born on 1 January of this year, who will be born all there up to one year after the epidemic was stopped. I would also like to point out assistance to pensioners of approximately 67 million, which will be paid in early January, assistance to self-employed people in culture and so on. Aid to voluntary firefighters due to income losses derived from the traditional wearing of Christmas-news holiday calendars. Allow me, colleagues and colleagues, to at least some amendments [[sign for the end of the debate]] and the articles have enough freedom to tell us what we meant by certain solutions, and I also ask you not to sit on the negative interpretations of these solutions. Among these is retirement. It's not forced retirement, it's not forced, it's not what's said. This measure has been supported by different not only representative parties [[sign for the end of the debate]] employers' organisations, including by the associations of municipalities, but of course more in the debate on amendments. Of course, the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats of the PKP-7 will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u50	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SMC Group of Members and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members. First he wants the word "minister" and then we'll give him a chance to report. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u51	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, in the views of the groups of Members, the views of the groups of Members have highlighted some of the key points on the actions of the CAP-7 and, of course, one question is also interesting, particularly whether this is the best way or whether this is the right way to help people. And whether all people or all social groups of people, social groups, are covered by these measures. Now, of course, some Members and Members of Parliament have stated here what measures are missing and which social groups are missing and so on. I would like to stress here for the first time that we are giving financial resources to people without specifying what they should actually use them for. In short, if we take the case, we give, this government gives people a supplement for large families, gives students a supplement when they have a baby. And we're not saying that if I take the last case, but this money, you buy a baby chair with this money, but this money can be used for what people want to use it for, which is essential to use it or whatever, the decision is on people. As a result, measures have not been defined in such a way as to say now that we will give additional money to people for transport costs, for example, or additional money to buy such or such or other goods. One measure was slightly different. These were tourist vouchers of all these measures. Now, of course, other solutions are possible, but we feel that people should be left to decide what they will use this money for. In this regard, of course, the question is how will people decide to use this money in one way or another, but this is their decision. We think it would be unwise to give money to people for certain purposes. We can give for certain purposes, such as so-called tourist vouchers, where we wanted to replicate certain services and thus help certain activities. This was the only such measure that was actually aimed at some particular use. All the other measures are, so to speak, general. Finally these measures, the aim of these measures is to increase the consumption of the population. Population consumption has decreased here and, on the other hand, the country's consumption has increased. What I would like to say about these measures, and these are all measures, is that these are direct measures, which means that people get financial resources to get money or are now students, families, pensioners and so on. We believe this is the most effective way. For example, we believe that a measure is emerging because it will be adopted by me or some countries, for example, by a halvation of the value added tax rate. We do not believe that, because we are going to halve the value added tax on clothing for half the price of that tax or shoe or any other goods. We don't think so. I personally think not and it's better that you give this help directly to people and they decide what they're actually going to spend that money for. The question was asked whether this was the best way, or whether it was the best way. Yes, we do, and this also proves to us some of the analyses that have been made in Europe, that such a way is the best and directly helping people and they decide for themselves what they will use it for. It is similar or similar, although not the same is also used in helping the economy. In particular, we are helping the economy with measures to compensate the wage for the worker. We can talk about whether this compensation is 100 per cent, 80 per cent of what this compensation is, but this compensation simply ensures that companies with employees will remain on the market and there is no provision for which some of you have also proposed that then the company should not forgive and so on. However, if we look at the last 9 months, we can find that companies have not, due to the epidemic, substantially forgiven. This leap to make an enormous increase in unemployment does not show any data. Moreover, if we look at the data and compare it between the spring months and the autumn months, then we see that actual unemployment has not increased significantly, I am talking about statistics. In doing so, we are aware that statistics are not everything, of course. We are aware that a number of jobs have been retained due to remuneration. We are also aware, of course, that this will not last indefinitely, that it will not last very, very long, but we have the vaccine and the vaccine is the solution here, of course, also that economic processes are normalised, that financial processes, economic processes, are normalised. Of course, I will say why we are taking such measures and why we are proposing such measures and why we are not proposing different measures. I have mentioned here two options which may also be different measures. There may be specialities somewhere. However, if you look at it, the measures are designed this way. The third point I would like to stress is that we are aware of the efforts made by health care today, the efforts made by all healthcare professionals to help patients and to contain the virus as much as possible. This is why, according to the previous situation, according to the health funding situation in the past, a change has been made to ensure that the budget provides this money, not a health insurance company, but the budget and budget also provides money for "upgrading", construction, health capacity, equipment, vaccines, testing and so on and so on. Here there has been a shift, including a shift in this, in the budgets for 2021 and 2022, that the funds from the budget have increased. In the past health budgets, there was, in fact, no money or planning for a substantial amount of money. Now it's getting bigger. While we must count that, of course, the Health Insurance Company of Slovenia has its source, this is a contribution to health insurance and that there is more than 3 billion and a half euros – 3 billion and a half euros a year. Of course, in the future, this is shown by all data, both international and the data we have ourselves, we will devote more to health care as a percentage of gross social product. However, of course, this money will mainly be devoted to modernising health care and staff. From this point of view, of course, we also have to say here that this crisis has in some ways also set up a mirror of some activities, mainly mirrors in re- or re-evaluate where we are. And, PKP measures and also PKP7 are based on these foundations. So much perhaps about when it was a question of whether it was the best way to help the population and help the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Now, there has been a slight change in the process, as amendments in the emergency procedure can be tabled until the articles are discussed. I will read again, first of all, we have an amendment to Articles 1 and 70b. The amendment of the SMC Group to Article 1 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 70b and we will therefore discuss both articles together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 1 and 70b and the two amendments of the SMC Group and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members. I'm opening a debate. Is it an application request? Please sign up. First he gets the word Elena Zavadlav Ushaj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, chairman. Quite a welcome minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament. We have seven packages of action ahead of us. Although we would like to show in the opposition that we have a package of measures that does not help both citizens and the economy, I would like to say out loud that you are deceiving those who listen to you. You are deceiving the fact that a number of people have probably turned to you and told you that, at the expense of the measures, both in the field of the economy and in the field of social affairs, he has overcome this crisis, and he has defeated that the company has survived the crisis. In fact, if there were no measures, a company would be closed today and they would be employed at the employment agency, which means they would also be charged with the budget. And since this is actually the package that has focused most on the economy, it is true that it also affects the social sector, but in this package is a great focus on the economy, its financial impact is around €550 million and it touches on the activities most affected by the epidemic. An important measure was the compensation for fixed costs, mainly because this tendency by economists, who turned to the Chamber of Commerce as well as to the Chamber of Commerce, was increasing because the loss, which was actually at the expense of what they were unable to cover, actually increased these costs. And this measure draws closer to the aspirations of economists to help them cover up what they have not done so far. Then it is of great importance, and it must also be said that compensation is paid for the loss of service during the declared epidemic. Because a number of people who lost their jobs, because despite the measures, they have shown that some activities will not be able to continue to this extent or not to continue their activities, but will have to be restructured, and for this reason the employees have been given a job, lost a job and were given out of work. This compensation also helps to overcome problems in the economy. At the same time, transport operators who have been shown to actually have a large income drop at the expense of being stopped during the epidemic. It is also important to stress that why these measures are taken so quickly and that it is important to take them quickly because they respond to changes in relation to the epidemic, given the number of people infected, in view of the problems in the economy. And it must be said that in the first package and all the next packages, it was impossible to predict what we see today, the kind of image we see in the economy today and the kind we see among people. That is why there are so many packages, and that is why there are so many different measures. It was then pointed out that this package also addresses some measures to be taken back, particularly the closure of trade. Of course you know why date 27 was meant to be open trade. You're deceiving that this was a retroactive measure. No, the measure was meant to go forward. But because of the situation that arose, not because of the coalition's parties, but because of the opposition and the delay in handling this package of measures, this date was written in, and it also withdrew yesterday on the amendment committee. It was then stated that neither this package nor all groups were involved. These were mentioned in the afternoon s.p.i. and personal supplementary work. You know this is the afternoon s.p. or p.p., which is opened with the purpose of only being carried out as an addition to some, some regular employment, so that someone can improve their financial situation or because he wants to do something in the afternoon that he may not be able to do during regular working hours. And that's not the kind of income that's somebody's priority to survive. Therefore, this measure cannot also cover measures that have touched the previous packages, nor can they cover the afternoon st.p.s, as this afternoon’s p.p.s benefit, if anyone is eligible, from the regular working relationship. [[…]] Personal supplementary work is also not regular income, but it is occasional work. The occasional work must not exceed the profits of EUR 3 000 in half over the year 186. This means three average monthly net wages, which means that this is not a basic income either. These are mostly seasonal work, for example, helping family members. Surely you cannot say that this is the kind of income that would endanger a person’s life. In fact, it was mentioned that in view of the measures taken for families, namely the 500 euro supplement for a newborn child, 500 EUR for one individual child, that this is a measure that is attractive and that, in particular, this supplement of 500 EUR for a newborn baby encourages women to be birth machines. [[…]] I don't understand how anyone in this building can say something like that in Parliament, because we could all be trying to support births, and I'm not saying that this is a measure that will make this woman decide to be born. [[…]] But I'm a mother myself, and it saddens me to hear something like that in here. But I know how good it is for every euro as a young parent because you know that young people have more needs because they are creating a family, and 500 euros is still welcome. However, it is necessary to say what was explained yesterday in the Committee on Finance that these 500 euros are additional to those – for example, in Nova Gorica we also have 500 euros per newborn child, in addition to those funds that the local communities also allocate to newborn children. I would also like to say that, despite the fact that the first aid package, when this measure was introduced, there was a lot of talk about why the pensioners did. [[…]] See, as pensioners are also affected by and have also increased the cost of the epidemic, either because they have to pay someone to go to the store or to take them to a doctor where the municipalities do not have transportation. Although I must say that what I am monitoring in Novi Gorica, including in other municipalities, even in all municipalities around Goriška, is more or less free transport for the elderly being introduced, so yes, this is actually a measure that turned out to be very welcome for pensioners. At the same time, I would like to invite all citizens and citizens for this measure, which has been adopted, to increase income from 0.5% to 1%. It was also thought that the fund would be abolished, but for the time being this remained in the fact that the percentage was only rising, from 0.5% to 1% and would really invite all citizens and citizens to respond. This is your opportunity to devote to that NGO that you think you can and would do the most in your local environment so that you can contribute a little more by giving it a share of the income. And let us speak to those who may not actually know and know about these possibilities. Because it's too bad that this money is going back to the fund and it's being shared again by some keys, which I don't think is a good message. Then I would like to say that not so much is spoken in nursing homes, but it is not spoken, not because we would not be in the priority of the government and care for the elderly, but because we need to know that homes for the elderly were the first to actually suffer from massive Covid-19 infections and in fact more or less after all the homes already that major biggest wave went by. And now it's a common goal for all of us to be vaccinated at home. And this is also a government priority, and I think it is also a priority for all of us to protect those who have not actually managed to protect themselves differently. And vaccination in this package of measures is also financed from the budget. I would also like to say about the pension which was mentioned so many times yesterday as a measure mentioned in the debate, namely, it is not a matter of compulsory retirement. You know what the situation is, I will not say in the economy, because there are more or less agreements between the employee and the employer in the economy and they are coordinated. The bigger problem is in the public sector, mainly because there are a lot of jobs that could be reviewed and decided whether they are even useful or could be carried out in a different way. Therefore, from this point of view, this measure was in order. However, it is not a matter of compulsory retirement, because when an employee reaches the conditions for retirement, it was actually envisaged that he and the employer sit down and discuss with him or her whether his employment is still necessary for the body or for the organisation. In the end, I would just like to thank everyone who has participated in the preparation of this last package of measures and to address it all together, let us give our strength away. For we see how small and powerless we are when the earth shakes only a little, and only when the epidemic that has taken us this year comes. Therefore, thank you to the government and to all of you who have recently made an effort to be citizens and citizens, as well as to the economy, have suffered as little as possible the consequences of the epidemic, and I call for this package of measures to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Procedural Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'd just like to refer to the last sentence of the MP. An hour ago, this hall was very stressed. We have seen where the worst in Petrinja in Croatia even the tragedies of life are happening there. I propose that perhaps we show today, we only talk about the amendments, leave the bile debates alone today. We accept the law as it is, or we reject it, and we prefer to try it over time, perhaps even with some money to help people who are in real trouble, because nothing will help us to have a bile debate about who is right and who is less right, because when this life turns out the way it is for Croats, I think it is very good, so I suggest that we really talk only, although I know that it is possible to talk about everyone, that we shorten this debate and better, that in some other way, we help people only 100 kilometers from us who do not know how they will survive the day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u56	Thank you very much. What you have proposed is also a business provision, I would say nothing special. I propose that this proposal be followed, as well as the rules of procedure, and that we hold a debate on what is the subject of the debate. The next one gets the word Igor Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! As a colleague, at least in the beginning I will discuss more generally, but I will try to be as consistent as possible and to really touch the most crucial things in the law. We are already talking about the seven antikoronic package of the third package in the last two months. The fact is that packages are intertwined, complementary, so many are unclear, in particular incomprehensible to those who are implementing and interpreting them even more clearly to those who need the clear and meaningful measures resulting from the legal provisions most. There is simply no way to get rid of the feeling that the measures are being prepared without a proper analysis and first an analysis of the causes, and then an even more important analysis of the consequences of a given measure. In my view, the way I communicate or communicate the introduction or modification of certain measures is a very important factor. It is not just the transmission of information at all when we communicate this information on Twitter, when you brief people on what they can do or what they need to take into account, but what happens is that government representatives provide different information. As a result, people are simply confused and do not even know exactly what they are allowed to do and what they are not able to do. Communication is a feedback loop where both those who provide information and those who accept it must participate, and if that is not the case, then the question is, for example, whether the transition from one congregation to another is an explanation of the exercise of sports activity entirely in place while we cannot say that for an answer. This is not self-contained and does not come from the information provided. I would only like to touch on the last case, which is related to the closure of skis in this word, recklessness becomes very mild for someone who has decided on such a measure. I'm afraid I can't do this without a little sarcasm. Why? First, there are very strict conditions under which, for example, skis are intended to operate, cable operators do their utmost to meet these conditions and then, without proper arguments, take action to prevent skis from operating because the risk or risk of transmission of infections is too great. So much for taking care of the economy. To avoid misinterpretation, I am of the opinion that there is a need to respect certain or all provisions, especially when our health is at risk. But it is only the way or the time of the new Article on sanctions for infringements has demonstrated the exercise of the power of the ruler over all those who either did not understand or at some point did not take them into account because they did not know them, or perhaps did not take them into account because of some emotional reaction, but now we want to add additional sanctions to these people, entities and in an unacceptable way through a retroactive criminal measure. I said the same thing on the committee yesterday, but I would like to remind you once again that the prohibition of the retroactive application of the rules in our legal system is just in order to ensure that both citizens and economic operators are provided with legal certainty and predictability in order to be able to behave. And if I spoke earlier about the importance of communication and the fact that the key for citizens to respect all the measures prescribed by the Government is a predictable environment, then I can say with full responsibility that if this provision today or if this measure with retaliatory sanctions is adopted today, with retroactivity, the Government will undermine its own legitimacy. More clearly than the fact that rules can sanction legal relations only forward and by no means can I simply say those legal relations that have arisen prior to the adoption of a regulation or legal provision. This is the basis, or minimum, on which our legal order rests, and if this coalition does not understand and recognises this, then it is another great earpiece to all of us, especially to all of our citizens. And if I go any further, you propose to withdraw the right to aid from anti-korona law to anyone who would be fined for violating the government's decree. [[Incomprehensible]] So, the parents and children who ate croissants on the street, you prescribed a penalty first, and now you're going to take away social assistance for example. I only cite this as an illustration of the definition or effect that this will have on you if you introduce it. In modern society, in my opinion, measures are being introduced in a way that we respect people in particular, but not that we respect them, or that we fear them, or that they are introduced by the exercise of supremacy and power, but are respected and respected because of fear. The assessment of the consequences of certain measures to economic operators and to society as a whole must also be verified with the most affected. Mr. Secretary! Yesterday you said you talked to everyone, but look, I don't think there was any real dialogue in this seventh package. The legal and legal service's comment is too much, written on the 50th page. They made it clear that the proposal for a law is unclear and inconsistent, comments and proposals from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry on more than ten sides propose almost 20 additions, which once again points to a lack of willingness and, above all, a lack of consideration for proposals. The liquidity situation in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in service activities, is catastrophic in my view. According to the Employment Office, by the end of November, the number of unemployed persons in the restaurant and tourism had increased to 11 000 300 more. Of these, 7 000 585 represents the catering segment and out of 40,000 employees in the catering segment, most are on hold. While some are looking for alternatives to food supply for survival, this is far from survival, as this is not enough to cover costs, since the cost structure in this case changes significantly in business operations. Therefore, we have also proposed a relatively simple and effective amendment in the Marjan Šarc List to repay 80% of their revenues, compared to their turnover in the same period as they did last year, without conditioning the granting of aid for loss or tax debt, since most of these entities have already been lost for some time. The measures so far taken to mitigate the difficult liquidity situation have, in my view, not been as you say in the Government, because the solutions proposed were too efficient and inadequate. If we just put the projected financial consequences of six packages over our thumb, this would be about EUR 5,8,5.9 billion, plus another 2 billion out of the liquidity scheme and this new 550 million out of the PKP7, you, the minister, and I would like to ask you, at the end of the day, to tell us how much of this money has really been spent up to this day? Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The Minister has asked for the floor, Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, a few more questions have arisen here now, and to which I would like to answer, I will say what is at the beginning of this debate. The first question is who we were communicating with and how we communicated. Yesterday, I said, today, I repeat, to whom, with regard to PKP7 measures, coordination was three days in the framework of the Economic and Social Council. This was 14 days ago, I mean, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, all day long, different groups have coordinated the articles from one area to another. For example, in the areas of health, one group, labour relations, labour legislation, another, finance and credit, third and so on. Trade unions, employers and government operate within the Economic and Social Council. So, from this point of view, I think that this coordination was extremely useful and then there was a meeting of the Economic and Social Council. So that's four days together. Now, I'm talking about the days, at least, I can talk about that, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, I can say, from 10:00 a.m. or 9:00 a.m. to dinner or noon. That wasn't two or three hours. We can talk 8, 6, 8, 10 hours of coordination. Thus, from this perspective, the standards required by such measures are achieved in the CAP7, including democratic standards, and we have also, of course, included certain proposals that were formulated in the Economic and Social Council or within the Economic and Social Council. But no, so, from this point of view, of course, I have to say. This does not mean that if we negotiate that they will be automatic, I will say that all proposals are accepted. This may be what you think here, that the Chamber of Commerce is also part of the Economic and Social Council, the Chamber of Commerce as well, many trade unions. [[…]] So, even when it comes to proposing whether or not to give businesses easy money at 80, 90, 70 percent of their income and tie it to nothing. I'm wondering, are we gonna keep our jobs with this? The company is one legal person; it is one legal entity; on the other hand we have workers; there are others. Will we keep our jobs? I think that by giving the company money to pay the salary, we can keep jobs. However, I believe that there are others, of course, which is why I have already mentioned this issue at the outset, and can also rhetorically say whether these measures are the best. I explained, I'll say if you even want philosophy or a strategy for these measures. We're dealing with jobs. And if we pay the remuneration to the company, of course, we can be closer to retaining a job than if it were to an enterprise, someone who has a lot of traffic in service activities, such as advisory services and few employees. Will we keep our jobs? For example, a company with a lot of traffic, such as transport, has achieved this in the past, for example, through student work. Then how are we gonna watch this? So I agree with this point of view, there's a lot of ideas. We believe that this has achieved the objectives that have been set so that the economy and the population can come out of this crisis with as few negatives as possible, with as little damage as possible to this epidemic in the economic, economic, social and financial spheres in itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant. Here you go. Replica Igor Pecek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u61	Thank you very much again, Mr. Vice President. It's gonna be a very short replica. Maybe we didn't get along, Mr Minister, I was mainly stressing the liquidity situation in service activities. I don't know a service company that has a lot of traffic and few employees. You answered in general, and I only wanted to touch this part. In individual service activities, labour costs also amount to up to 80 %. The margins they work with and in the hospitality sector are not the same everywhere. Far from it. They're a little bit bigger somewhere, but we're talking a few percent. Not just in the inn, in the services at large. And that was my question. And I am absolutely sure that the situation is bad, the liquidity situation is bad. Only the innkeepers, if I take it, are in debt because those who can and have already spent their savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u63	Yes, thank you very much, very briefly. Dear Member Patchek, you have mentioned 80% of the revenue to be given to the company and that you are already proposing this over and over again, or your client, so I replied because this seems to me to be one of these measures, which I will actually say, and you are saying it again, so I said it. As regards catering services, tourism and so on, PKP7 includes specific lending measures for loans to these activities. Special measures, through the funds, will also receive credit through the SID bank. Especially for them. Look at the articles of the law, because in fact, for them, the article of the law says, for small, medium-sized, micro-enterprises special loans. And the other is because if you are talking in general about the liquidity of companies, then also according to Banka Slovenije, the liquidity situation in the field of the economy is good. This does not, of course, mean that it is good for these activities, which I mentioned earlier, but for which we propose special solutions here.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. First of all, to make my move with the SMC amendment to Article 1. Yesterday an amendment to Article 27 was voted on by the committee responsible, which referred to the NGO fund. As a result, the text of Article 1 also needed to be corrected, because this deletion of the fund went out and therefore this law no longer applies to the Law on NGOs and this was obviously overlooked in some who voted in another direction. So I very much appeal to you now to take another look at this and to sort out in essence the nomotechnics of this law, where it is now necessary to correct and cross out the Law on NGOs in Article 1. In line with what we have invested in the SMC today, we are also further correcting Article 1 where we are also referring to the Slovenian Press Agency Act, which is still to be placed in the content of this Article. I'm going in a nice order to really stick to the content of what's on the table right now, the contents of the amendments, as has already been said today. I would like to touch Article 10 first, of course. Article 10 speaks of covering fixed costs due to the epidemic, talking about some criteria and so on. But what's problematic about SMC here, or I'm going to say the issue is that yesterday the amendment was added to the contents, which is also related to the contents of article 89a. Today, we are proposing two amendments; one is to delete Article 89a as a whole and the other, to delete Article 10(1), which also refers to the fact that infringements of the rules of action do not belong to aid under the laws of the CAP. For us, this retroactive intervention into some acquired rights and some conditionality with impunity is, of course, controversial. Not only can we not push everyone into the same basket, even from this point of view, that it is possible, if we are talking about the most infamous case that was in the media, when it really was a case of deliberate opposition, opposition or disregard for government measures, but perhaps even at some point we could agree that it is fair for a company that places itself in some unequal position, but for all those who engage in these activities to be punished in some way. However, we believe in the SMC that, of course, this is not the right approach. Not all go to the same basket, it does not go back and forth like the text now provided for in 89.a and the first paragraph of Article 10 would mean literally making a set of those entities that are not suitable and, of course, penalising them. Of course, we cannot agree with this in the SMC, so we propose that this content be deleted from the law. After that, if I continue to go to Article 18, which speaks of the weakening of the conditions to be met by the responsible health care provider, which, under the current legislation, had to have 3 years of working experience at the primary level and 5 years at the secondary and tertiary level, where it is now proposed to delete this condition. We understand, of course, that the current epidemic also means a great shortage of personnel, a great burden and so on. However, such measures are not sustainable, but we can, of course, agree to place them in this package in connection with the epidemic itself and, of course, then also define them as temporary measures. So now – this particular article turns into a temporary article and goes into 72.a. of this law, as we have, as we have somehow agreed, in the SMC, of course, we have proposed that this article should be deleted, but, given all the information on the ground and the need for personnel, we can agree that such a measure is only temporary in nature related to the epidemic. The same applies to the 19th Article, which speaks of exceptions, on who can carry out a medical activity on his own, and is now proposed as a temporary measure, I say again, this is acceptable to us and is transferred to that section on temporary measures in the new 72.b. SMC also welcomes the content of Article 25 of the Law, which we have on the table, why, because we have warned ourselves all the time since the first package, that there is also a need for audiovisual, literary and music creators to help and that we have proposed precisely this content, which is now finally covered by our joy in this Article 25 and speaks of 25% of the amount of collected copyrighted fees that can be paid to their members as a relief. Then I have already mentioned Article 27, and I am pleased that it has been voted out that, of course, the withdrawal of the NGO fund is being removed from the content of this law and I am moving on to Articles 28 and 29, which has been very difficult to discuss and we have also been in the SMC, I will say what we have been doing in very detail. We have received, as probably all of you, a number of initiatives from the economy, from the Chamber of Commerce, from the Chamber of Commerce and so forth, where they point out the need for some of the measures they would take in the current epidemic. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u66	My colleague, you might want to leave the discussion of the articles then to continue, because we'll get there.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u67	The President [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u68	I'd ask nicely, well, now the initiative was, Han gave an initiative, [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u69	As usual, Article 1 discusses the whole content.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u70	Well, the rules of procedure are clear, but the habits are different.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u71	I do not intend to return my calls, and I will concentrate my debate now on this part, and I will now briefly fly through it all.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u72	Okay, well, just to warn you, the rules of procedure are clear, but habits are habits, no, something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u73	Me, I'm gonna stick like everybody else, I don't know why that would apply to one another, but not to the other. I continue at Articles 28 and 29. As I said, we have received many initiatives from the economy, but of course we also join some of the opinions delivered yesterday on the Committee when we are talking mainly about healthcare and medical personnel. That is why we have made every effort to find a middle way, so what is at stake for us in the SMC is that the measures in Articles 28 and 29 are of a lasting nature, which means that, as we say all the time, what is in the PKP must be linked to the epidemic and must also have a duration limited to the time when the epidemic is, or an appropriate period after the end of the epidemic, to the extent that it makes sense. We found a solution that somehow gives some assurance to a worker who doesn't leave it behind, as we discussed yesterday, somewhere in an uncertain situation, when he doesn't know what he's waiting for, so we're proposing an amendment to Article 28, as follows, to talk about employees who have completed 40 years of work and 65 years of work and not 60 years of age, and 65 years when these two conditions are fulfilled, we're introducing, of course, Spiza's notice to the employer that these conditions are fulfilled and then have the employer and employees two months of time to agree on or the worker will continue to work, and then you have the opportunity to continue working for one year and so on three times. In particular, it is important to stress that we have sought a way to ensure this social security both for the worker and to enable the employer to have some influence on whether the worker will continue or not. That's one aspect. Another aspect of increasing the age from 60 to 65 is the goals that we all wanted to pursue together in the past, but this is an increase in the employment rate among the older population, which we all know from statistics and indicators, which we are also reminded of by the OECD, of course, by the employment rate among the older population on the tail. From this point of view, some social security also ensures to these elderly people that, of course, they have and are allowed to continue working even after these conditions have been met. The amendment is set out in such a way that the employer must inform the worker in writing of the termination of the employment relationship before the termination of the employment relationship and the decision is also proposed that he/she be entitled to his/her retirement, and then, as the employee has been told, the employment relationship does not cease if they agree to continue, which can be extended as I said three times. We believe that this increase in age from 60 years to 65 years is essential, because we are also talking about workers who, however, possess some certain experience that can pass on to younger people, who are also from the point of view of the work process in the company itself or the public institution or wherever you want to be extremely valuable, and from this point of view it seems to us that this solution is more appropriate – I stress once again – but this is a temporary measure, which is now following this text, which we have submitted to the level of unemployment, which is linked to the fact that the measure, its validity, is linked to the year following the year of unemployment at the level of 2019. The reasons, as I said, are related to the covido. Covid has definitely influenced the situation in the labour market and the sustainability of public finances. Data show that in the first 10 months of this year, 36.7% more unemployed have been registered with the Employment Office in the new year than in the same period last year, and up to 10 November, the Institute received applications for partial full-time subsidies for 59 000 827 employees. However, from the beginning of the epidemic until November more than 250,000 people were granted compensation for waiting for work. So the intervention of the labour market reveals that this huge impact, that the crisis also has a huge impact and that, of course, all of this has a significant impact on the increase in the number of unemployed and that, despite all the measures we have put in place so far, unemployment has increased particularly among young people, so we believe that there is still a need to find a medium way, to enable some things to be made possible both one way and the other at the same time, to ensure some security of the situation, especially the foreseeable situation that both workers and employers will be able to rely on, so, of course, once again, I call on you to study this text, which I have now presented briefly, and that you may consider that such a matter would be reasonably supported. Then, if I fly over quickly below, I would refer to paragraph 40, which refers to the allowance for direct work with covid patients or users, which is also an SMC proposal for technical staff, also covering those who are not employed in the institution, i.e. cleaners who work through the cleaning service and in Article 88, also pay group J, where employees of those of the J payroll group that we all know to have very low salaries in one way or another, so that they are entitled to an allowance of 30% of the hourly rate. Then there is Article 50, which relates to the relaxation of the conditions for the exercise of health care, as I mentioned earlier for Articles 18 and 19, which has also now been classified as temporary proposals and Articles 69 and 70, which, of course, also needs to be mentioned. Why? Because it is a matter of classifying the NRP without the Government's consent and therefore it is a matter of releasing the funding for the film projects that we have already discussed on several occasions, we have also adopted conclusions on the competent parliamentary committee. In the SMC, we have explicitly repeatedly requested initiatives with questions that this suspension of funding for film projects needs to be addressed and regulated, and the basis is now being introduced to implement this solution. And then I'm going to go back to article 89, and I've mentioned it for a while. As it is said, it is controversial for us in terms of retroactivity, in terms of inequality from another point of view, that I do not go into detail about how someone will choose which entities are the ones who will be punished by such a punishment to say so, so we also propose to delete. Then, if I get in touch with article 70 now, which is about the Slovenian Press Agency. In the SMC, of course, we are aware that the Slovenian Press Agency has absolutely no connection at this time with the measures we take in the law we have on the table. Absolutely. And I also accept this argument. However, in view of all that is happening with regard to the financing of the STA, given the stopped funding of its activities which we all know and it is evident that the STA has done for this year, we have sought a solution that would be swift, which would actually be effective, and which would actually, without further delay, help the Slovenian Press Agency to provide some social security for its 100 employees, that however, the money it needs to receive in order to carry out the public service under the law must also be received, and that we will somehow resolve this Gordium knot in which it has become entangled. We all know that at the beginning of December, the Committee on Culture called on the Government to fulfil its legal duties and to pay out public service orders and also to direct services under the annual market contract concluded by the Government with the State. We have supported all these conclusions, but of course there is still no solution to this problem. We believe that UKOM is acting in a way that is illegal, thereby causing property damage to the STA and, in fact, jeopardising its existence. And we've warned that many times. The STA is in line with what the Government's Law Service has recently said, and it is necessary to provide funding for the public service, not only for 2020, but also for 2021, for which, according to my information, a contract has not yet been concluded yet. Nevertheless, the Supervisory Board has already adopted a business plan for 2021, which enables the adoption of this business plan to enable the conclusion of a contract for the continuation of the operation and performance of the public service of the STA, but, as it is said, this has not happened. In this amendment, we propose that, of course, the amount of compensation outstanding this year be provided from the state budget within seven days of the entry into force of this Act. Moreover, for 2021 it is also regulated to finance the public service in accordance with the STA Act, whether the contract itself is concluded or not for the purpose of the public service, but is financed in accordance with what the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency confirmed in the business plan for 2021, which was adopted in accordance with all the rules in accordance with the legislation, and in accordance with our proposed amendment, the matter would continue to be financed. So much for a little while. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u74	Thank you very much for this extensive debate on the amendment of the Law on Intervention Measures by 1. and 70.b. We continue the debate. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. As usual, when we take these measures, we also need to talk about the management of the debt. Look, as I have already said, even if it were another government, we should commit ourselves and take some measures to keep the breathing economy alive, so that we can jump, and I agree with this, that we will act and help. However, this must be targeted and temporary. However, I am afraid, given the comments that these measures, and how many of them are already PKPs to the seventh, are actually prepared a little volunteering. See, one such small community, such a two-million - dollar state, cannot afford to change key personnel every month or two months or three or so. It's not working. We've got some experts. We don't have them there anymore. It's already pointing to something. The other thing is, you have some kind of legal job. Why does our legislative service have to comment on 50 pages? So it also points to some speed, some inconsistencies. We are basically destroying our legal system. So I can go back to my mastership. The Fiscal Council recommends that anti-Korona legislation does not adopt measures that undermine the structural situation of public finances. Let's remember, we were years ago when we accepted, all of this 30-year history we still owed. Except for the previous government, there was some debt recovery because we had a surplus of the budget, and otherwise since the beginning of the years we have been indebted, we are now strong over 30 billion. And that's what we're talking about, the long-term sustainability of finance. We had to pay more than 10% of the budget annually. You know what this billion, billion, billion years a year pay, what could all of these billions do? So let's not go too far, let's not go too far. In doing so, the Fiscal Council is particularly at risk because of the demographic picture we have in Slovenia. And here in this PKP7 proposal also contains a measure which my previous speaker has talked about a lot, also setting out the possibilities for a simplified termination of the employment contract for persons who have met the conditions for obtaining the right to an old-age pension. In doing so, the Fiscal Council points out that this is directly contrary to the requirement to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances and also to the current aspirations of prolonging employment. As a result of the extension of life at an unaltered retirement age, we know that our life expectancy in Slovenia has increased by an average of 10 years in those years, right, the gap between contributions and expenditure is increasing. Therefore, the Fiscal Council recommends that the implementation of measures should be accompanied by a broader policy. Therefore, additional policies will allow for the long-term sustainability of public finances. One of the solutions offered by the Fiscal Council and mentioned it is to extend the working activity of the population – extension. This is very hard to hear, but we are, after that, along the length, when we stay at work, at the bottom of the scale, almost, Europe. So that's where he's waiting. That's where he needs to be. [[Incomprehensible]] The fiscal board also notes that there is no calculation of the public financial implications of the measure. They expect this to cost the budget, this measure, if implemented, 35 million euros a year. Since the outbreak of the epidemic, they also point out that measures, through this confrontation, to the health and economic crisis must therefore be targeted and temporary. So, it is necessary to avoid such measures, which undermine the structural situation of the finances, to note what this proposal is in 28th and 29th, to think carefully – let us think carefully, let us not do so. One of the incomprehensible, completely incomprehensible measures is that the Government wants to provide a monthly basic income of €700, to the staff of the RCC for several months. The students, the students on whose shoulders this repayment of these debts will be removed, as some, who fall there, in 2025, as we owe ourselves and have no assets and are left without income, we only provide one single aid amounting to 150 euros. Therefore, to those who will repay these debts, which we now owe, we grant a one-time aid amounting to 150 euros, to those who, in the background, have an interest organisation of the RCC, which is the largest landowner in the country, as the state has also granted it back to the feudal properties that the Habsburg monarchy State has taken away from them and let us not forget something else, the RCC-related organisations are at the very top of those that have dug a 5 billion-dollar hole decades ago. The first four are on this scale – Bell 1, Vegrad, T2 and Bell 2. And again, for these debts, as they were made with others, we have paid more than a billion a year. Just one country like ours shouldn't afford it. At the end of the day, allow me to express my deep disagreement with the Vice-President of the Government's statement that now is the time for borrowing because money is cheap. If we do not invest in matters that will ensure the return of this money, these debts will have to be reprogrammed. Until now, debt and debt have been growing and reprogrammed. But five years from now, ten years from now, fifteen years from now, twenty years from now, let's leave, we can't just decide for ourselves the benefits of working, the interest will be normal again, and let's expect that this fear of the economy won't last for so many years. Then they go up and we'll have to pay off our interest again. And we're going to be paying off a very large billion. Let us be careful and focused in this regard and, in fact, let us see that, if measures are measures, they are only temporary for this economic exclusion and the survival of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The Minister has asked for the floor, Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u77	Thank you very much. [[turn off microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u78	Ah, Minister, please sign in.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u79	Thank you very much again. The honourable Vice-President, given that public finances issues have been raised regarding borrowing, would like to provide some information in this regard. Now, first thing. Our public finances are sustainable. Second, they're robust. Thirdly, the debt is part of the plan. This is about increasing indebtedness, and, of course, we have to pay all the expenditure the state budget has in relation to covering the epidemic and the damage associated with it, and therefore we owe ourselves additionally. However, in a framework that does not reduce the stability of public finances. Also in a framework that ensures a direct planned repayment of all the liabilities that we have with credit and which we have with interest. If, of course, we look at the percentage of public debt in gross social product, then of course we have to say that it is growing. And that was also submitted. All data were submitted in the framework of the budget documents for 2021, for 2022, which was adopted by this honourable assembly a month or two ago. From this perspective, the full stability of public finances is ensured. Even as a percentage, if you look at the percentage of the debt relative to the gross social product, it is planned that this percentage will fall in 2021 and 2022. If we look at the deficit, it will be smaller in 2021 and 2022. And if we look at what debt it will be in 2020, as it is predicted. Not by a tenth of a percent different. So from this point of view, I assure you that these finances are under total control. I agree with you that, of course, there is always a welcome concern for public finances in terms of over-indebtedness. Similarly, concern about some of the expenditure you mentioned, and here we also greatly appreciate the opinion of the fiscal world, which draws attention to risks. We're also aware of them in the government. Once again, everything is under control, stable and robust. Also, the financial system, the banking system, the deposits, are growing, you can read about this by the Bank of Slovenia or the Governor, so there is no problem with this angle. The debt is also such that it allows for the normal repayment of all debts after years. And there won't be an enormous burden in a single year. It is planned and these data are also public and we actually have a strategy on this. However, I agree with you that this debt increased in 2020 according to 2019 for one reason – covid-19, epidemic. If you want some natural disasters, like natural disasters. I am not talking here about the legal meaning of these words, that I will not be misunderstood. A one-time event, a special event. And here we have to help people and we have to help the economy, even at the expense of borrowing, even in this way. This is what all countries do — not just because most countries do it. [[…]] We are working to help people and the economy that we do not have more unemployment and that we will have a reflection, a quick reflection when the conditions for the normal functioning of the economy are what they were before the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Replica, Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. For the record, I am right away – Mr Minister, God forbid you say that's the way it goes. All I did was read it, and I said that it was necessary to take measures, just to be targeted, temporary. But I've read what the fiscal world has read, so we're not far apart here. But I've given two cases that are incomprehensible to me and missed. I would like to stress this that we cannot afford this and that we cannot afford it, where my emphasis was on taking measures that are legally unconstitutional. We're breaking up the system with this. There were two of my highlights, and the others told their own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u82	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, dear Members, welcome. Mr. Minister with a co-worker from behind, you too are very welcome! We have before us the seventh crown of marriage, as we spoke, Mr Minister, at the sixth in order for the seventh to come quickly. And here we can see the following; this seventh law contains some of the solutions that we have proposed in the opposition since April. If you want, he'll tell them later. We've written them down, but okay, it's better to overlook them once than never. Secondly, I often wonder whether this crown of marriage will help us to be more successful, because now we are extremely unsuccessful in controlling the epidemic and mortality, if compared with other countries, is terrifying, although I now hear that it is necessary to change ways of identifying the dead, which is terrible of course. By identifying covid — one way or another, of course, it was established at the beginning. I'm guessing it's not because we wanted to threaten people with numbers, but because you probably thought it was the right thing to do, and by these numbers we might be the worst or among the world's three worst. Can this marriage change anything here? This morning, when I was driving back to Ljubljana, I listened to an interesting discussion on one of the Slovenian radios and speakers who were, very well identified four or five points where we actually have major problems. The first, of course, is uncertainty. Of course, people react better, we work better if things are predictable for us, so if we know what will happen tomorrow today, but if we know what will happen in a month, we will do even better. We don't know that with the current rulers. Something that works in the morning doesn't necessarily apply in the evening. However, it is highly likely that in two days it will almost certainly not apply. Either it's using masks or something. While some of the measures interpreted by the Minister of the Interior, such as the ban on the crossing of the municipal border, are clearly particularly threats to citizens and citizens. But I do note that uncertainty about this particular law cannot really save us. This will not help to make things better. Then the next question; can this specific law save us from the kimows? So epidemiologists have been removed, those who advise “professionally” are some other profiles, but in the end you don't know if it's an epidemiologist who isn't an epidemiologist, whether he's an expert in the fight against drugs or whether he's an advocate. In any case, problems with the kimps, even this law obviously cannot be solved. Can this concrete law solve something that actually makes the implementation of measures in Slovenia worse? So, a bad example set by those who make decisions. Indeed, those who make decisions also make prohibitions, as well as a positive issue, should, of course, adhere to what they themselves prescribe triplely. I was right to think, but time was running out, to prepare an amendment where we would write that those who decide on restrictions and if they find any violation, let's say they're in front of masks, so they don't notice that masks take off their masks, that is, in front of cameras or anything like that, that they actually take a one-year salary back, or some other punishment that the health inspector has to write to her. But time is running out, and that would probably be unconstitutional. But such a measure would work well. The fourth thing this law can solve is to feel a little less threatened. So, threats to those who are not good with those we disagree with or threats because they are simply not nice to each other. That is why it is very right, and I hope that the amendment which makes this threat possible will be removed. It is very right that the SMC Group proposed that, because they are not currently in power, the Slovenian Press Agency, which is an independent non-governmental agency, is penalised. This threat can be if the amendment is adopted today, and my vote is removed. And if we succeed in removing another threat, this law will ultimately have an effect, a positive effect on the control of the epidemic. I am pleased that an additional proposal has been found to improve the treatment of families with special needs. Already in the previous crown of marriage, I must say, the government has already come with some solution, then we mostly, 44:40 even improved it. In this crown of marriage, we go one step further. And I am also happy, or I would be more pleased if the opposition's proposal were accepted, aid of 300 euros a month, but also 100 euros a month is a step in the right direction. That is why we have also supported this proposal on the committee responsible. Today, of course, we will try again with a slightly higher aid, but this is a step in the right direction, which I support. A well-respected coalition would mean a lot to us in the opposition if we supported the amendment to Article 57, paragraph 75, I apologize. This amendment came about in a very simple way. She wrote to us a family with three compulsory children, two students and students, or I think a student and a student. And this family, which is from a remote place, had to pay for transport, the annual transport of 750 euros. So, for a service that can't be used because of the restrictions the government has accepted. It is not only that occasional public transport does not work. Even when it works for this family, it doesn't benefit because they have a 750-euro ticket to go to the school that the government has closed. It is said that we are even champions on how long you have closed Slovenian schools. But I still have to check this data, but I'm sure the school didn't close down a specific family. Well, they bought a service they can't realize. Here, the government is offering one solution: that this family, which is likely to have no money left to spare, must now lend to the public carriers in particular, so that one day it will be reimbursed for a 2021 ticket, I suppose, or 2022. That's wrong. When a State or on behalf of a State makes a limit and prevents the family from benefiting from a service for 750 euros, it is neither fair nor justly human to force this particular family to lend to carriers. It's okay for the state to help the carriers, that's fine, but on its own account. Not at the expense of families who do not have the money to go lending to transport companies. That is why we would be very tired of the Social Democrats, and in the opposition, I believe that even in the coalition, it means that we would support the 75th article, which eliminates this anomaly. There are still several articles that are important to me as Social Democrats, and I also believe the opposition. Please, please, you have the opportunity today to accept any additional amendments from the opposition, the threats that are in there, remove them, we also call them planters, some of us have already been able to remove yesterday and if we are able to take this step in Parliament, but you know that you can even count on the votes of the opposition that would support the law. But only you can make this possible because you have most of the votes, at least I think, still in this House. This is a very small step for humanity, but for Slovenia, which needs unity, believe me, this is an important step. So, I want this law to be properly enforced today, I want it to be taken into account, whether I ask you, as well as the opposition's proposals, that it will not happen, as it happened with the proposals we made in April, that they are only now adopted in December, let us now accept what is necessary, and we will not solve this again perhaps in April next year. Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that we have a debate on the amendment to Articles 1 and 70b. We're going to discuss all the other amendments anyway. My colleague Han has warned that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are being followed and I ask you to take this into account, so that we will not now talk about the whole law, but about concrete solutions. The next one has the word Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good day, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, as usual, I will discuss a little wider in this introductory debate about, I will make a general position, my position on the proposed law, but of course we will also be Members and Members of the left-wing group after we have walked through the amendments, and we will comment on these in particular. Yesterday, on the Committee on Finance, when we discussed the matter of matter, which we also have today on the table, I am in my criticism, and I do not hide the criticism of this proposal, quoting the well-known thinker Cicero, who says, more than the end of the empire, his laws are crazier. And in this direction, my criticism goes to this entire 7th antikoronic package. Instead, we have been used to this in the last 8, 9 months, instead of dealing with the actual epidemic, instead of plotting strategies, how to ensure that the public health system needs to deal with the epidemic, instead of addressing social issues, economic issues, how to actually help people, we see this mode of operation of the government of Janez Janša, which is going in the wrong direction, constantly, with each anti-Korronian package, with each of the following laws proposed, with each of the next measures proposed by just and only in the direction of forging, cooperation with private contracting authorities, by putting its people in the most important positions, now, as read, has been a record number that the number has already passed in 8, 9 months and, of course, in the direction of subordination of then institutions, subordinate institutions that can control what the government is doing. However, we have a cruel reality of dealing with numbers, a record number of deaths per capita, we have overcrowded health institutions, overcrowded homes of the elderly, who are still hotbeds of infection and spread infections, and we have one such general health, economic and social crisis as we have never seen before, and the rapids would be this health, social, economic crisis, even if none of these CAPs were, is as in principle, in principle, the actions of the government of Janez Janš are quite ineffective. I'm going to walk through something the most, the most in-the-star points of this particular, this concrete proposal, which most plasticly illustrates the attitude and inability to address the most crucial issues. One of the things that sticks out of this law and that doesn't fit anywhere, not in solving the epidemic, not in providing or caressing the social consequences of the crisis, is opening trade on Sundays. We were in the National Assembly two months ago, when we amended this law and trade permanently on Sundays, everyone or at least most agree that this is a good measure. That this is particularly good in the light of the fact that we provide sellers and sellers in stores with at least one day that they can use to survive it with their family, that it does not endanger the industry and that even consumers without one day of trade in the week can survive completely normally. The government with its chaotic measures once closed, then opened, and again closed and opened these shops, those shops, hairdressers, trade in construction materials, food trade creates only one chaos. But what we've seen in the last few days is in the holidays around Christmas, but there's one thing. The stores were closed for three days, and we survived. We've come back and everything counts as it should. And therefore there is no reason for us to reintroduce this chaos again into these New Year's holidays, further confusion, to new sellers and sellers, and to expose the work and possibilities of infection to the third. It's kind of funny that we talked about opening a store two days ago, but that's the other thing. Then it's another thing. The government has consistently stressed that it does not forget anyone in its anti-Korona packages. I will show you in the next two, three points which groups of citizens and citizens, residents and residents of Slovenia remain on the list of forgotten ones. For example, workers in exposed professions in health care and nursing homes. Indeed, according to the collective agreement, I have an allowance for work in an exposed job, but are we aware of how many of these people work in an exposed workplace? Are we aware that the nursing homes on one side are crowded with the elderly and on the other side empty in frame? Should the Community of Social Institutions report on a 50 per cent shortage of personnel? So anyone who's in a nursing home actually works for two if they want this home to function normally. And despite warnings that their work is not valued as it should be exposed to one side of the infection because they work at the sources of the spread of infections and on the other hand they are exposed to exhaustion. Despite calls from the government in this direction, they do not move forward to this extent as much as they would like, but we have prepared an amendment to settle this injustice in the opposition, which will allow at least the worst-paid to evaluate their work in a fair manner. With two amendments yesterday, and today we are taking this story forward, we have proposed that these workers, their work, be valued with an additional 85% of their other personal income. The government also forgets about renters. The housing crisis in Slovenia is one of the main ones. Now we've got medical, we've got climate, and the next one's flat. Ten thousand non-profit apartments are missing. Although the government deals with some apparent solutions to the naturality of the policy of caring for families, that they will have more children, that women will be more born, that you will decide more about motherhood and family, but because in fact there is no young family in Slovenia if there is no capital backing of parents, the basic conditions for deciding on the family. And they're forced to fall into the pit of rent, but we know what it's like. One wardrobe in Ljubljana costs a man a month of 500, 600 euros. How one young family can afford this, how anyone with an average or a minimum wage can afford it, is, of course, a puzzle that we are also trying to solve with one amendment or we have tried to solve with one amendment in the left-wing group. Unfortunately, the coalition wasn't thrilled with its votes on this, we wanted to establish a situation where rent for the apartment couldn't exceed 20% of what you earn in one month with your work because it would be fair and would allow an additional or some normal life with at least the remaining 80%, regardless of why this amount is. Well, then there's a group of people here that the government doesn't forget. There are dissidents. Critics of the Government who received their very special place in this law with one special amendment to article 89a. We call this amendment a loving “lex Bloody Man”, but it is significantly wider. It is a measure that deprives critics of the Government, those who decide, for such or other reasons, to express criticism, of the right to, or compensation for, temporary waiting for work or partial reimbursement of, part-time work or monthly basic income. Now, please tell me, the architects of this law or this proposal, how will you explain the matter to someone who, after this proposal of yours, is entitled to a hundred euro supplement for the care of your child with special needs, and you will catch him at a gas station without a mask with 400 euros and his child with a minus 100 euro supplement that he needs because he is a child with special needs. One is the companies you're going to drive, of course, and the other is individuals, and we know that the subtitle here is essentially protestors, are those who hope to say out loud, to come to the market of the Republic, to express their disagreement. And the government does not, of course, forget its best friend, the Roman Catholic Church. The staff of the Roman Catholic Church are here the biggest jackpot winners of this law. On the one hand, because the Government grants them contributions for health and pension insurance, on the other hand, because it enables them to have universal basic income in line with the one they receive from self-employed persons. Now, self-employed people receive basic income because their work has collapsed because the market has collapsed or their area has collapsed and cannot survive. The church doesn't fit there. The church is the richest institution in the country. The church didn't run out of capital back. The church is a billion-dollar institution, excused, exempt from value added tax, profit tax, real estate tax, building land tax. The church is exempt from paying inheritance taxes and gifts, etc. The church is the most solid financial organization in the country at the moment. And she decides not to pay her own people. Yesterday I invited the priests and nuns to unionize and hit the top of your organization because they drag you around "ass-in-the-warts" or whatever you say. The richest organization or contributions to its people is not paying. The budget is as big as the state and now requires the state to pay both contributions and basic income to its people. While self-employed in culture say that this minimum of charity comes from the state, it must prove and prove and prove its standard, its success, its work, its importance on the cultural scene. So, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The more the empire ends, or the end of the empire, the crazier its laws are. And this law, this set of laws with such excesses as this, 89.a., and the awarding of some awards, already full of churches are absurd, are insane. The closer the end of the empire is, the crazier his laws are. We already have crazy marriages, now we're just waiting for the government of Janez Janša to fall.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u86	Thank you very much. A representative of the Magi government has the floor. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Now, given that there are some questions and also some claims about how workers and workers, nurses, health personnel, doctors and so on do not receive additional payments and so on, I think the least I have to do here is to provide information on what the laws already include regarding the additional higher payment of those working in exposed places. These are up to 65% higher. Those who work in so-called red zones get +30% more, that's 30% more. And those who are transferred, for example, from a health care home to a home for older citizens, get another 30%. That is to say, if we have now counted all these percentages, even though they do not add up to the normal numbers or to the sum of the money, then that is 125%. But here it goes on a certain basis so much so that we can't just give it all one base and say so much and so much more. They're going percent. So from this point of view, look, they're paid extra. Those who work in exposed places. You can look at this for yourself. Of course, each person has the option of assessing whether that is enough or not enough or whether it should be more or less, whatever the case, the superiors of course decide. But the fact that these people are not being paid is simply not true. And here, unfortunately, I have to say that these are untruths. That's very kind of you. And on the basis of that, of course, it is a certain deceiving. Thus, from this point of view, the government has been giving special attention to those who work in the most critical and exposed places since the first anti-Korona action. The second thing I would like to say is that you probably didn't listen to me, and even if you did, I will repeat briefly once again the philosophy or strategy of these measures. We give direct money or the government gives direct money out of the budget, of course, on the basis of the law adopted by this high assembly. And on this basis people get money for various purposes, pensioners, at the birth of a child, for large families, students and so on. And we don't tell them, you have to spend money on that and that and that. That's what your needs are. The only measure moving away from this was the measure concerning so-called tourist vouchers when they received vouchers to be used for tourist purposes or for overnight stays and so on. Because we believe that people themselves will have needs and will decide what needs the most vulnerable will be, who are in the most difficult social situation, what this money will be devoted to. That's their decision. Some people do this differently and say, look, we give for the birth of a child so much and so much money or here you have a voucher and you have to go get a wheelchair for the child. That would be the opposite of telling him what he needs to buy and so on. Or where he has to spend this and this money. We don't do that. You could also say, look, you and these products are lower taxed on value added taxes for helping someone. Some countries do that, too. As a result, however, you will receive shoes at the same price as 20 percent tax or 10 percent tax because the price of these shoes does not depend on the tax, but mainly on how the trader manages his sales policy. First of all, I said, I didn't just say it. Now, in terms of, I mean, I'm talking here, of course, about when you say that we don't give money for special purposes, like rent and so on. We give people to know where and how to spend this money. With regard to the article you're talking about, you mentioned the criticism of the government and also actually mentioned the Krvavec [[?]] . This is where I think it's not a criticism of the government. It's just a violation of a regulation, and based on that violation, of course, there may be very negative consequences, but I'm not going to talk about it. First, of course, it is necessary to know when you mention various cases that in Slovenia and in accordance with the legal and constitutional order, the principle of proportionality applies. In fact, the principle of proportionality means that, in the light of the act in question, this act is also punishable proportionally. So, of course, you can't punish someone, extreme punishment, punish someone who commits a minor offense. If you want to, you also have in the Offences Act, I think that's what you're talking about in the 50th and 51st sections of the law, when we're also talking about the so-called Institute of Reminders and Reminders. So, of course, here's the thing, kind of, exaggeration. It's a kind word of exaggeration. I will now talk about Article 89a and Article 10 on retroactivity in Article 10. Here is defined the so-called improper retroactivity. The deadline for applying for fixed costs, for example, has not yet expired, which means that no real retroactivity has occurred, nor has there been any payment of these measures listed in the PKP laws. The Supreme Court also issued a judgment on this. As an example, I refer to it in Case 194/2013, it is said that it was issued in 2013 and that there was a strong position that retroactivity was at the time of intervention in claims already made or payments already made, and if this does not happen and there are many cases of such measures, then it is not really a matter of retroactivity and the Supreme Court has decided that such retroactivity is permitted. With regard to retroactivity as provided for in Article 89a and established in accordance with Article 155 of the Constitution when it is established by law and does not prejudice the rights acquired. You can read this in Article 155 of the Constitution, paragraph 2. And, it shall be permitted if it concerns individual provisions of the law, if necessary, it shall also be defined in the Constitution, for public benefit, and if it does not interfere with the rights and obligations acquired by individuals. From this point of view, I assess that this article fulfils the criterion that it is an individual provision of the law, that it is a public benefit, because measures to mitigate the consequences of the Covid-19 epidemic are not justified by those who do not respect the provisions aimed at preventing the spread of the epidemic and here you have a simple causal link. I am not speaking here, this question has also arisen several times yesterday, which is why I am now making this assessment in this article, namely, thirdly, a provision which interferes with the obligations of individuals, but here is the retroactivity which is allowed for measures that are in force and for which individuals have not yet received payment under these measures. So from this point of view, I trust the Constitutional Court if it comes to that decision. Here I give only an assessment or just an opinion on this and, of course, on your statements, who and how he will now be potentially punished for violating certain rules. It's not that simple. Very generally, some of you show it, which is my personal opinion. And that's not what this is about. And it is also the fact that some of the provisions that are also examined here are also from this point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The replica's got Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Very briefly. First, when we talk about employees in nursing homes and health organizations. We know they've been given supplements. But here is a bunch of other groups of employees who are also exposed to infections and exhaustion. Yesterday, we already addressed this group with one amendment, pay-per-view J, which are truly underpaid, under minimum wage, and I do not know if they receive at least 85% of the supplement. But they're also exposed to, say, infection and exhaustion. Second thing, rent, you're talking about not being able to tell people how to spend the money they get. That's right. But our rent amendment does not aim at ordering the government to do so. It does, however, propose the establishment of a maximum, a ceiling that we have placed on 20% of the monthly income that gives a person, in addition to being a tenant, a normal life away from it. And 89.a, who's potentially gonna be here on the wallpaper. We've been looking at the wallpaper for eight and nine months. We saw, I don't know, for a couple of days, the protesters who were walking around Ljubljana with the umbrella on the wallpaper were ingrained. And they respected all the measures. But we know this Hoys's mode of operation, which aims and targets and targets only the opponents. You're talking about the principle of proportionality. The main disproportionateity here is that man is punished twice for one thing, which is not even justified. First, by being ingrained, and then by not exercising the right to exercise the right of aid for the survival of this crisis. You have no argument, Minister, sory.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u91	Just an explanation. Whether I have arguments or not, now you are so, so sorry, honourable Member, I allow myself to judge whether I have arguments or not. Someone tells someone in advance, and you have no argument, it's hard to believe. From this point of view, I mean, in this way of communicating, I apologize to the honourable Member, I'm not used to it. Although you can talk about some different communication, autocratic, but telling someone you have no argument, now or reading his thoughts, you have that ability or you just say that. So from that point of view, let's just leave it. [[…]] I understand that sometimes she gets a little carried away. People you say are not involved, such as those working under public works programmes. PKP-7, 87. Article 88 below, including students and students, are included in this article. From the look of it. What, of course, you can now on the basis of some information on this, I still say that in this country also as regards penalties that are prescribed, which you probably think from this, look, you probably know more, I'm just saying, my argument is that there is and is an established institute of proportionality, and here in this legal order the Institute of Proportionality works, which I have already said, and this is my argument on what you are just saying about some of the events that are, you may have seen in some media that I do not know about or are not. Thank you very much. The Institute of Proportionality, once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u93	Yes, I must say, if I'm happy, I'm glad the Minister of Finance has spoken. But I don't know if he'll say anything after my discussion. That's the second discussion. I like it every time he gets a little pressure, because otherwise I think he's only 20, but not because he wants bad health, away from it. But, above all, and only in order to have a dialogue and that's why – but now I'm going to argue what he's done with my colleague before – it's not a problem if you have arguments. I'm not gonna tell you you don't have them, but they're not worth anything because they don't. That's the problem. You know, to have empty arguments, that's -- and to be convinced of them, to be sure that they are the right ones and the only ones who can convince, that's fine, fine. I always like it when I have confident people, but I'd like it even better if there was a profit on the other side that would convince people. For now, it appears you don't convince them. In the first place, not the Members. That is why, in fact, democracy – we all know, democracy is not the most saveable system. But he's still better, of course, or I'm going to say the best of the worst systems right now. In particular, because there is one guardian that even those with blank arguments have a majority after this custom, with which they eventually control, so that an empty argument can apply. And this is no excuse to think that this is a confirmation that you will have good and true arguments. Let's get to the content. The introduction of this law, however, speaks of some very fine assumptions, which, of course, at the very beginning, destroys all that the proponents wanted to do with this law. The principles they talk about are seven. I must say that in almost every principle, I find in essence a violation of myself of what the applicant is saying. The principle of adapting law to social conditions, the principle of the social state, the principle of legality, the principle of efficiency, the principle of cost-effectiveness of the procedure, the principle of solidarity and the principle of transparency. Then you begin to read on all these pages the terrible march of all that you are tearing down, what you are predicting at the beginning. Yesterday we had a debate and a few discussions were under way on individual proposals. Above all, it is a problem and I will repeat it again, the problem is the form of this law. I have repeated many times, but I must say that in all these years I have not received any feedback, that my opposing associates have understood or understood this. The mother of democracy is first form. It doesn't matter, but you have some content if you don't respect the form. And I'm saying that the marriage you filed is basically illegal. The second is, of course, when it becomes a practice. The President of the Government boasted that he had adopted eight, nine months more laws than the previous coalition. It was so short that he didn't say the previous term. Because of the change in one or two articles in each package, it is considered to be a change in the law after a quick procedure and after counting all the laws — yes — the number of laws is higher. But is there a way, form the right way? Well, that's another thing. And that is why, of course, this law will have terrible consequences, not by content, but by the way and practice of this rule of law. I'm sure of that. Because of this, you know, this is about like that river — because you know it; when you repeat it repeatedly, it becomes the truth. And that's what happens to us all the time when someone repeats lies and is confident enough of himself to believe that in the end. If not the other one, at least him. Today we have heard from the debate about how good it would be if we worked hand in hand and at least in some things, where, in fact, the whole country and all people beat us essentially with the COVID-19 virus, so that it would be cool if we could just unscramble these ideological prefixes and try to talk and agree on at least what would really have a direct effect on people. Everyone here accompanying this meeting is also monitoring what is happening in the media, what they are reporting and so on. And it's no big deal. It's a brand-new, fresh thing. I said nothing, yes, and the address is like that - nothing, tops of the rule of law. In addition to the proposed SMC, the Prime Minister responded to the proposal of the 7th Anti-Korona Act to ensure the financing of the STA and, among other things, accompanied the event by the words “nothing, the supremacy of the rule of law” and added the closure of Zimbabwe. And of course again some winged woman who I won't even repeat because she's a pure fat lie because she understands her and only he sees her and all those who believe him of course. But what is the meaning of the message? How do we want to believe and cooperate with this coalition or with individual political parties and Members, but if their Chief of Staff says that we are one from Zimbabwe who is actually working against and violating the rules and laws and what else do I know? And then I'm listening to a colleague from SDS during the debate who says, well, this one was really cute, I have to say to the anals that there was a 27 in the law. The 12th, and that there was a delay, is the opposition's fault. I don't know. Did we write you a law? Have we set a timetable for you when you will convene the meeting? Did we tell you how to run the whole process? If we were you, I'm sure it wouldn't be such a package and it certainly wouldn't be in there, I assure you it wouldn't be. At least not what the colleague said. Now the fiscal world has said a number of things. The fiscal world said the following thing. That if you continue to make compulsory retirement as proposed in the law, you will have a very strong impact on fiscal policy. And not what you, of course, say as an argument, as the Minister of Finance says, and of course those who have proposed this solution within the government, but this is when he says that it is essentially some kind of solidarity, because young people will come to work. Please. Who believes that? So, if we don't, let the Fiscal world believe, at least to the Fiscal world. By the way, the fiscal world has been created, and that is the case, in such a form and in such a way also written down in the law, we must thank the right hand side. At least let him respect you if you've already led him to the fact that he exists and works today. I'm not talking about what a lot of people are asking you to do, you're gonna have to follow the fiscal rule. I'd understand that, and I'd say that when there's a crisis when there's a war, when there's a war, you just can't work in those normal frameworks. I'd buy that. But I can't buy that you send healthy, active, capable people to retirement. You're charging the budget because there's going to be more money, because you know, and what's the worst part, you're telling us that that's why there's going to be more young employees, because you know there's not going to be anything. Because as long as there is a crisis, there will be no very large employment and what I know is what else, because other laws will prevent this desire or this kind of policy. Now it's a penal policy. The Minister of Finance says, so well said, proportionality should be taken into account. And then the scheming story, the decision of the Supreme Court, which was purely in one other case and had nothing to do with a specific case, such as we have in law today. And to think that would be an argument. At the same time, of course, let go of the fact that, yesterday, on the committee, not me, not the Members, we listened to the Legal and Legal Service, which was very clear to you. It is impossible to expect people to be punished for what he did at the time, which has not been banned at all. He didn't know what would happen to him if he did. In short, we are adapting the rules for something and we want to punish a person for something that, in fact, was then, or a legal person, because, nevertheless, she did not know that this would be the final result and action of the government, because, of course, he committed the offence. I'll point that out, a misdemeanor. And he got no punishment for the crime. And we're treating him. And that, Mr Finance Minister, is not the proportionality of the measure. And you're talking about all the arguments you want here. There's no proportionality here. But I'll give you a very nice Slovenian word. It's disproportionate. And that's why this can't happen. This retroactivity, you know, is the devil. We would always like to refer to retroactivity as non-retroactivity, and we all know that it is not there and that we should not have it, but we would like to have it on a case-by-case basis. And then we call on you to let proportionality settle the matter. And then we say that it is necessary to adapt to different situations and that you also need to look at the effects and consequences of what an offence does. It's really a hair thing. I told you yesterday a case you don't want to understand, but it's very similar. And don't tell me he's not comparable. I'm driving an electric car, I want to have and I'm counting on a subsidy prescribed by the state to reduce emissions because the electric car doesn't have any. But I'm going to commit a traffic violation. And since I've committed a traffic violation, of course I won't, I won't be able to get a subsidy on an electric vehicle. Very simple, in your own words, you would now introduce this in the case of what happened on the cableways. You know, the saddest part is not that you want to introduce this. It's sad, because we see where we came from, so that one person can achieve that whole machine moves and stamps like antlers creaking for the same thing. Just to suit him. Because a man on TV said that such a man should be punished and that he should no longer receive subsidies. And now let's ride, no, and that's when we said, John Janša writes something in the morning and his army looks at what he wrote on Twitter, and let's make it happen so that the emperor will be happy and happy. All right, work inside the party. Change your status, I've got nothing, but I'll keep my eyes closed, and I won't complain. As long as it's like this. But when you start butchering it and porking it by law, which we accept in the National Assembly, no, and then we will not be silent. And that's when we have to call about people. Because it's illegal, unfair, immoral and unfair. Because when you sit in the opposition, you will soon be sitting in the opposition, Mr Minister, former Minister of Finance, will speak out loud what he has already been able to say. We're fighting for power, and it's ours to bring you down. Well, that's not how we do it. Let's do something a little different. We call you the mirror. Finally, let me say what disappoints me, and now I see again today, the matter is clear. On January 4th, the kids, the first triad, were supposed to go to school. Well, today we found out it wouldn't be like that. And most likely, if the Constitutional Court did not decide that children with special needs would go to school, they would stay out. But it is possible for every matter in this country that the Constitutional Court is cutting down to prevent you from destroying generations. I understand and I believe that you want to protect your children and your employees, let's say, not to protect them by telling them you won't be hanging out at school anymore. But on the other hand, these kids are going to go back, so that you can do the trick to save your story in the story of the epidemic, because within five years he won't be able to achieve some certain results, and he won't have a certain development in his life, and he'll be deprived of the one life he has at his disposal, and when he can make a decision about himself if he can even make a decision about himself if he ever gets to that level. I'm talking about all the kids with motor problems, I'm talking about all the kids who have, I'm going to say, different problems, I know groups of people who simply, if they don't have contact with the education process, which is also a rehabilitation process for them, and also an integration moment for them to be able to join the system, can be delayed. One month, two months does them damage for two years and more. And that's what I miss about this marriage. Why we are talking about these laws, the measures, but I said in the beginning, because of the measures that this government is taking and leaving unknown consequences. I'd like to say, at least that moment where the fight is ideological, I'll say, the beliefs, where is the argument of conviction in order to protect the entire generation. Well, that's what you're missing. I'm not going to speculate, and I'm not going to guess, and I'm not going to tell you that you're doing this on purpose. I'll leave it to you, but it's true or not. But I only know one thing: longer than you're in power, there's more damage in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The word has Minister Andrej Shercelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u95	Yes, thank you very much. Now, given that honourable Member Möderndorfer has also raised some questions at the outset, which are of a more personal nature, I will answer very briefly. First on the arguments that they are worthless and that no one is convinced and so on, see, this is not a matter of persuasion, I leave it to everyone to have an opinion on anything and to respect it. And far from wanting to persuade anyone in any way, especially verbally violently or in any other way. As far as counter-arguments are concerned, I respect them if they're not flossules. I don't have the words on my flyers. And the anti-args aren't flossules. With regard to my statement at the hearing, most of you publish the first third statement. We can go watch a magnetogram, I'll repeat it after memory. That the opposition fights for power, the coalition wants to retain power and there are issues that are important for the country and on these issues must unite the coalition and the opposition. That's the whole sentence. All of you, quite a lot of you, on twitters, on facebooks, only point out the first third of the sentence everywhere. It's all right, you point it out. But it's fair to point out the whole sentence. This shows more than those who, about those who emphasize only the first third. Now, I have already said today about the content itself that I respect and respect the opinion of the Fiscal Council. We take into account the fact that we will ensure that public finances are stable and are stable, that we have ensured this through the budget of 2021 and 2022 adopted by this National Assembly and where we are forecasting a reduction in the deficit in 2020, in 2021 we are also forecasting a reduction in the deficit in 2022 compared to 2021 in terms of debt in relation to gross social product in the coming years. This was accepted by this honourable assembly and by the budgets for 2021 and 2022. It is difficult to compare, in fact, I do not think that any country in Europe today is being compared to the situation in 2019. There was no epidemic back then. And that fact, which is cruel to some companies, for some people, is such that it hurts them very much, we try to help them, but the comparison for that year is actually substantively impossible. In addition to form, content is also important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister! For 2020, 2021, 2022, during the epidemic, we cannot talk about a stable budget on stable public finances. That's a fact, the whole world knows. Here is a big difference in relation to 2019, when all the public finances were completely covering the expenditure and there is even something left to return credits from the past, which we both know is impossible today and the matter is pretty serious, not because I want to get it out of this, but I think we both know that it is. And today to talk about stable public finances, it's practically almost over if I say so in peace. See, in the LMŠ we certainly believe that the Government, both in the past and in the proposal itself PKP 7, is paying little attention to the economy in order to preserve jobs where the basis for creating productivity is added value of gross social product, without which, of course, we cannot achieve the average of development of the European Union, which is our key objective in all years. See, this is pointed out by the comparison of measures with other countries of the European Union. I always rely on the fact that then you logically see what one does, what the other, of course, does not give the economy an essential part of the content of the law, but these measures work significantly better, and the economy of these measures also takes very positive measures, at least significantly more than we do. That's what you say. There's something about it. With us, we are all too busy sharing one-stop-shop assistance to groups at the time of the epidemic itself. In all the PKP laws, we are looking for these groups that have been abandoned and we have not yet saved them, too much time, we are devoting energy to this. Why? I'll try to explain or what the fact is. Simply because the government did not approach resolution with universal basic income. I'm probably already a nuisance about this because I've been saying this since PKP 1 all along, but given that you somehow answered yesterday that only in PKP 6 we've warned about this, it's very clear that we're from PKP 1, and it's still very difficult for me that you didn't approach it that way. Of course LMŠ then, as I said before, very clearly warned from the first package on, but you did not want to hear. Now we have what we have. Regrettably, we are still looking for those whom we have left behind, those who belong to them, and those who the Government believes do not belong to them or even punish them, as we see in certain cases, even today we have such amendments on the table. See, the President of the Government, Janez Janša, at the November meeting of the National Assembly, to the open question of one of the Members or his warning that everything was still not taken care of at the time of the epidemic, he reiterated his call for at least one group not covered by the assistance. I think we remember this very well, because it was also played in public. Honourable Members and Members of the Government, the distinguished President of the Government himself, if I may call him out of this city as well – at all times of the epidemic, at all times of the adoption of packages, we warn you, this is said to be the flesh of babies, because, as some have already told me, alone and the entire Group of Members of the List of Marjan Sarca, cautions that it is not taken care of, for citizens and citizens as a whole, especially those who are registered at the Employment Institute and do not receive any assistance or compensation, as they call it at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment. See, these citizens and citizens, according to data from the Slovenian Employment Institute, have obtained fresh data or have been giving it to me since March because I requested it - 31. 3. was this 20,000 524. Look, I repeat, because yesterday they were the answers, "like" so they could get it. It's already been eliminated. After the money, this refund, they get it. [[?]] Twenty thousand, after the DSP, they get 35 thousand and, even after the PIC, 6 thousand 800. 23 thousand 277 do not receive anything, but unfortunately they do not belong under these criteria, and we remind them of this. That's what they say, 31. 3. There were 20 thousand 524 of them, of which 3 thousand 334 were the first job seekers. In the last month, there were 23 thousand 277, of which 4 thousand 490 were the first job seekers. So, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Government says that in the PKP7 package, with a temporary cash refund, of course referred to in Article 96, it will finally rescue those who lost their jobs during the epidemic from 18 October onwards, but provided that this person was already employed. This is important now. Finally, Minister, right, from the first PKP, well, in April, right, and to this day, to the seventh, these people have been waiting for you to finally include them. Now that's the point. So the government is also this time, because you said earlier, I mean, this article says that the condition that they were already employed and what they were doing for the first job-seekers is that these young people, who are the first job-seekers, are registered at the institution after school for the first time. We took care of young people at the time of schooling, the study, when their status ceased and they applied to the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for employment, as job seekers, during this time of epidemic and before, did not, when it was even harder to get a job, we forgot about them. There's only 4,000 390 of them. As with this bill, we have forgotten all those who are in the institution who have not received any compensation, and these are still, when the law has not yet been passed, 23 thousand 277. This is the number of one major Slovenian cities. And, dear colleagues, from coalition parties, despite our presentation of this problem yesterday, you are our amendment to devote at least 150 euros of aid to this group a month, to a smooth rejection and still insist that you help everyone that no one is released. This is what we hear in the debates all the time, even from the President of the Government, and we show you more that this does not hold that data is such, that you are convincing us the opposite. Moreover, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance himself, Mr Robert Polnar, has fully marked my debate as a nuisance. Look, although I am aware that Mr. Polnar somehow dislikes reading statements in our debates, that we then quote others, this time there is no peace that I will quote him, given his statement made yesterday in this National Assembly as chairman of the committee, I quote: "Messengers, Members of Parliament! It is customary for me to thank each Member and Member, after the end of the discussion, for his contribution. Unfortunately, I cannot do this now because it was not a debate, but it was more or less a ghastly reading of foreign intestines." End of quote. Foreign poisons in the quote, where I have worked hard, have asked the question directly as we have in the LMŠ and are asked by entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, citizens and citizens who do not receive help. And this is for the president of the Finance Committee to be able to pick up foreign intestines. I'm sorry, I had to say this again today because it's very insulting for all the people I asked the government here yesterday. Thus, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance has highlighted your many questions that you have been waiting for months not to answer. This reflects this government, this coalition, the democratic adoption of measures, and I don't know what kind of nice words we can say here today. I also ask you, dear Government, Minister, why have you excluded them from article 96 of the PKP-7 bill if you wanted to help some in this group? Why did you deliberately eliminate the first job seekers, provided they didn't come along? Dear Minister, have you notified Prime Minister Janez Janša how many people have been left without any help since the first epidemic? He asked after that, and it is right to finally overlook that it is still not taken care of at a time when there are no jobs at the time of the complete lockdown. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of all the intervention measures so far, more than 230 000 people have been registered at the Slovenian Employment waiting facility from March to today. Data from the Employment Service have also been verified three times. And also yesterday, I renegotiated it with the secretary of state, that's to say that there won't be a dilemma again, because you have a habit of not hearing well, you misunderstand, and then you answer something else. Of course, some of these times in both the first and the second waves. Will all of these return to their jobs at the end of the epidemic depend, of course, on the effectiveness of the measures taken by this government in all these packages today on the seventh? We would like this to be so that we can return, so it is important whether the measures are right in order for companies to survive the crisis and be able to continue their activities. That is why we have so many of these debates, and this is the key, of course, to which we are also fighting as coalition and opposition Members. I would also like to mention this, the profession predicts that, after the end of state aid, rising unemployment will be at the end of the crisis, and it will still be difficult to find workers. That's what we said before, at present there are 84 thousand 139, 230 thousand are the potential ones where we don't know how this crisis will end when it comes after us. See, mentions professions, 10 most wanted professions, these are production workers, builders, sellers, welders, truck drivers, soldiers, health and social care professions, warehouses, buyers, sellers, electrical installations, cleaners, servers, household assistants. Look, these are the lowest paid jobs, given the conditions of work they do, respected colleagues and colleagues. That's crucial now. Therefore, the growth of the minimum wage is also an important category that we have adopted in the government of Marjana Sarca, which will encourage young and unemployed people to decide on education in these professions and in these professions that they will apply for these jobs where the deficit is and which the profession draws attention to. This responsibility lies with our respected colleagues, including us, what and how we decide in this house, in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Replica? Have you discussed this before? Yeah, that's what we're gonna do now, yeah. I'll do it again. Since we're done with the list, I'm asking if there's anyone else who wants to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. Thirteen panellists have been reported. The first one gets the word "Jura Ferrjan." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u99	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State and, of course, all those who accompany us are very welcome. We have before us the 7th antikron package at the end of this year, we can say a dynamic and also a resilient literally, the year most undoubtedly marked by the Coronavirus epidemic. And also the anti-korona package number seven has been referring to this situation in the world and, of course, also in Slovenia for the week. 550 million euros is a difficult package and brings assistance to the socially weak, health, tourism, the economy, social and health workers, in short, to the various groups that are most in need of assistance in these difficult times. This will help pensioners, families, students, employees, including firefighters. Allow me to walk through the law in my debate and point out those key elements that will, of course, also help businesses and the economy and the country as a whole. For example, a solidarity allowance for pensioners. One thing, as I know, has already been received this year, and this time, this is how the scale for granting the supplement somehow follows. Up to €510, the pension will receive €300 of the solidarity allowance, from €510 and €612 to €230 and €612 and €714 to €130. As we all know, these supplements and, of course, also a number of other assistance provided by the anti-korona package number 7 could already be paid, as this bill could be dealt with and adopted before Christmas. Unfortunately for the irresponsible conduct of one person - we all know the name and surname of that person - this is not the case. But I am confident that today the National Assembly will accept this package and that those who need it most will receive it as soon as possible. I would also like to point out that, at the proposal of the amendment of the coalition tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, every child in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, will receive by the age of 18, a universal supplement, a single solidarity allowance of EUR 50, which I think is a good and beautiful gesture. In fact, we have also tabled this amendment from the point of view, because we are somehow pursuing a coalition treaty, where one of the commitments is also the implementation of a universal child allowance. And of course this amendment, which was adopted yesterday by the Committee on Finance, is also following, that is, this commitment. I am also pleased that, during the duration of the epidemic, the amount of child care allowance received by the beneficiary in accordance with the law governing parental protection and family benefits is increased by EUR 100. I'm glad it'll help families, of course. Large families with three children and four children or more will receive a single solidarity allowance of €100 and €200. It is also encouraging to increase the supplement or solidarity allowance for newborns, which will amount to EUR 500 after a new one, and all the beneficiaries will be born from 1 January 2020 until one year after the end of the epidemic. Now with the information before that, the supplement received by parents or one of the parents of the newborn was a good EUR 286. So, as we can see, it's a nice increase. And here I'm not even going to judge what amount would be appropriate or whatever, but I'm going to tell you a personal experience. In April 2019, I had a son, and that was when my wife and I received an allowance of €286, and we were both truly happy. Even then, thank God we were both busy, but of course we were extremely happy with this help, which, of course, we also spent on the most urgent matters for the child. The number 7 antikron package has not been forgotten, nor has the students. They will receive a single solidarity allowance of 150 euros. They've already received one this year. Here I would say that not necessarily linked to the population, for example, students, but in general to all measures. But I'm going to illustrate the case of a one-time student allowance. Some 150 euros is not enough. If there were 300 euros, some 300 euros would not be enough and if there were 500 euros, some 500 euros would not be enough. But I am sure that most of the students who will receive 150 euros are happy and grateful for them. Since the regime will be the same as in the first additive, of course those who do not wish or need to do so do not need to be notified. But I think that every student in Slovenia will be grateful for this 150 euro. And everyone who works and earns money, of course, realizes that money does not fall out of the sky and that every euro, which is also allocated through the form of monetary assistance that either an individual or an undertaking or a household receives from the budget and directly from the state, is of course money which is intended for aid and which, in these difficult times of crisis, when we have an epidemic in Slovenia, of course, can be very helpful. An important measure is also regarding the coverage of fixed costs. Here is also a little update of what we have already accepted, namely a thousand euros per month per employee if the company’s sales revenues fell by between 30 and 70 per cent and 2,000 euros per month per employee if the company’s sales revenues fell by more than 70 per cent. I think that this measure will also make an important contribution to the ability of Slovenian companies to maintain jobs and, of course, also the important potential for the time that I believe is ahead of us, that is, for the post-epidemic recovery period, which, of course, will be in the coming months, I believe that already in the first half of 2021, that is, the years before us are extremely important, probably decisive. In the antikorona package number 7 is also quite a few things that are actually directly affecting the virus's crown epidemic. Here I would point out that the country will pay the economy directly from the budget all the rapid tests for covid-19 testing. For example, medical devices are needed in the fight against covid-19 exempt from value added tax. It is very encouraging, as well as some motivation in fact and thanks all those who, despite the epidemic of course and the resulting risk, in view of the situation and epidemiological picture, also receive the so-called 200 euro crisis allowance for those who work and do not exceed or exceed the last monthly salary of Slovenia’s minimum wage. It is also right that this crisis allowance is exempt from both taxes and contributions. If I take this one step further, we also have a supplement here to work in a risky situation. We speak at 65% of the hourly base salary. It will therefore be valid for the period from 19 October this year until the end of the declaration of the epidemic. Students and students working with covid patients will also receive this supplement, the latter being 30% of the hourly rate of their basic payment, which they receive for their work. I would like to mention some other measures that the CAP7 also contains. This is, for example, temporary monetary compensation for the loss of employment of EUR 513 gross per month. Then, for example, a single solidarity allowance for vulnerable rural groups with low incomes. Reimbursement for transport operators, of course, is a very important measure. Then an extension of the loan decision for nine months. It's going to help a lot of companies, too, I believe. In this concluding part, before I go there, I would like to point out in particular that I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also addressed firefighters in the seventh package of anti-korona packages. Whenever we need their help, they always come to our aid and help us and do everything in their power to save not only material goods but, of course, our lives. I am therefore pleased that voluntary fire companies will receive between €2,000 and €4,000, depending on the status of the individual society. Of course, these funds will primarily be intended for the purchase of personal protective equipment, common protective equipment and firefighting vehicles. In this article, which discusses the assistance of firefighters, a paragraph which states that a voluntary firefighter society with a central unit status in the local community will receive an additional thousand euros. And certainly voluntary fire companies will be able to maintain their operations by these means, and this will also be some compensation, because in these holiday times, for example, they cannot sell calendars and, of course, have other activities. In fact, throughout the year 2020, which was really dynamic. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to focus in the final part of my debate on just one step in 2021. I wish you, Members and Members of Parliament, and of course all of us, especially all of us, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that the year coming will be more peaceful, but especially healthy, and that we will enter it with determination, courage and victory. As far as the Coronavirus epidemic is concerned, and of course our personal challenges, which will certainly be many in the year ahead, will be. To conclude, therefore, on the subject of today's debate, the debate, i.e. with the seven anti-korona package and the six remaining packages already adopted in this National Assembly, which together point both to the data on the already adopted and also on the realised packages, as well as of course the concrete figures that I have presented in my debate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia faces the epidemic proactively and that the anti-korona packages help people, help the economy and help the country fully. That is why I believe that the seventh anti-Korona package, like the rest, will achieve its purpose and will primarily help the Slovenian population and the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Baković, prepare the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u101	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues. My lord, my predecessor, Mr Ferrjan, has done his work well. I listened to him very carefully all the time. He was talking about the good stuff this package number 7 brings. Yeah, it's true, there are some good things, and I'm gonna count them myself. Therefore, we welcome the extension of the measures that have been applied in previous packages also in advance. We also welcome the implementation of the principle of proportionate recovery of aid for companies less affected than originally assessed. We also welcome the fact that Covid-19 will not be burdened by VAT. And we also welcome solutions that help passenger carriers and so on. It should also be pointed out that some amendments to the opposition have been adopted on the home labour body, which is, of course, good. And here also goes the thanks to some individual members of the coalition. I therefore welcome the decision to prevent the financing of NGOs from being stopped. I also welcome the amendment to delete the provision on compulsory retirement of people, but I see that the coalition has not yet given up and re tabled an amendment that in some way exposes the so-called forced retirement. You know, at other times, on another team, this decision might still have meaning and would also be justified if, of course, such a provision would not at the same time be an opportunity for the withdrawal of disturbed people, the withdrawal we have witnessed in the past. Look, for example, at this time, how do we find out that there's an extremely high level of human resources malnutrition in the police force? And madness would be the compulsory retirement of those who have fulfilled the conditions for retirement, but still persist in the police. Of course, in marriage you'll probably point out there's one later, I'll say, as a guardian, that the employer has to agree with that. However, I think that such a provision would be useful for some, because it would be easy to get rid of people who are not too big or unnecessary, but who are disturbed for some other reason, for example, by political reasons. Maybe because they have a different belief. Perhaps because they are only critical of the measures taken or introduced by management. Perhaps because they do not agree with the current policy, but on the other hand they have exceptional work experience, knowledge and expertise. Thus, my view is that this provision for the current coalition, and also for the government, would be too much of a temptation and therefore it would be appropriate not to implement or withdraw this provision from the law. Also with regard to Article 89a concerning the sanctioning of those who have infringed government decisions, therefore, they would not receive aid in the event of infringements, say the following. My opinion is that the main problem of this government is that any attempt to play rules or anomalies or some non-discipline will be responded by repression and only by repression. And if someone who has worked in a repressive body for the rest of his life tells you that, in fact, it would be right to imagine it in some way. You know, it's like if your child were to be indisciplined, unruly, rebellious, or earsed. We all know that's not how it works. And we all know how right it is. We know that raising children requires a little more energy and effort than just coercion or repression. And you know, Your Honor, that's the way it is with citizens. Much more energy is needed to explain properly why a course of action is harmful, why it is dangerous, why it is unacceptable, or whether we may find that as parents we are wrong and yielding, or whether we can identify as leaders that we have been in the wrong and give in. You know, just like that, I'm going to say, with kids, you have authority and respect, and that's the way it is with citizens. For we all know the difference between the power of authority and authority and the authority of power, and only such behaviour, in which we invest more energy and the ability to admit our own error, is one that will give birth to long-term success, not just to attribute force to discipline rebels. This is actually the simplest, most "simpl", I will say, but, you know, the least productive. In fact, never productively long-term and it is necessary to be aware and believe, I myself have experience in this area, as is the parent, as well as someone who has worked for many years in public administration, in the so-called repressive body. And it would be wise for you to think about these words and decide on this article accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot, get Lydia Ivanus ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u103	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. From the beginning of the adoption of so-called anti-Korona packages, the Social Democrats note that measures should be comprehensive, long-term, simple, with as little red tape as possible, clear, predictable and fair. That assistance is needed immediately, let us, in principle, help now, red tape later. We have warned you that certain measures need to be taken in terms of long-term duration, i.e. they need to be applied a little longer in the long term, but not only after a month or two months or three months, then each time to re-admit the new packages by which we extend these measures. Every time, of course, we ran into deaf ears again, and in fact, you repeated our previous warnings into the next law, because you saw that the proposed solutions were true, unfortunately you didn't want to hear them. And we have warned you consistently about another aspect, one that you will also hear carefreely every time. It is a fact that a new approach must be taken in the preparation of the measures, because it is simply not all equally and equally affected by the health crisis, which has actually already entered the real economic crisis. In this way, some may still be able to do business smoothly. Some have business problems, but they continue to do so, while others have had to complete their operations overnight and have been stagnant for months. The tourism sector is undoubtedly among those worst hit by the epidemic and will continue there for a number of years. The question of how many entities are actually going to survive, how many companies are going to be encouraged to shut down the business because of the poor measures, how many independent entrepreneurs are going to shut down the activity, how will tourist guides, tourist carriers, hotels, guests, small traders, how will the entire industry survive? Here I would also like to point out the observations of the hospitality and tourism section, where, for example, their president says, I quote: "In fact, it is difficult to describe how much distress and despair the guests express through many calls and e-mails. When you face such stories, day after day, it becomes clear that we are playing with the lives and fates of many with unsatisfactory aid measures." It further states that there are among the biggest victims of the epidemic in the hospitality and tourism industry. In November, the number of unemployed in this sector jumped by as much as 19% compared to the month of October. They further state that they are convinced that, given that the guesthouses have been closed for 4 months this year, they can reasonably expect at least full cost coverage from the country. After such a period of operation, however, it is logical to start covering the loss of income or loss, since the long-term closure of all innkeepers raises the issue of survival. In doing so, the section proposes an even simpler system of reimbursements, which is essentially the same as the amendment proposed by the opposition. Therefore, the Government should start with more systematic measures that address specific sectors that have suffered the most direct damage and, perhaps, ensure that it does not appear that a specific activity is being discriminated against. For example, with the government decree of the inn, you banned the sale of alcohol. After your homework in December, when at least a few guests could repair their income, you made it impossible for them to sell any more cooked wine. Now, what you have achieved with this is not clear to me, for example, because in reality consumers then buy alcohol in neighbouring shops, so “de facto” there is no difference, so you have not prevented unwanted associations, but for example, you have absolutely punished the guests and this in my opinion very unjustifiablely, and in such a way, I am very sorry, you are working. Now, if some measures may have some logic, I really think some others are completely puzzled with logic. The opening of certain activities is allowed for six days, then closed, then opened overnight to hairdressers, but not for example to pedicures who also provide emergency services, medical pedicures that are vital to many diabetics. So again, some partial, partial solutions that have no logic, but that in people are really overwhelmingly untrustworthy and at a time when the essence of bridging the crisis is people's trust. And I feel sorry for her, but politics is losing her every day more and more. The fact is that only measures that only artificially retain employment in specific sectors will not achieve the key objectives of these measures, i.e. the objective of maintaining the economy in life, particularly the service sector. Guests and, in particular, small hotelists will have to close their activities, they will forgive, as they have also announced, because simple economic aid measures, especially for a small economy, are not enough to say how ineffective the measures already imposed can be. The fact is that the liquidity scheme does not work, companies are in real chronic liquidity nourished, there are no quick bridging loans, there is no compensation scheme, and red tape is “par exelons”. The fact is, in my opinion, they should be eligible for some compensation scheme or for assistance following the example of neighbouring countries, i.e. 8% of the traffic they would otherwise have achieved. Since some had to close their activities directly on the basis of a government decision overnight, they were prevented from doing economic activity, making them unable to generate revenue, which is essentially the objective of any economic activity, all of this because of a direct act of the Government and such should in fact be entitled to compensation. After all, it is also under the provisions of the Constitution which speak of compensation for the direct involvement of the public authorities. So I really think it would be time for a different approach. I would say that perhaps it would be time for the Government to listen to both the opposition and the cries of the small economy and perhaps start to resolve the situation of the small economy in the long run, not by measures that sustain an artificial state. Here I am talking mainly about temporary funding measures, i.e. waiting for work, because these measures, once they have stopped, I think it is undeniable that unemployment has jumped abnormally at that point. So this is about some artificial condition, and we should stop it. We should take long-term systemic measures to enable companies to overcome this situation. And such measures, which will actually work, because right now I would really like to ask you a question, Mr Secretary-General. How do you explain that the measure of deferment of the payment of the obligations of borrowers, which is supposed to have been postponed for 12 months in March, was in practice not postponed for 12 months, but only until 31 January, that is to say, the new CAP 6 should have been postponed for another 12 months, and in fact only until January. Therefore, the new CAP 6 is expected to postpone for another twelve months, but it is only until January. Now, as far as I know, the government wanted it for another twelve months. Or there is now a gap between understanding banks, and then in such a case, there is some fraud by banks when they do it in practice. Here we can see that the provisions must be very clear so that no different interpretations can be allowed in practice. And here I would really like to ask for an answer, because if this is as read, as noted in the Portal to the Government, then it is also necessary to take action and adopt different provisions and to make sure that such paradoxes do not occur, because paradoxes in the context of your request for a decree by 11 months in March 2020 are available to you until March 2021 and the PKP on 6 November allow you a decree by January 2021. Absurd. Now, of course, I know that this is not directly related to the content of today's law, but I think it's such a good example that it is orientating what I want to tell you that I am orienting you how important it is in preparing this legislation to be clear, consistent and, above all, to set such provisions that do not allow any abuse in practice. We further believe that we should legislate an appropriate mechanism that will allow small employers to obtain the necessary liquidity quickly and without excessive bureaucratic procedures. We see this as some real approach, i.e. as little red tape as possible, clear provisions that will not allow abuse of the legislator's purpose and purpose as I believe it has happened in deferring the borrower's obligation. It is absolutely important to stress that this legislative proposal brings a number of good solutions. I really welcome help to vulnerable groups, pensioners, workers, to some extent the economy. They are truly good solutions, and this needs to be commended. At the same time, I urge you to really listen and take measures that will work in the long term that will not put out the fire, but will really look at the complete picture. Because, once again, although companies now do not mainly forgive for subsidising jobs, there may already be some emphasis here that forgiveness is only very obvious in certain sectors. If we look at the data from 14. 12 to 28. 12, there is a very high increase in the unemployment rate. These are the data of the Employment Service. And if we compare the data from December 28th this year, there are 86 thousand 471. At the same time last year, the unemployed were registered 75 thousand 292. So unemployment is already growing despite job subsidisation measures and so on. So here we see that it will be necessary to act differently in order to prevent a severe economic disaster that can follow us, that we must ensure some predictability and security for citizens and citizens and the economic environment. And this does not apply only to these antikron packages, but even more so to all these restrictive measures that create chaos, confusion and really anger in people. And I appeal to the government to refer to a fundamental principle, the principle of proportionality, to try to determine some milder measures when taking measures, by which you will achieve the exact same goals in a more proportionate way, but you will not kill people's spirit as it is now, and willfully and arouse extraordinary anger. So let's find another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The text is delivered by a government representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag. Peter Ješovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u105	President, thank you for your word. Dear Member Hot, thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to point out that, compared to Europe, the credits in Slovenia are proportionally the most used. So it's an instrument that the government wanted to use and use in every way. Another time. Your question is, of course, in place and logically, why such a short extension. But the answer lies in the European institutions. EBA, the European Banking Agency has been very reserved until this extension of this measure, and you can imagine why. Because if, say, as originally envisaged in Slovenia, 12 months plus 12 months, 24 months can already be toxic credit. If the bank does not monitor a loan for 24 months, it may already be a toxic loan. Well, the government, and especially the Ministry of Finance, together with Banka Slovenije, has ruled with the PKP6 that this is an instrument worth betting on. And since there was no decision by the EBE at the time, we had to keep the instrument until the end of January, of course, by a regulation that the government could extend it. The EBA has now adopted new guidelines and can therefore be extended until the end of March and, of course, by a nine-month extension, which is, of course, better than nothing. Is it as good as the first time? No, I'm afraid not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Here's the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u107	Thank you. No, it's just that there'd be another supplementary question here then. Now, if I am not mistaken, the law states that the government may extend this period by a decision. If I understood you correctly, this European institution has now allowed this to happen. Will you then follow this, or how are the procedures going? Or rather, I appeal to you to follow this, because you say it is one of the most used measures and it has also proved to be a welcome in practice and has helped many companies to overcome these basic problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u108	I'm afraid that's not a replica. Okay, you're gonna apply again. As a matter of procedure? Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u109	Yes, thank you for your word. Thank you for asking. Once again, honourable Member Hotov, this measure brought some 300 million delays in the spring and summer work. In view of the liquidity situation, when totalling between 800 and 900 million new funds were made available by banks, SIDs and SPSs, it is an extensive asset. So again, why did the government in the PKP-6 go by the end of January and why did it give itself the opportunity to extend this. Because we believed and appreciated that EBA would adopt these guidelines as well. That's why we wanted to keep the instrument alive. Now we can regulate and extend the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Lydia Ivanus has the word to prepare himself for Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u111	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Good-bye, everybody! First of all, I'd like to say the same thing as a few others before me on the side of the coalition. The purpose of this law is to help people in distress, as in all other PKP laws so far. Pandemia covid-19 doesn't choose people. We all know that this unfortunate virus has affected all of Europe and that this is practically a global problem that we have been facing since the 12th century. 3. 2020, when a pandemic was declared by the World Health Organisation. We also know that PKP-1, 2, 3 and 4 was adopted in the first four months, from April to July, due to income losses, certain quarantines, reduced working hours and so on. But we don't know when this epidemic will end, so people need to be helped. For this reason, we have earmarked substantial funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for these measures. Above all, this was assistance to the economy, agriculture, health care, the social weak and so on. The first four measures and also all further measures, including seven, are intended to help people. For all of this it would be to thank the Government of Janez Janša, but because this is the Government of Janez Janša, many lies, deceptions, instigations, and all possible speculation were uttered by the opposition in all possible ways. Only because the government of Janez Janš is successful and the coalition is successful in overcoming the pandemic. You're part of the opposition, instead of helping solve the problem, overthrowing the government and spreading the infection on the protests and encouraging the non- wearing of masks. As the virus continues to spread, an epidemic was re-declared in October, and certain aid measures had to be extended and new ones added. These were PKP-5 and 6 which extended subsidised part-time and triggered subsidies for companies to wait for employees to work. However, the moratorium on credit and one of the new measures partly compensated the fixed costs due to the effects of covida on the companies affected. As the epidemic is still ongoing today, the PKP-7 is helping again in the areas of health, work, economy, infrastructure, social and health care. It helps pensioners, children, families, students, children at birth spend 500 euros more than ever before. You know how much this means to every mom, and since I'm just a mommy, at the time of my baby's birth, 500 euros would come in the right way, so that's all just to say hello. It also provides a temporary financial compensation, a hazard allowance and a special burden for public servants during the epidemic. Extension of the licence to healthcare professionals, reimbursement of costs to transport service providers, such as school, rail, bus, firefighter’s allowance and so on. In short, there's so much and there's been a lot already listed. At that time, I would like to thank the Government of Janez Janša and the Prime Minister for making the most of their efforts, working nights, weeks, holidays and taking care of how much they were able to do, for our citizens and for our citizens. Many say to me, thank God we have this government. What would happen to us and words like that? Compared to the fact that we are constantly listening by the opposition to how incompetent our government is, for after talking to people, with large numbers of people, I can say that people think differently. In the end, I would like to wish you a pleasant and peaceful holiday and a lot of health in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Polnar, prepare Marco Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. This crisis, which is not only a crisis of political institutions, but also a deep economic crisis, reveals the weaknesses of our way of life. It has always been one of the virtues of democracy, that it is a kind of self-correcting political arrangement. This does not mean that we do not do stupid things in democracy, but when comparing totalitarian regimes with totalitarian regimes, democracy is better at correcting this nonsense. Nor does the nature of the political regime determine who will respond better to the crisis. The pandemic is a dramatic crisis and states are beginning to become like each other. The main issues become efficiency, a level of trust in society, experience in previous crises and efficiency of the state apparatus. Individual democracies can use policies that are hard to imagine in order to deal effectively with the crisis. But this flexibility is a sign of the power of democratic order, not a sign of its weakness. As with all other anti-Korona laws, the number seven is also about feeling the right size and establishing a hierarchy of priorities. Most of all, I think this has proved to be the case with the article that talks about funding NGOs. The Fund for the Development of NGOs began operating at the beginning of 2019 organised by the Ministry of Public Administration. Over the course of two business years, it has achieved the following effect: in 2019 4 million and 772 thousand euros, in 2020 and this year, so far 5 million and 298,000 euros. Then came the righteous anger of those sensitive souls, who feel the pain of the afflicted as their own or even stronger. And these people have all forgotten, without exception, that this is just one way of financing and co-financing NGOs, because through direct budget users, ministries, this type of funding and co-financing is allocated a few hundred million euros a year. This year, for example, €5 million and €300,000 is also completely incomparable, for example, with the number 7 in the anti-corinal package explicitly displayed and called a crisis allowance for employees who work and have a salary of up to two minimum wages, which will amount to €60 million. This is seen as something self-inflicted, something that can be denied immediately. It is similar to the solidarity allowance for pensioners, which is worth €67 million. And one more thing I find interesting in this regard is to highlight, also important, the revenue side of the budget, where, due to the non-compliance with the allowances paid during the epidemic, the country will collect more than €38 million less on the income side of the income tax. That's what you say, 38 on one side and 5 on the other. At 5 general panic and noise, at 38, no one even notices. In the debates on the adoption of the anti-Corin package, number 7 has also been extremely exposed to too little consideration in Slovenian policy making decisions on epidemiological measures. In principle, it should be considered that policy is the one that determines what will be done and the profession determines how this will be done. So it is impossible to rule out politics and expertise, why these two together are tedious and cannot function without mutual cooperation. So the problem is participation in decision-making. I want to illustrate this with a very illustrative example. In October 2019, this is said to be a good year from this, the famous American University of Johns Hopkins and the Economist Research Department published a report on the readiness of the world for a global epidemic. Never before has the report on such an important topic come at a more appropriate time. And it's never happened before that there were so many wrong grades in the report. The authors of the report claimed that the following three countries were best prepared for the pandemic: the United States of America, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. In mid-December this year, the United States had just under a thousand deaths per million inhabitants. Great Britain is very similar. In mid-December, however, the Netherlands had slightly less than 600 deaths per million inhabitants. In this same study or in the preparedness report, Japan, for example, ended up in the 21st place. During the same period as I said before, it has 20 dead per million inhabitants. China, for example, ended up in 51st place and has 3 deaths per million inhabitants. For illustration, I also provide information about Vietnam, which ended in 50th place after the outbreak was ready and has a statistical figure of 0.4 per million people dead. People who were best prepared to assess how someone prepared for the pandemic made a series of colossal mistakes. These errors show to what extent an unexpected and difficult to explain debacle experienced by Western countries in the face of a pandemic. Since this failure has become so obvious, several possible explanations have been offered: incompetent authorities, poorly organised state administration, oversized civil liberties, initial underestimation of danger, dependence on the import of personal protection funds. But all of this is nothing that we could call an objective criterion. Taking into account objective criteria relevant to the pandemic, as was done in the report, we also cannot explain the high mortality rates in the United States, Britain or, for example, our neighbour, Italy. This cannot be explained by the number of doctors and nurses per capita, neither by investing in the health system nor by the quality of hospitals, nor by the average level of education of the population, nor by the average income achieved by this population. The dimensions of this failure are most obvious, where Western countries, of course, include Slovenia, are compared with East Asian, most democratic or authoritarian countries, where the results of the fight against the pandemic are much better. How is that possible? Some argue that the fact that Asian countries have already been exposed to epidemics and therefore have practical experience of how to act may be the cause. Some others seek clarification in the supremacy of Asian collectiveism against Western individualism. But there may be another explanation of the deeper reasons for this debacle. The explanation is speculative and we have no empirical evidence for it. We are talking about a factor that no one has ever measured and probably cannot be measured quite accurately. This factor is impatience. When we look at how the Western countries reacted to the pandemic, it is most surprising that they are inconsistent and indecisive in the implementation of safeguards. The measures were put in place everywhere, without exception, with a great deal of resistance. Therefore, the public and governments in the West did not immediately support the sharper measures with the ambition of eliminating and rejecting the virus, as they did in East Asia. The public and governments in the West have not adopted the East Asian approach to the pandemic, precisely because of the culture of intolerance, due to the achievement of the objective of resolving all open matters immediately, at the lowest possible cost, which Covid’s pandemic cannot produce good results. Intolerance can be linked to ideologies and accompanying policies aimed at achieving economic success as soon as possible. This is generally accepted as the most important objective in life. Such a system is driven by ingenuity and speed, but not by endurance and perseverance, and in the pandemic, endurance and perseverance are essential. Somewhere in his journals, the famous Franz Kafka wrote that there are only two faults from which everyone else comes. These two flaws are impatience and laziness. He was a discerning sight and analyst, a precise and intelligently real writer and designer of his discoveries and visions. With such precision, he revealed the peculiarities, the insignificances to the bottom, that they had come to light things that we had never imagined before, which seemed strange, but they were no less real. Since sloth is a product of impatience, as Kafka says, there is only one flaw — it is intolerance. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come, now, at the time of the epidemic, that we begin to take this fault seriously. We must face the truth ruthlessly. The modern world of freedoms and abundance is fragile and fragile. Our world is not just a world of risk in the economy, but it is a world of risk society. The democratic state is the glue of modern society. The call for rationality and unity, which some have interpreted as political tactics, has now become part of the psychology of the masses, who no longer want to live in anxiety and uncertainty. I think there are questions where there is a need to overcome client interests. Such a goal cannot be achieved by relying on ideology, but on experience and knowledge. It cannot be achieved by considering the division of prey, client interest or personal prejudice. Practical logic and common sense require that society be linked to achievable objectives, but not divided by specific interests. By slowing and unstoppable the knowledge that this world is governed by no and no will, just as we cannot manipulate volcanic eruptions or the formation and flow of hurricanes. All we can do in the entire story is confront our own knowledge. But not with the one that we quickly sucked off the website, but with the one that develops in the laboratories and experimental centers, it is transmitted through books and with a serious professional period. When this knowledge is imbued with our compassion for each member of society, it is possible to overcome both viral and economic apocalypses. This simple and clear truth may be the only good that will result from the present evil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. Let's get the mags ready. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u115	Thank you, Chairman. Now, you know, Stanley is such a destination, very beautiful for weddings. And there's a lot of people coming in because it's such a nice zone and people get married there. And after they start from there, they go with these cars and blow everything, I think it's also happening in Slovenia, and then because these kids hear it honking, they go on the road to the side and wait there. And what are these kids waiting for? They're waiting to throw candy out of this car. And they're always waiting in their hands to get something nice. This is the same now that we have the seventh PKP, and in the same way the government is putting us on the table. There are millions of these and other sweets in marriage, which are nothing more than a pure electoral campaign. But that's also good, and that's good for people, and they're grateful for that. And so do we. But I agree with what the Minister said this morning. [[Incomprehensible]] I'm sorry he's not here, but I can see he's Secretary of State and I welcome him. And the minister said one thing that I liked very much. He said give this money you get, which we don't tell you where to spend it for, what to spend it for, but let him spend at least at home, that's what he said. And that is what I think it is wise to purchase certain products, certain articles, because in one way or another 22% of this VAT will return to our registers. That's one of the basics, which is, plus another thing. And that's what I agreed, and I think that's right, that's very, very appropriate. Now that I'm going specifically to those few things that gave me the assignment that I have to say here right now, that's it. Now, in article 45, we presented yesterday an amendment that was practically addressed by bus operators and tried to provide them with something, a longer period of time for receiving this compensation for the loss of income they suffered due to the complete closure of the country. You need to know that they haven't been getting anything since February, they're closed, bus carriers and this. I mean, they get a payoff, but, you know, these people own a bus if I give you one case. I made a proposal to the secretary of state yesterday, but she probably didn't understand what I was going to say. The government's job is to get us out of these motorists. Because these carriers, if these buses, which are mainly on leasing and these leasings, are no longer able to pay back, and you know why, because they have no work permit, they would work, but they should not work, it is said that these leasings will one day not be able to pay any more. And I've made a nice suggestion to the Secretary of State to agree on a way to finance and repay this lease to create a new loan through the SID bank to replace this lease. So you close something, you open it somewhere else. Because leasing is a rental and rent is a rental. He won't wait, he'll either pick up the moving, in which case the machine, the bus, if you don't pay. And here would be a good option for the country to do so. We also said that, but I don't know, probably if this would fall on fertile soil, let's think about when the next PKPs, which will be safe, I'm almost sure. So that's what this is about. I will say one more thing here, which has made me very happy about article 89a, and I welcome the decision of the SMC to understand the Government's intentions and thus to allow the deletion, in my opinion, of this scandalous, harmful, truly inhuman article, which is 89a, and this will be welcomed. I hope, too, that they have proposed the deletion, that we will all be so wise together, that we will also confirm this, because this is indeed the despair of this article. And now I'm gonna get it over with. I'll tell you again who the other secretary of state is here about the finances. And I also asked Secretary of State Zajc yesterday to tell me why the technical stores, electrical materials, plumbing materials, construction materials, iron and so on were closed. You can't understand that. And once again, you are setting the example of a trade in Ljubljana, where there are 100,000 people and crowds. But more than 3,000 such activities are in the countryside and these stores are closed, giving up dozens of people to live and these people will not live, and these people can't use it to tell you honestly, any of the measures. None of the measures. They can't do shorter hours, they can't do it temporarily, I don't know what, I mean all these things, all these different measures that you've given, they can't because everyone has a job right there. [[Incomprehensible]] And you can't do it without one, because these are small stores. So they're getting paid from the reserves the company has, but this reserve will slowly be gone. What's gonna happen here is gonna be a question. And now that you've said so much that there will be no unemployed, I'll tell you that when the "fry" of these things is here, then unemployment will barely begin, because now all those who are still receiving state compensation are but not working. And he's not going to turn into a deal as fast as he's going to be. I've always been an optimist in my life, and I believe in optimism. So I gave you a little bit of thought that you're there on the government, stop with this thing, stop, let me open these stores after January 4th, because we're talking about 30, 40 thousand people who could work and have some of it and live. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mag. Marko Koprivc has the floor and Mr Marijan Pojbič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, all other fellow Members and honourable Members present! Yeah, we're in the middle of a major health crisis in the middle of an epidemic. Today we have seven so-called anti-Korona package, a package that tries to help both the economy and people with measures. It would be unfair to say in full that the measures proposed in this seventh package are neither good nor bad. This is absolutely not true. There are also a number of measures that are urgently needed to help the economy and people in some way. A number of measures have also been proposed by the Social Democrats, together with the democratic opposition, already a month in April and later, and unfortunately we have not been heard by the Government to listen to us. It is, however, the fact that, as ever before in this package, there are also a number of promoters who have nothing to do with the epidemic itself, but who are being tried by the Government of Janez Janša to strengthen their power in the name of solving the epidemic to put them into these anti-Korona measures. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to start by saying a few words in general about the situation in Slovenia. In fact, the data show that the government has fully covered the epidemic in its resolution. The data show that we are world champions, world champions and European champions as to the number of deaths, the number of infected and something else; the time when they are closed, the schools and kindergartens are completely closed. These data show that the Government simply does not know and cannot clearly, is unable to deal with this severe health crisis and, of course, the economic crisis. What's the biggest problem with all this? The biggest problem is that the government cannot communicate in a decent manner with citizens and citizens. He cannot communicate in such a way as to be trusted by citizens and citizens. But trust is, of course, crucial in such crisis situations. It is more obvious that the birds are already chirping that the government is exploiting this severe health crisis, which has not only affected Slovenia, but the whole world to strengthen or strengthen its power and subjugation of all social sub-systems, at least the media, the economy, the so-called state economy, where the government has the power, the power to kill, the destruction of all the critical spirit, especially the culture, each authoritarian authority first goes to culture, because there is that critical thought and critical spirit, which can only threaten the saving truth that the great leader and, of course, the media are defending. To take over absolute power, it is necessary to have the media under control. Well, I don't want to talk too much about it, because we've talked about this a lot, but it's sad, it's very sad and tragic, and especially the data we've been monitoring from day to day, the number of deaths. For one bus dead every day, it shows that obviously this government in these severe health crises is not a disaster, and that something needs to be done as soon as possible. To touch this seventh package, as I said, certain things that are in it are good, such as assistance to motorists, relief from quarantine and anything else that might happen. However, there are also things that absolutely do not belong to this package of aid in the aftermath of the epidemic, and which clearly confirm this fact that it is trying to help the friends of the Prime Minister and, as I said, strengthen power through these things. One of such undershepherds is undoubtedly the help of the Roman Catholic Church or the priests. With this package you introduce a basic income for the clergy even though priests or churches as a whole, as an institution, do not pay any taxes, do not have any ties with the state, and is one of the richest institutions in the country. The institution with the highest assets. And at the same time, I understand that the basic income is given to the one who loses income. Why did she get it from the church? Did the church pay taxes? Was it financed in any other way? As it is said, it had nothing to do with the country, but it has a huge amount of property to feed itself from. And I'm seriously wondering why the church doesn't work in accordance with its teachings, but not that it's suctioning the country in these really difficult times. So, you know, on the one hand, you give the students 150 euros, and on the other hand, the clergy will get 700 euros. Here it is clear what the priorities of this government are, since we have, together with the entire opposition, repeatedly warned that this basic income for all students, equal to 150 euros, is irrelevant, because on the one hand we have students who have worked mainly in the guest sector, which has been closed for months and months and do not receive this money from work, and these students would deserve more compensation than those who do not need it. This was also pointed out by the advocate of equality. But the government's going through all of this. There are also a number of criticisms from the Law-Legal Service, which literally broke the law yesterday on the Committee, that we are not talking about social dialogue, because there is no social dialogue under this Government. Social dialogue is in fact no longer a partner. But this case, €700 for the priests and €150 for the students, shows what the priorities of this government are. As it turned out yesterday on the Education Committee, for all other sectors, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce will come to the Prime Minister and open the second day of trade. They come to the Prime Minister or write to him church dignitaries, allowing for at least partial implementation of these religious rituals. And the schools remain closed. And not only do they stay closed, there are no clear instructions when they will open. The Minister has already indicated that after the new year of school, then the Prime Minister at a press conference in Maribor denies this, and I understand that the Minister is in a difficult position, even though we obviously no longer have the Ministry of Education, we have only one executive body, the executive village of the Prime Minister, which meets those tasks that the Prime Minister does in the field of education. In short, this may not be a direct topic of today's debate, but in the field of education this government has fully covered. All of it. Apparently, young and educated children are the last concern of this government. So the Social Democrats of this PKP proposal absolutely cannot support me not to speak about the introduction of dissidentism. The punishment of those who are not according to the age of the government. Those who will be punished or opposed to the government will not be entitled to reimbursement of costs or State aid. Is that normal? I really don't know. It's just a dictatorship. And that's what you're taking us into, and I'm grateful to SMC today that at least with certain amendments he's eased things a little bit. In fact, the Government of Janez Janša also wanted to end the systematic financing of NGOs. Fortunately, this was withdrawn from the document yesterday on the SMC-supported committee and the entire democratic opposition. That's terrible. What you're doing is really scary. Every day, when we get a new bus from the victims of the Coronavirus, you get everything else thinking. In short, like seven times before, you have also used this anti-korona package for your particular higher goals in the nodules, and therefore I cannot absolutely support such a scribble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Replica mag. Koprivc, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u121	Mr. Secretary of State, you seem to have misunderstood me. I said that it was only possible for the talks to take place, but it is important that the social partners also agree in the end. Thank you very much. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u122	Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u124	We continue the debate. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the following word. But get ready, Mr. Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I think it is very important and very clear that it is once again necessary to stress. This government helps people and works for people. That is why we have seven PKPs ahead of us. This government doesn't live in clouds, but it solves people's problems. One is flossules, assaults, teasing, lies, deceptions, smooching, and the other is to solve people's real problems. And that's what this coalition and this government do. And at least what I would expect of everyone sitting here in Parliament to be aware of that. Today, I must say that I have listened to one of Mr Pollard's excellent discussions. I think he's hit zero with opposition and ideology. The key problem has been identified and clearly identified by the expert. And I hope that the moment has come for the sobriety of Slovenian society or, not Slovenian society, I apologize, Slovenian politics. Above all, the opposition parties, who have been in power for 25 years, 25 years from 30 years of independent Slovenia. How is it not awkward for you today to discuss and talk about what is wrong with this society and this country? And to disable this government at every turn, this coalition to do what it was called for and for which it was elected. And that's helping people no matter what color, no matter what political affiliation. And that's what he does. Thank God he's doing that. You do not succeed, you really do not succeed the Slovenian people along with the media you have to explain, convince the Slovenian people or most Slovenian people that you are right. You don't seem to make it. Most people at this point are aware of the problem, are aware of the importance of the problem and know that this problem needs to be resolved and trusted by the majority of this government. And one more thing. Today I listened to an attack on my colleague, Polnar, who tried to explain with arguments why he thought so and was attacked by someone from the LMŠ Members because he did not understand him. But he did not understand him because Mr Polnar did not speak the true falscule, deceiving, lying, instigating, but spoke with arguments. And it should be clear to you, dear colleagues and colleagues in the opposition, that arguments and actions are the only ones that count. Everything else is just these attacks, these separations, the scoundrels, the scoundrels, people have a suitcase full of them. [[Incomprehensible]] Simply, dear Slovenians and Slovenians, our citizens and citizens can no longer listen to this. You've really gone too far. But I do not say this to all Members of the opposition, some of you can also think soberly and also know what things to say positively. I listened to one debate today by a member group. Regardless of the criticism, she also said a lot of what was good. And I appreciate that. And that's the difference in politics, which one way we defend things in one way and the other in another. And in the end, sumarum suspicion must be a common solution, one that is important and which people want and for which we are actually called. Today, I have heard from the LMŠ that the government of Janez Janša, that is, this coalition works in the same way and too late. And I'm asking those of you who discussed it. You had your chance. Why didn't you stop? Please do not inspire someone if you have had this opportunity to exercise everything in your hands. They had the Prime Minister. And please don't do that again. Let us step together, and move forward, and these differences, which are not so scary, if there were no ideology in between, could be a lot of problems for people's well-being more quickly and more qualitatively solved. And then the second thing, I listened to from the SD, which has been in power for at least 20 years in this independent state, is to take systemic measures. Then I heard that even in the debate, that's what I find extremely inappropriate, throwing money out the window. So when we accepted the seven PKPs, when we helped the workers and helped the workers, helped the employers, helped the craftsmen, helped the pensioners, the students, the firefighters now also in PKP-7, and could still list, so we threw money through the windows. This is what one of the discussers of the SD said here today. Now, please tell me nicely, whether our citizens are worth less, is it to you when you say that when we give money to all vulnerable groups, to the economy and everything that is at this point exposed to the fact that this is a waste of money through the window? [[Incomprehensible]] Please, what's wrong with you? Please tell me what's wrong with you. Well, you just can't afford that. When we see for ourselves, and all this second sentence, and then how it's necessary and who we've let go and we haven't helped. But when we do that when we try to listen to everyone, we finally hear that we're throwing money out the window, and that's by SD, which was at least 20, if not 25 years in power. Look, I mean, that's, that's, that goes beyond all the limits of good taste, really all the limits of good taste. And this government with this PKP7 helps students, helps virtually all vulnerable groups not to speak to pensioners. In one year, the other supplement they need is absolutely needed because they have pensions there, so I won't talk about it, about 300, 400, 500, 600 euros. Thank God for this month's pension. More has this government done for the pension part of our population than all other governments together to this point in their one year. And you can't take that. That's exactly why you're angry because you won't come to power with lies and deception, believe me, you won't come. And you can say what you want, Slovenian citizens and citizens have a constantly clearer picture that there are one word and the other acts. And at this point it is very clear that people in these difficult circumstances are only interested in actions, and this government is also through this law of work. And finally, to give my colleagues some time to discuss, I would, because I am very sorry that, except for one gentleman from the Left, he is not here, but I would really give Mr Kordiš a mask with the Slovenian flag.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u126	Mr. Pojibich, please, if you'll sit down.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u127	Yes, I'm sorry, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u129	With the Slovenian flag, it is known which are the symbols of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, when it gained its independence, that it is the Slovenian flag, the Slovenian coat of arms. And now I will give it to him and I will give it to him on his desk to see and carry in the Slovenian Parliament or Slovenian coat of arms or the Slovenian flag on the mask that he wears, which is in the extreme case, I must say, are allowing what in the Slovenian Parliament should not be allowed by any one if he speaks of being a member of the Slovenian people in the Slovenian Parliament. So I give him this mask and I take it to his desk. This concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u130	Yes, thank you very much. I don't know if this mask is really important right now and the thing about the law that we're currently dealing with, but okay, nice gesture, there's nothing to it, Mr. Pojbich. Mr. Pojbič, you put it on the table and your colleague will already be wearing a mask. [[Laughing in the hall]] And if you'll excuse me, we'd like to continue the debate now. Thank you, Mr. Pojbich. The next one has the word, Mr Joseph Lenart. Get ready, Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. It's a nice welcome to all the guests from the Ministry. Dear Members and Members. So the proposal of the Law on Intervention Measures to Help cull the effects of the second wave, or after the domestic PKP7, is ahead of us. A busy piece of material to study, on 150 pages about. The main objective of this law is to mitigate and address the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic in the areas of economy, work, labour relations, social protection, health care. The financial impact of the seventh anti-Korona package is estimated by the Minister of Finance of Mag. It's about 550 million. A number of measures in the field of the economy will therefore make it easier for economic operators to cope with the epidemic and survive. However, survival needs to be given especially to those activities which have been effectively halted or reduced by government decisions due to government decisions and their capacity to do so is certainly being launched. So, we are talking about the existence and preservation of jobs and now, to preserve jobs to the greatest extent possible, it has been from the beginning somehow the plan of this government, because we are all well aware of what happens when, I don't know, unemployment due to some crisis, due to some economic or other matter, jumps by 30%, say. But, to be honest, this moment, we don't have some drastic increase in unemployment here, but of course we have a kind of moderate increase in terms of what unemployment was like last year. And if we go to the fact that this crown somehow hit us like lightning from a clear or, perhaps, I can express myself differently, it was as unannounced as that earthquake today in Croatia – I want everything good to our neighbors – but I say, suddenly and of course, the health of all the world's population at once on impact and so on, I will say, it also hit the world economy and forward, if now someone doesn't want to understand that this is the whole problem of the world dimension, then if he doesn't want to understand here or outside this hall, I can't force him, but still, I've been saying, so, save jobs with this package, something else, but basically we're doing a good job. Last year it was the end of December, according to the data of the Employment Service and the average number was similar, for 2019, according to the statistics of this Institute, about 74 thousand 200 people were reported at the Institute. So somehow, I'm going to say, this year, despite this widespread closure of activities and crises, even economics, we could say that we have 84,000 unemployed people, or 84,000 800 unemployed people registered in the institution, this is data for the end of November, that is, then I have to touch on the fact that if we literally started this crisis, this crown began to reduce us, that these are not such drastic figures that Slovenia could not at some time normalize itself and put on its feet also in this regard and employ more of these, as we said, about 11,000 people, which is more than that moment. But I must also touch on Mr Pecko's discussions from the LMŠ, which today somehow indicated that only in tourism and hospitality was there an increase of 11 000 unemployed people. So if we add this together now, 74,000 200 last year, then 11,000 of his or all of his or all of his, in addition to the inn, we have a total of 85,000 200 unemployed people. Today, says the Employment Service, the statistics say we have 84 thousand 800. Somehow, then, you can see that someone, this one, I'm going to say whether he read it quickly or did a little populism and I hope that Mr Bandelli wasn't right, that the other party was already running an electoral campaign. So, given that I have applied for the debate on the amendments, I will also touch on this 28th article, which, somehow, has been submitted to the anti-Korona package of 7 by this SDS amendment and New Slovenia, but it is necessary to know that, in view of these changes relating to the Labour Relations Act, it is now more clearly defined, so I think the solution has been good before, but it is now clearer how those who have actually reached the full retirement age and, on the other hand, will somehow, after the agreement with the employer, continue to retire when, if we say so, they have reached the full retirement age. It is simply, I don't know what isn't, it was understood correctly, but the fact that in the law of this measure and the amendment of the Labour Relations Act, following the wishes of local communities, the wishes of, I don't know, administrative units, the wishes of employers in public institutions, who have somehow employed even people who have been terribly few lately at work for this or other reason, and, of course, now that they didn't have a hard time, they wouldn't retire. But if someone, I don't know, has been at home for six months and we've heard that from more mayors. If someone's been staying at your house for six months, but now I'd like to extend what it is, working time, then I have to say that we all have to be a little funny together to actually support this. And of course I'm saying that they were then, not to say that this government and these ministers are not listening to the local community. So somehow, by forcing people to retire and stuff like that, it's totally inappropriate. I will continue to say that it is about what is already, the article or around this amendment of this law in the anti-korona package that a bunch of lies have somehow been spread. Of course, the main distributors and then the media were Mr Mesec and Mr Kordish. Then it will happen that any other current LMSH protectors will approach, and I will also say those who are actually regular movers from one to the other. So let's face it, and I'm not talking about forced retirement. In general, therefore, our entrepreneurs and employees are satisfied with the current measures. The law was created on the basis of some I will say hard work, including some cooperation of all the parties in the coalition, and then there were also the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, entities such as the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, actually participated in the Economic Social Council. Of course, in these laws from the first to the last, there is also a lot of time pressure, which means that we cannot take an effective action and I don't know, delay for another two months if we want him to grasp that it will have an effect on him. So there's always a bit of a rush, but I think that from those previous laws that have been passed, there's still some way that there's going to be more and better solutions and more involved in this kind of advisory group of experts that, if I say so, are getting better and of course are being heard. So, the obvious Left, that the law somehow does not solve social issues, that it does not solve economic issues, health issues, it is only those who believe it, therefore, that is wrong. And that's just not true. Now if I were to say, look at all of these 150 pages in particular, we see that there are concrete solutions in there; these are the solidarity allowance of 50 euros for one of the parents, for every child under 18 years of age, if of course they receive child support, then I will say that parents are very happy to talk to them. Then they'll have it in the account somehow. 1. 2021, there are no applications. Then 150 euros to the students. I believe that for some rich, rich family, of course, it's not some kind of money, but for most, I'll say the good ones, which somehow come from a purely average family, and 150 euros is pretty good money, and I'll say it comes in just in case. It used to be a human resources scholarship about a decade ago. The students were happy to sign it, and then they had to actually do it at a company. Today they no longer want to do this, so we can also have a picture of what is happening to us, so that youth is also a little more selective. So, the solidarity allowance for families covered by Article 93 of the PKP-7, that is to say, these 100 Euros to the family for 3 children and 200 Euros for families with four or more children. I'm gonna say this, it's kind of nice. Family policy is changing from this government to better. Then 500 euros for every newborn, great stuff. We heard a pregnant mother say "and I get one." Thus, people expect these difficult times when it is known that household consumption is also somehow higher due to certain measures. So there are couples who are actually very happy. I'm gonna tell someone who just likes children a little less, or what I'm gonna say, someone who might not actually want them doesn't mean anything to him. To those who, of course, want to make a friendly family policy, help families, I don't know if there will be more births, but I think that some motivational element is, so that in many steps we can also increase our birth rate, but also this why we should not increase our birth rate in couples born in Slovenia if we can do this in any way, because there is no problem with those who have somehow moved in recently, but there are, I don't know, three, four, five children. So something is also good here to be done. Save as they are, some have already been in previous packages some are new. Somehow the international community, if I say so, the European Commission is not putting us in the last place, as it is hearing here today, is saying that we have not been so unsuccessful. Even the International Monetary Fund, in fact, notes that, on the basis of these measures, the resurgence of the Slovenian economy can be rapid, so if we overcome this crisis, we will be again ranked between the growing European economy or the growing economy. So we started the vaccination somehow. I can also see, I can say that we see, somehow, the light at the end of the tunnel, that we are moving slowly towards the end, that we have fought successfully, that we will also fight these measures when we overcome this crisis and overcome the disease, of course, we will live a more normal life, because, as we say, I am breaking the law, of course I am also supporting vaccination against the disease and addressing all those who are accompanying us, you are being vaccinated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u132	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The next is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, prepare the mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u133	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I must, indeed, respond, although I did not want some so-called ideological debate today, but I am obliged to respond to my fellow Member, Koprivec. You know, all the time from his mouth to listen to how we have dictatorship and authority in the country, see, it has its limits. Really, everything has its limits. And, fellow Member, these borders are constantly crossing. You know, dictatorship, authoritarianism, as he calls it, we really knew that. We knew at a time when his client had power over the whole country. We knew that. But you know, if we were still living in these times today, then, of course, a fellow Member here would say what was right for him, and I would be lying in a bad pit. That's right, my dear. That's what happened, and there's no denying it. And there's no denying that. So please, my dear fellow, to abstain from such comments, because we have all been sitting here, except for the exceptions, elected to the elections, democratic elections and, of course, democratically representing our electorates and voters. I have also heard today that there is a lack of confidence between citizens and citizens that there is some uncertainty. Look, uncertainty is certainly present, because we are facing viruses, diseases that the world did not know, that literally cut through the night, and people, of course, were used to us somehow, so that we can control everything that our society is so developed that virtually nothing can surprise us anymore. But look at the fraction, just a moment was needed and in fact the whole world was in some uncertainty, in that in fact it did not know in what way and how to act, of course, to come out of this crisis without consequences, it simply did not work. The consequences are here, and they're everywhere. Now there's something about fatalities. True, I feel sorry for every death victim, either because of the quiver or when it comes to the quiver. Actually, that's the difference. Every death victim makes me sick. You know, there's one thing that comforts me. In Slovenia, there was no scenario that anyone with this disease would be assisted by health care. Everyone who needed it got it in one way or another. All were helped and the health system, whatever it was, in those 20 years, when you, especially those in the opposition today, did not build much on it, built up, upgraded. So once again all congratulations to all those who fight in the first battle lines and help us to have beautiful stories, that we also have people who have overcome this disease, even though the original health picture showed otherwise. As far as distrust is concerned, however, there is certainly a lack of confidence in politics among people. I agree with that. You know, in a time of as severe a crisis as it is that part of a policy does one thing, and that's how to bring down the current government. And that's why he's looking for all kinds of ways. What we read in the media, about pressures and so on, it's bad for a man. Let us also discuss this once in this national assembly. The government of Mariana Sharca has not been demolished. She went down on her own. You were involved in it, but today you are overthrowing the government. And that at the time of the worst crisis. Do you think that's in people's interest? Do you really believe that it is in the interest of people at this time when they should be dealing with the crisis, looking for the best possible solutions, that someone is overthrowing the government. Is power really so important to some that they cannot endure without it for a year? But here we have to think and see what we can do for greater unity. This coalition consists of different parties of different views and participates. You were all invited to a partnership, but you didn't accept it, I'm sorry. We could do a lot of good together, but of course you gave it up. Now for some answers. Comrade Jani Möderndorfer, he sometimes has very interesting discussions, but the conscience of this mistrust of people in the government, I constantly listen to it. Look what the trust of anyone in this country is from politicians will say the elections. Let's all face it there. And that's all that's reliable information, nothing else. I can't talk about how many people trust you on that side, and you're gonna have a hard time talking about how they trust us. That's what voters and voters will say. It is strange for me to hear this from the politics of the old cat, Jani Möderndorfer, who was not even elected to this Parliament because people did not trust him. And by some online coincidence, he came to this national council. But you know, that's ridiculous, but I don't think a politician like that should be able to afford it. About this trust and mistrust, look, let's leave it to the voters and voters, and they know for sure what and how. Now, let's have a little debate. In Levica, I listened to no solution to housing policy, no rescue at home for the elderly. Dear Left, good morning. One year you've been paddling in the government, then you've helped bring it down first, because you're anyway destroyers because as an ultra-left policy, you're the chaos of the most beautiful area. That's how you came to power, of course, in your past, I speak in my history. And since your colleagues are writing about what needs to be done to bring about a social coup, then we understand where your policy is going. Only I hope you know you're playing with fire. But anyway, you were in power, so tell me the same home that you started building, at least the shovel, if you stuck it. Of course he's not. What have you done with housing policy? I don't know. Perhaps more about housing policy will be able to tell your colleague Luka Mesec how to get to an apartment in the middle of Ljubljana. I can't imagine. But I know something. That in this crisis, many are affected by this crisis, that the economy is affected and that individual social groups are affected. And, of course, it's bad for me, but when I try to act in such a way that there are decisions that help them in some way as much as possible and that we step in, I will say the opposite. Therefore, those who have talked a lot today about spending and throwing money out the window, you know, never, ever, really must be hesitant when it comes to helping people and the economy. Here I just think it's immature to talk, but what this consumption brings now. I think it's very important in this matter, but it seems to me that the incorrectness that is repeated today, I think, at least on the part of Koprivac, I think that from the left side, too, the priests will get the money. Your Honor, this is a temporary measure for all religious officials. All religious servants, regardless of which church or other religious community is registered, will receive help. But, you know, you're gonna say what we're going to do, give the priests money, I'm having a really hard time hearing it. In fact, we really need to dehumanize a group in this society just because we have different, I don't know, religious beliefs or some people don't. Can't these people get sick after a coed? Do we really have to literally put these people at the door of the country? But on the other hand, there are many who seek their help in this way and in different ways. But I understand something that is said primarily by those who have a history of knowing that you can take everything away from a man, but you can't take away his spirit. And it's hard for some to deal with. Then it seems very important to me because it has been repeated that literally workers who have conditions of retirement are thrown onto the road. That's not true. The article makes it clear that the employer can resign. Yes, you can. If the employer sees added value in someone, he probably won't. If he knows there's no one who can do this job better, no smart employer will do it. Now the fear that Baković has raised if there is no real political colour, I think that it is somehow fitting in the past, from which it also comes, and then the jobs were divided by which political colours you were, whether you had the right booklet or not. I think that fear is too much. The experts are all happy and I believe that there would be nothing different here too, so I see no reason why such a panic in this article, which, of course, on the other hand, does enable job vacancies, for example, for some job that is needed and found by the same person. I don't see anything wrong or wrong here. It's a lot of good stuff. Today we listened to what the so-called seventh package brought. Now, what is, of course, now is no longer in the marriage, but I think it's okay because of citizens and citizens. No one has stopped funding non-governmental organisations. Moreover, the income that any citizen can make for a particular organisation increases from zero to one per cent. Thus, some NGOs could receive much more. Today, we have a different system, a system that divides what remains. I don't know if that key is the fairest. I say that there are still a lot of these NGOs that are also doing well, but let's leave this alone, because this is my personal opinion, and I know for sure that 1% of citizens know exactly who they are. But if the citizens don't recognize you, then someone will find it hard to convince me that the organization is for the good of the country and for the benefit of the country as a society. There's a lot in this package. And when I was listening, it was rare that he could say anything over this seventh package, everyone was saying something in general, because it was really a huge help. Assistance to newborns, assistance to those children, €50 for each child, assistance to the group, those with the lowest wages, firefighters also have a particular form of assistance, also helping with rents, there are different options for this assistance when it comes to individual entrepreneurs and so on. It's huge, and I'm not gonna say it again. I don't mean to be a populism, but there's a lot of good in this. And many citizens will be happy to do so. Even students, though I've heard, some of them aren't enough. Just one more sentence, and that's what I have to say. Rumor has it that kindergartens and schools are closed. That's not true. That's not true. Gardens work for those children who have literally no other form of assistance. Although we're in some kind of epidemiological situation. Schools work, they just work remotely. And it's true that it's harder that it's a tougher form of education, but the school is going on. The lesson is underway. But it's true that it's harder for parents not to be easy, but the epidemic has claimed its own. But they're not closed. You do wrong to teachers who try to help students as far away as possible. And I can tell you that I have a student son who can call a teacher at any time. And they help them. So here too, teachers faced a new situation and were able to cope well. And all congratulations to them. But I believe it's harder. And one more thing. It was said that this government did not listen to experts. This, however, is not only barefoot, but very, I will say, very rude and irresponsible to all those who, of course, deal with the situation in the country every day and are experts. And they're experts. But it's not necessarily that you're just an expert on Nina Pirnat, because she was from the right party again, but remember, her action was a coughing cough. So let us give the bit “fair” not only to look at who is yours, who is ours, but especially to see that we come out of this crisis with as few consequences as possible. And, once again, I want this package to bring something good to the citizens. Unlike the previous government, this government has been working all this time to reach this, including the National Assembly, which I look forward to, unlike last year, when the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education wished people “Merry Christmas, in dirty animals.” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u134	Thank you very much for this debate. Before I give you a replica of mag. Koprivnik, I am still obliged as chairman to remind or point out that, given that you mentioned persons who are not here to defend themselves, I should simply explain that Mrs Nina Pirnat was taking measures when the epidemic was not yet there or when one, two, maybe three, a day, not a few thousand, so that, just so that we are correct in our deliberations. Here you go, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u135	Yes, I'm afraid I can't give you a replica, but I'm going to give you a procedural one, if you've already shaved your hair on my debate, respectfully, we could get shaved when there are individual Members in here, people who aren't here today, calling themselves not experts. I'm sorry, I'm just... [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u136	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u137	Just replied that it was not just one expert [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u138	I understand. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u139	And it's not just experts coming from one political option. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u140	Thank you very much for this replica, which was not a procedural proposal, because, probably we both agree, but you know that I was conducting this meeting, now one hour, you were three debaters on your turn, and if you led it, you would also point out that there are incorrect references about people who are not sitting in this room. So, I warned you when they discredit anyone who doesn't sit in this room and has no chance to respond to words. Now, mag. Koprivc, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. First of all, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, the former secretary of state at the Ministry of Education, did not so celebrate Christmas, so you interpret, but he “retivated” a matter, a satirical story, and he did not celebrate such a Christmas, and this has already been said too many times. Second thing, when NIZ led Mrs. Pirnat, we were winners. Today we are and have even flown planes over Ljubljana and over Slovenia. [[…]] Today we are the winners of the death toll. And I wouldn't want to get into this, but you're the one who exposed it. Next thing you know, about education, when you replicated it to me, we're obviously winners here, considering how long schools are closed. And you can also say that they're not closed, that the teaching is done remotely, and it's better that it's as if the teaching wasn't, but it's not the same. It's not just teaching knowledge, it's much more than that. It is also a socialization moment and many others. So, please, don't fool around, and I appeal to everyone to open schools as soon as possible in accordance with the NIJ recommendations. At the end of November, records were leaked from the government group, namely the NIJZ, or the epidemiological group, where certain representatives had already warned that schools should be opened and that the Government had not decided to do so. As for these so-called priests of yours, I would like to reiterate that I just wanted to explain or prove where they were damaged by the crisis. This is the only question – where were they harmed to be eligible for a basic income of €700 per month? Why were they injured? And, I'm sorry, if that's why I'm dehumanizing the parishioners, I'm interested in who's humane students, who you give them a one-time amount of 150 euros, given that they've been proven to be injured, especially those who work through the student service, so they can survive, but unfortunately they can't work at the moment because of the circumstances. That shows the priorities of this government. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, about the forests [[sign for the end of the debate]] And these stories of yours, communism and so on, best to ask your President, Janez Janša, who was a good member of the Communist Union, one of the greatest advocates of militarization. It was so extreme that even our Communist Union, which had been democratized at the time, did not want to have it in its ranks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Montenegro for a procedural proposal, let me just explain with regard to your implementation, Mr Montenegro. I'm guessing what your procedural proposal will be, and I'm going to explain that replica mag. The Koprivča was a correct replica, given that it referred to Mrs Anje Bah Žibert's debate, which was very, very broad and I have assessed that Mr Koprivc could have been in this debate and explained his position or explanation of what he was misunderstood. Now, please, Mr Montenegro, have a word for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u143	Madam President-in-Office. I must say that I have listened very carefully to both speeches and I must say that I have been very, very dismayed because you did not act before because I am Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, which I can also quote "every debater has the right to reply to the debate of another debater, in which case a replica, as far as this relates to his debate, if he thinks that his debate was misunderstood or misinterpreted". What we heard from Koprivac's colleague was a clean, clean debate. And that is why we have the opportunity to report in kind, once again, and we are discussing this. Because I think [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u144	Mr. Montenegro, what is your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u145	My procedural to finish, I have three minutes at my disposal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u146	Here you go, but let me limit myself to a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u147	I've got three minutes. My procedural proposal is that since this meeting is guided by some very loose rules of procedure, I propose a 10-minute recess. [[Laughing in the hall]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u148	Mr Montenegro, I thank you for this super procedural proposal, which I reject. And let me tell you that if you listened carefully to Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's discussion as a discussion by Mr Koprivac, you could hear that Mrs Anja Bah Žibert literally addressed or spoke to Mr Koprivac because her discussion in large segments touched his debates – I see, yes. And she even mentioned him in person. So I don't see any problem, if Mr Koprivc has assessed it, because it says in this article that you quoted it, you read it very successfully. If the Member considers that his debate was misunderstood, and Mr Koprivc has assessed it this way, given that Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has had a very, very broad debate and I do not see any problems in such replicas. Now, if Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert wishes to do so on a procedural basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u149	Absolutely, Chairman. Now you're in charge of the session, you're interpreting the rules of procedure, but please don't have double criteria. John Janša is not in this hall, nor can he defend himself. You warned me, you warned me, because I mentioned the name of one of the former directors, and you didn't warn Mr Koprivec when he mentioned his name. And now it would be fair to give me permission to replicate the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u150	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, I understand your procedural proposal to give you the opportunity of replicating the replica, but let me warn you or remind you – Mr Janez Janša is Prime Minister of the Government [[There's a riot in the hall.]] and, as President of the Government, he is justified, he is not obliged, but he is entitled to sit in this Chamber when the law proposed by the Government is being examined and he can participate in the debate. Now a replica of the replica is only allowed if I, as chairman, assess that there have been any untruths in the replica. I didn't track them, so I won't give you the replicas. Once again, Mr President of the Government has every opportunity to participate in the debate and to deny any claims that arise in the debate, while Mrs Pirnat does not have this option, we know that. Now, if you'll excuse me, we'll proceed with the debate. Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Dušan Verbič, get ready, Mr. Franz Trček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. Some nervousness is present in this National Assembly, but it is obvious that there is a somehow appropriate time, as well as a length, to deal with today's issue, and I would expect less political debate to be more substantive. I will not go in that direction so that I can somehow get myself down to something, who, why someone has said something, because I think it could be justified, but also on the basis of yesterday's meeting of the Home Finance Committee, because a lot of the people here are also members of the Finance Committee and I will devote myself to the content, I think it's much more constructive, because I am aware that the role of the opposition is to oppose certain proposals and the coalition actually advocates what is being tabled. Pika. We are with PKP 7, a law that I can say and join all those who have already said before me that this PKP 7 is practically intended for the so-called changed circumstances if I summarize the words of the President of the Court of Auditors. It is exclusively related to COVID-19 and its or its purpose to this PKP 7, it is in the best or best interests mainly to help the economy and persons. You know, over the course of the day, when I listened to all the possible debaters, I literally ask myself the question, I am sorry that there was somehow a change of government in March of this year, how would the then government, which would still be today, in those relationships of mutual cooperation, among the key carriers, I am speaking to the executive branch of government, how they would control now that we are in the full time of the epidemic. Perhaps there will be time for us to devote more time to it. I myself will follow the words and recommendations of the first one who led today's National Assembly, which has somehow recommended, propose, call for us to be more limited to the area of the amendments tabled, and I intend to devote myself to this debate, literally, in this remainder of the time, to the so-called 28th and 29th Articles. There was a lot of controversy yesterday, and there was a lot of talk about it today, and I must admit immediately that it was by the opposition debaters, the following words were literally spoken. These two articles, which are in the PKP 7, are pure underlings, this is forced retirement, today even one of the respected colleagues said, you're sending old people to retirement and so on. You know, I am firmly in the position that I feel a little bit sick, that those who have used these words in their political debate are literally giving a sign or a message that they are virtually unaware of some part of the labour law, that I will not talk about the employment contract. And I will continue to try to justify as much as possible what may have seemed strange to someone. For the introduction certainly the position of the Law-Legal Service, which was mentioned many times yesterday, but also today, I can say that the Law-Legal Service has written a lot in this regard, articles 28 and 29, devoted a lot of time, and those who also wanted to get more substantively could simply take time and read well. However, I am always in the position to respect the decision of the Legal and Legislative Service, but I also have the opportunity to have a different position in certain matters. For, if I am specific, the Legislative and Legal Service has written in relation to Articles 28 and 29 that the proposal for a law relating to these two articles is common, that they are constitutionally controversial. Pike and nothing else. On many sides of the explanation, reference to some constitutional decisions and so forth. In doing so, it referred to Article 49 of the Constitution. And here I am also obliged in this case to present in my debate what article 49 of the Constitution says, freedom of work. Firstly, freedom of work is guaranteed, secondly, every free choice of employment, every person is accessible under the same conditions and forced labour is prohibited. And, Your Honor, who provides or offers a job? Here we are now on this definition of employer-employer, which is very clear in Articles 28 and 29. No forced retirement and no sending of old people to the pension, because the proposals we have are very clear: the employer can send the employer and so on. Now whoever wants to understand this will understand. Those who do not wish to do so, however, will certainly have, through political debate in the context of the opposition, a debate that will certainly please, if I may call it, sympathizers. I am still in the position of the legal service, and I would like to read just one more sentence. In a wide-ranging professional debate, and I must admit that I am very grateful to them, they wrote down in this, which refers to a constitutional decision from a long time ago and say: it is the first and so far only decision where the Constitutional Court, taking into account the current reasons and conditions, has defined the constitutional permissibility of interference with the prohibition, which has been repeatedly said in the debate, of discrimination based on age. And what I believe is very important in the debate in assessing Articles 28 and 29 of this Annex. It does: it does not, however, ensure that this constitutional standard is based on Article 49 of the Constitution on the sustainability of employment and even less on the persistence of employment in a given job. Which means whether we want to understand this or not as representatives of the legislative branch of power. I am firmly in the position that it is high time that a provision came into Slovenia, even though it is here in the PKP7, that retirement is not just and only the right of an employee. I am firmly in the position that the employer must also have the opportunity, if I may say so, to have some discretionary right, of course optional, in relation to the employer. And if I can continue in this context in advance. As it is said, the Constitution lays down the right to work or, in particular, as I read from the Constitution itself, freedom of work. And once again, I am very clear on the question, and who is responsible for this? Who provides work in the Republic of Slovenia? Politics certainly isn't. Just and only the employer, whether we are in the economy or in the public sector. Furthermore, who sets up, sets up a vision, a strategy, a company's objectives, who makes an annual business report, who produces a systematisation act, a job that is the basis for employment, whether it is in the economy or in the public sector? And how can constitutional right to work literally be realized if you do not have an employer? This, I must admit, is a key issue that no one will ever touch in a political debate. The fact is that, on the one hand, when placed in the position of employer, he is literally responsible for all work processes, that I will not speak from the start of the job offer, as well as from the following choice, conclusion or decision on the choice, conclusion of the employment contract and that is followed by work and appropriate payment, of course, if we are very consistent, on the basis of the expected results of the work. In short, the employer employs people according to the necessary work processes. Pika. Nothing else. Not because the employer chooses to. Everyone is on the free market and free choice is in accordance with the Constitution. But when we talk about a person fulfilling a cumulative 40 or 60, whatever the terms of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, it is not practical to be a decisive factor in the continuation of his or her career simply by the employer alone. I'll be very abstract simply because of easier understanding. I can say that the employee, as I have already mentioned, is not offered employment of the employer practically of this institution, and is also implementing and not in nature. We don't even know the definition of an employee. And also this constitutional category, the right to work, can only become a letter on paper, which can in one way or another be turned into different debates, which simply by content is nothing. I myself am firmly aware that a company or public sector cannot function or operate if you do not have both. The employer and the employee. However, it must be aware of this, and even in the political debate, that in a relationship, who plays a key role, when it goes through some systemisation or the processes needed to work to ensure so-called employment. And here I will end up at this point, mainly because of this, because it is completely unreasonable to discuss these two articles. No employer is so foolish that a person who meets the cumulative conditions for an old-age pension would not want to keep it, to the extent that it is appropriate, to the extent that it achieves the expected results of the work, I will not speak if that company, the company in some technological development, is still a key segment. To say that this is a literal mass termination or retirement is purely political misappropriation and simply abuse of the proposer of this Article. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The next one is Dr. Franc Trček and then as the last in this round, Mrs Jerca Korče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. If I am following the meeting properly, we are still at Article 1 which goes beyond Article 70b and is linked to the STA, which has already been mentioned, so that I will not put this into words. Now, I want you so, you've all gone wide, alone I won't be so wide, today, even Bojani stays for a while. Slovenia is essentially a young democracy, and already this EMŠO makes it fragile. We make it even more fragile for politicians in a narrower sense if we are not well-intentioned and self-inflicted. Although I solemnly swear like the French nudists on the secularity of our country, I will mention Capuchin's brother Geržan, who, last time at Tilen Artacz, said very much that Slovenia is a multivote singing and that we have problems with the choirs who do not understand it. After all, that's pretty much what we're showing here today. We are talking about half a billion, and by the executive branch of power, there is only an on-call secretary of state. Approximately, you know, in serious parliamentary democracy, of course, the Prime Minister or Prime Minister would also be here, but this is a derogation that we are already accustomed to since Janez Janša. If we ask ourselves, what does PKP law do? Health care, not only the pandemic part, but also how pandemics, as far as possible, also have still functioning Slovenian public health, economy, culture, also film, of course education, critical infrastructure, including firefighters and, of course, what we call social or previous questions about the cost of life. And it fits in the PKP. But we have something that every PKP has then called a set-up and then, as a fellow Jew put it, the threat has been removed or not and we are actually dealing with it. I'll tell you, we had a group of MPs this morning and we sang a little bit and we talked about this term, candy. And at the end of the day, we agreed that this expression was not only inappropriate, but also offensive. We're listening from the coalition, and you from the opposition like to talk. If Masha were here, I'd say, but you wouldn't, haha. Some candy, if I use that term, we're kind of going over some amendments. But you know, maybe these are for us candy bars, including that young mom who's going to get 500 euros, for that gentleman who, today in Maribor or in Hotch, counted a puppy on a tank, asked me if you had any euro. That's not a candy bar. In short, let's be respectful and stop being offensive to people. I have two dates written here: today's date, 29. 12 and 29. 2. 29. 2. It was already clear to all of us what lies ahead, what is coming. In mid-February we were members and members of the Health Committee at UKC, we also talked to Mrs Lejka Zupanc, we saw that it was not an infection of a good team, but that the infrastructure was, to put it mildly, not a flowering state. And we have today's moment, which, despite the exchange of the first person of statistics, shows that with Belgium and San Marino, we are the least successful in fighting the Covid pandemic. And you can't attribute that to the media, not to cyclists, not to democratic opposition, not to Sharc, not to Kucan and not to Soros. And we've got some sort of creaking in between. On one side of the coalition, we are the best in the universe, on the other side of the opposition, the end of the world. It also happens to us, as I have said many times before, that what we are not a party to, we have been a private company of one man for decades in this National Assembly, now coming back from the forest in the least appropriate moments. Today I also spoke with a very high-ranking Slovenian in the European Commission about the Fund for Reconstruction and Development. I'd rather talk about it. Because we're not going to spend this money praising the current coalition. He made that very clear, it seems to me that the Undersecretary of Infrastructure at the Studio was 17 hours ago. And we're always wasting time with a set-up, fighting over what's called a candy better, but in the meantime we're not dealing with a key matter. With the key three issues of how to finally do what the whole of Europe has done, get the children to school, how to think the economy, and how to do it in a new state of health. I now have here the cumulative data of the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, yesterday's date, waiting for work, a certain quarantine, number of deposits 47 thousand 29, number of persons 277 thousand 305, reduced working hours 14 thousand 978 applications, number of persons 68 thousand 841. The living God does not know what will happen next autumn and let us all stop pushing ourselves together and coming out of this inequality, because even a number of things we do not know, good informants always tell the decision makers what they know and what they do not know and then their work ends there, they might even discuss a little about Owl, because it is high time that in a multivote, beyond the levelling “oneum” we reconsider the measures because they are not thinking enough of them. You know, to me personally, this balancing machine is in a way, often, let's give everyone the same, because it's the simplest, most criminal. Because we live in very different conditions, very different environments. One of you've been so mutilating students today that they'll eventually work so that we can have pensions so that someone can wipe our ass if I tell them at home. And I've worked my whole life with students before, and sometimes it's been my turn, and I can honestly admit that when a student or a student came to me, and I told her, Mr. Professor, until then I can't do that and why you can't, and then they told me a family story or a life story - I don't know, I have a night shift paid well, I help my parents, I am and there Let's be a lot more respectful than we are right now. [[…]] Now, I have no longer the illusion that this government will change anything under the current Prime Minister of the Government. You know, but all the governments in Slovenia have collapsed on their own. Not just in Slovenia. I'm not dealing with the collapse of this government. This government is collapsing itself, and in fact, since the first government meeting, when you destroyed the precious masks it was missing in 15 minutes. Then, 10 minutes later, on the side of New Slovenia, they told us that you are very domestically purchasing, and that even though Tonin will have a headache, then on the supply reserves, which were more fevd SDS, he experienced a whistle, but everything else is history and we are at a quota of 2 thousand 631 which are not corpses for me, as the leader of the New Slovenia Group said. These are lives, these are some people many of whom would still live. To conclude, I would like to apologize to the citizens and citizens of Zimbabwe, whom John Janša today insulted. Someone who's been in government for 10 years in the 1930s, someone who's the president of the government, is the last one to do such a stupid thing. I apologize to them, we are not all like this in Slovenia and, of course, good luck, a healthful 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u154	Thank you very much. As the last in this round, Mrs Jerca Korča gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u155	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everyone. Now, with regard to the form and properness of such laws as the Government brings to the National Assembly, much has already been said. The legal and legal service has finally said its own on, I think, 55 pages, already torn up only form and form, as you are preparing these laws. Today, we have heard from our colleagues in the SDS that the crown virus is a problem of global proportions, with which we absolutely all agree, but stupid measures, and the stupidity of this government, which is one of our completely local issues, which has nothing to do with the fact that the virus is global. And how an individual country faces a crisis that it has fallen into is a matter of individual government, and here are the obviouss, by the opposition. Colleagues in the SDS are also very disturbed if anyone mentions that dictatorship. We are not exactly in dictatorship, but we can rightly say that we have at least schizophrenic power. Schizophrenia is about the breakdown of basic mental processes and what is happening in Slovenia is at least mildly referred to as schizophrenic power. Now we are going to these crises, which are why we are even accepting these anti-korona packages. The first issue is the health crisis. You don't get the curve of infection. Despite all the measures, all the restrictions you take have been valid for several months or two months. Nothing happens to her. Nothing happens to her. What's more, obviously we all kind of became immune to numbers 20, 30, 40 dead every day. Two thousand 600 plus death. Today, colleague Anja Bah Žibert said that she was happy — first she was saddened by death and, on the other hand, she was happy that no one had been deprived of health care. Really? Do you really believe what you're saying? What about the other diseases? At the expense of what, at the expense of the cancellation of other health activities, the capacity for crowns was provided to patients who were growing due to schizophrenia, the schizophrenia we have. Due to the years involved, information about total disrespect for professional underdogs and recommendations is now coming to the public today. [[…]] These are the first reasons for such a major health crisis in Slovenia. Second, the economic crisis. When you close something up, when you decide to take some action, you have to have action already in the background. This government also works schizophrenicly in the field of economic crisis from today to tomorrow, a little back-up, a little repair of packages back-up. And that's not normal. And the deepening of the economic crisis, that this bureaucratic puzzle is such as to obtain aid, so that it is not drawn from the liquidity scheme or anything else, is due to the government's actions, not to the opposition, not to some global trend, but to how this government has decided to resolve. The third crisis is the social crisis. To highlight “no one has been released”. It's not a question of whether you let someone go or not. It's about how you decide whether you have a reason to have any kind of analysis. And the direct question I raise to the Minister of Finance every time, and in no package is this matter resolved, even in this package no, is who and why he decided to leave young people just like that. Why? Students lost at least €75 million of gross earnings this year. The student labour drop is about 30 percent. I'm talking about finger-to-finger numbers. I hope I have the exact numbers soon. And the government twice 150 euros each student. This is humiliating, and it's not normal. On the other hand, you will again, without justification, decide on the basic income of EUR 700 to religious servants. No reason. And you create an economic conflict by leaving young people where they are left to themselves. Further information on youth unemployment suggests that in Slovenia unemployment has increased from 8.2% to 13.7% in the last year. For comparison in Austria, from 9 to 9.4 and in Germany from 5.6% to 6%. With us, however, there is such a strong leap in youth unemployment. Help for those who have lost their jobs because of their atypical forms, we are also talking about the youth segment, and there is no help for them. Pika. You've gone one step further. In PKP 7, you give so-called compulsory retirement under the pretext that young people will have or receive employment. You know what it is, it's a disgusting generation of conflict between young and old. In this country, we need both experience and youth energy and momentum, but we do not need an artificial desire to create a conflict between the age of the elderly and the size of a chair and therefore young people do not get a job. It's not like that. Young people need conditions, including to develop entrepreneurial ideas, to create a family when you like to talk about demography. But my dears, by doing what you do, by giving twice 150 euros over the period, how many, ten months, and many of the students served before the crown through the student service to survive and the average student needs 500 euros to survive. And not everyone lives in families with parents who have chairs in Parliament. That's a fact. And 75 million euros for profit was just a drop in student work. I warn you of a very narrow segment of young people, but you have not dealt with them, but you have arbitrarily set 150 euros for every student without considering that every student is not equal to another student, that they have entered different situations of life, that Corona has brought them into different situations of life. No, no, no. You go a step further by creating a conflict of forced retirement and decide that instead of strengthening intergenerational solidarity and creating what we need in the community, you create a conflict between the two generations even when you decide to constantly give extras to pensioners. I do not object to being misunderstood, but consider the social groups the same, because in this country we will still need intergenerational solidarity to maintain the pension system, to maintain the health system. But if we go younger, there's so much more absurdity. To talk about how we want to become a knowledge society, but at the same time the first in Europe to shut down schools and the last in Europe to open schools because ministers cannot deal with this area. It would rather lead to the end of the NGO fund in PKP 7. That's what she does. Not with children with special needs, not by the fact that there is increasing violence in families, that there are increasing pressures of such and different because children are at home. No, no, no. Madam Minister of Education, Science and Sport brings the underdog in some obvious way, the desire to please the President of the Government in the PKP 7, and this is the reality and this is a very sad reality. But we have, yes, in addition to all these crises, the health and economic, social crisis you're creating, with some new group of young people, obviously, we have a psychological crisis, which is logical in view of the schizophrenicity of power we have, you're further deepening it, because you know, if you're 15. 12. I hope I have the right dates at all, because I do not know if you know these dates yourself, but you will note that the transition between municipalities is allowed by application. Then ten days later, 25. 12. and the app has nothing to do with it, just put the dirty growers in the car and tell them that you are going to relax in the neighboring congregation. It's schizophrenia. If 15. 12 to 23. 12. you say okay, hairdressers are open, 23. 12. Hairdressers close and then 28. 12. reopen the hairdressers after five days. It's schizophrenia. And this is schizophrenia, which is associated with all the crises. Medically, because of such schizophrenic matters, people don't trust you, economically, because you act so macho, even to entrepreneurs, and psychologically. And there's no problem with the crowd for testing, it's not a problem for clothing when people are standing in malls, but the main problem is when the Prime Minister decides on Twitter that it's necessary to punish one entrepreneur, probably because of the schizophrenicity of this power, makes a decision on his own. It wasn't the right decision, but it was the result of schizophrenia. Since you spoke for 10 days or the NIJ was in communication with skiers, what measures should be taken to enable them to carry out their economic activity. They did all the "by the book" they were asked to do. Then hop, the government decides, no, but we'll shut down the ski slopes. It's a joke. And then, when someone says that some schizophrenic thing happens to him from this schizophrenic power, but the Prime Minister decides, no, no, no, no, but we're going to punish this by the example of some medieval times when you put it on a circle of one head and put it on the market for example for everyone else, see what can happen if you oppose our decisions. Of course, on the other hand, this schizophrenic authority does exactly the opposite, does not respect its own things. We have a case of a minister who is not wearing a mask, a minister who is irrevocably resigning, still walking after this National Assembly, an uncultured minister who is taking, unlawfully, and this court also says, status. Anti-legally appoints and disposes of some of the directors of the institutions. Not so long ago were the peaks along Kolpa that I did not list you with a list of all the sins of schizophrenic power. But no, the main problem is entrepreneurs. Or someone to be punished. What's more, you're going to change the law. You know, if the government, the schizophrenic authorities, are not responsible for their actions, and so far there has been no moment in this government when someone takes responsibility for their actions, not objectively or subjectively, no responsibility, and all other citizens claim a high level of responsibility, otherwise, repression. Or we discredit everyone, every institution in this country, on Twitter. And you don't have the predictability or the logic of the measures, you don't justify them, because this government obviously doesn't need it, and it doesn't take citizens as its interlocutors, but it takes them for someone who doesn't need it, and it takes them for someone who doesn't need it, because it's the money that's being given to Janez Janša in the head of this government, the money of the government. It's not. And here we are fundamentally different in what it means to lead the country. It means running the country and dealing with all social groups and in some logical, reasonable way, and also identifying where to distribute the money we collect from the taxes in order to live well in the long term. I'm not going to be able to drop candy until the next election, so I can talk in the election campaign about who I've given how many euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list, but I can see that there is still interest in the debate, so I'm opening the list. Please sign in. The application shall be made. We have seven interviewees reported. The first one gets the word, Mr Boštjan Koražija, prepares the mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u157	Yes, Madam President, thank you very much for your word. I will start, and I will get to the debate earlier from the SDS Member, the Group of Members. In fact, I must admit, I spoke very unfairly about the Members who later came to this National Assembly. And in fact, in their parliamentary group, there are most of those who have come to this Irritant Assembly. And I don't blame them, and I respect that very much, because I know that work here is not easy, whatever anyone else thinks. And he would do well to apologize to his Members if he does not apologize to Jani Möderndorfer and others. So that's my start on this, and I expect you to just talk to each other, because I respect you, and I know it's not easy for you. Even I don't think it was easy for you to come here, but you had to get used to things, because we, who swore on June 22, 2016 and started working in this National Assembly, know what you had to put through. Mainly, this article, or the CAP, is now under way. Look, because this is the basic problem, which is constantly also in these debates, I'm going to say something that's kind of spreading out and it's kind of like a spider falling into this National Assembly. If you don't trust your people, you can't expect your people to trust you. And you can make any difference, or even if they are good, if they are bad, or if they are bad, or if they are not, and then there will certainly be this conflict between the government or authorities and between us or the people themselves. Now, as far as these articles are concerned, because you've opened up a lot of these, I would just go directly to the topic of trade and these opening and closing dates. Recently, with 72 votes in favour, we confirmed that trade is closing again on Sundays. Now, I know, then you'll start to elaborate and also explain in terms of that for others as well. I agree, everyone, everyone in this country or Slovenia would deserve a Sunday off. And the fact is that merchants and merchants, as well as all those who are employed in trades, have done or are still doing a very similar job, or not at a level such as nurses or doctors, but after exposure to the virus, I think it's very similar. And I think Mrs Magajne can confirm and also say what about the subject. Now, even when we discussed this law or even trades, opening and closing, it was often a matter of deciding who the heroes were or who the heroes and heroes were in that country. And they really are everyone. All those who helped stick to the rules that help maintain that the virus doesn't spread, that we have as few fatalities as possible, that we have as few human beings as possible, are basically heroes. And as far as young people are concerned, I don't know if you've been familiar with any recent studies, just so that even or even suicide among young people would increase by 30%, not that it's terrible, but it's really scary. And this is all related again to the fact that young people do not attend school physically, then they do not have these social contacts, they have given up, and they still give up knowledge, which is the essence of the school itself, or of the developing and knowledge societies themselves. And anyway, I know and I understand experts in this area, epidemiologists and infectologists, but given what's been leaking to the public lately, the experts have actually been right, but the government has planned or unplanned, anyway, overlooked or ignored these things. And here is one fundamental problem of this government or this authority, and this is what I'm constantly stressing and I'm going to point out until, I don't know, it's going to change, because I still believe that that can change too. As long as we have a government that works very unprofessionally or doesn't listen to the profession, or we don't get to learn about it or anything, because we're here to learn a lot about things, because we don't know everything and we don't think we know everything, it's going to be the way it is. Some kind of chaos, some kind of anarchy, but it's actually very pleasant at a time when it's just a coronavirus and today it's a terrible earthquake. I hope that there will be as few victims as possible and as little damage as possible, and I am also sending now directly, I will say, good wishes on the Croatian side, as well as on Slovenian to calm the ground. As far as the PKP of the articles is concerned, one thing is also true and we also agree in Levica that it is necessary to increase or that it is necessary to reward all those who are employed, not only medical personnel or health personnel, but also us, who say very often, this is a J group, this is a technical staff, a support staff who actually operate on the basis of not the typical profession in which they operate, but are technical staff who help and are all through. [[…]] And we have now proposed this amendment to reward them more or better, at least with, say, 85%, or I personally think, and in Levica too, we think that everyone who directly exposes themselves to the virus or who also directly acts to save the lives and health of our citizens and citizens in order to be truly properly rewarded or at least properly paid. This group, unfortunately, is often not only now, but also generally overlooked or, I will say, somehow pushed to the edge, as if it were not. But if we're paying attention here in the National Assembly, we have a lot of colleagues who are also from this J group, who are all of us through, I'll say, direct, help, or also make sure that the meetings of the National Assembly are running smoothly. Once again, as I say, I believe that this government or this authority is capable of, I will say, crossing the rubic of knowledge and letting myself be taught by professionals and also by professionals to trust. [[Incomprehensible]] Because until she trusts the profession, we're gonna have a serious problem and we're gonna have a serious problem. That's the way it is. I am also pleased here, even when a variety of information has been leaked about this professional commission, that we really have very good experts in various fields, medicine, health care and everyone else, and we can be proud of it, but let this government prove and show and let them work and advise and lead such matters when it comes to solving the health or medical crisis we are currently experiencing. I am happy and very proud that we have such a frame or that we can also trust the profession. But there's another thing that, I know, is that it's constantly opening up like some kind of cancer wound right now, that you really have to try to get the kids to school as soon as possible, because the fact is, kids are hungry for knowledge. These social contacts, as well as social skills, are also hungry. If we do anything, I will say, put some kind of obstacle on the way to knowledge, then unfortunately we cannot expect to have the kind of frame that we now have in terms of the expertise we have. But I think this can be arranged. It needs a positive look. Children are true, we have to admit, our children are brilliant. Slovenian children are brilliant. That's a fact. This has also been proved or proved in all kinds of Olympics and even as Slovenians or as a people we are very, I think that the desire for knowledge is very much looked at, and also in the world very much appreciated in all possible areas. And that is why I want and also hope that schools will be reopened as soon as possible, that they will open doors for schoolchildren, pupils and students, because this is the only thing that will really lead us to a better future, knowledge, of course social relations, or also this intergenerational dialogue that Miss Jerca mentioned earlier. That's not gonna work without it. Without intergenerational dialogue, unfortunately, this company or this country has no future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Andrej Reich, prepare Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u159	Dear Vice President! One nice good evening to all in my name. We are facing hyperinflation against coronary measures. This is how we are dealing with the seventh set of the seventh set of measures, which affects many of them under the laws and laws, which, of course, introduces great, very imprudentness into the system. I stress that such a way of adopting legislation almost in the monthly tact shows that measures are reckless, incomplete and need immediate correction. This is not good, of course, because it brings great uncertainty between those who must enforce laws and those who are entitled to these laws. If someone changes laws in the monthly rate, means that no one can even study them in such a short time, not only do they do, nor do the beneficiaries know what belongs to them, and even in this light, we are forced, because of the constant changes in the government's rulings, the last one was that last week was something still open, then three days unopened, from Sunday evening onward and another mocking comment we could read online that, if the hairdressers on the Seychelles were accidentally unable to come to work, if someone indicates to them on Sunday evening, it shows that the problems are serious and that we must also address them and, in the SAB, in this light, we are proposing an amendment to the 121st article, and we are proposing it because of the various changes of the laws, that also to athletes, sports associations and organizers of various competitions, provide and pay for the implementation of PCR tests and rapid viruses. I would like to say here that we have many competitions in Slovenia. We have before us a competition for the Golden Fox, we had a good two weeks ago, so, a good week ago, we also had a competition in Planica, in Maribor we had an effective and good competition in the “downhill” and this is a matter that is in line with the law where athletes need negative tests or testing if they want these matters to be carried out. Therefore, in the SAB, we propose to allow and ensure the testing of athletes and teams and organisers, with these tests, with the amendment to the 121st Article, and that this is, of course, the burden of the state budget. We can't afford to, I'll say, one of the disasters that happened last weekend at the Bloodbath, when the competition was allowed, and the use of cables is forbidden. If this story is to be repeated in Maribor Pohorje, it means that the contestants will “print”. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič, prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everyone. Now, even the seven anti-Korona packages, like all previous ones, bring numerous aids and compensations, measures, allowances to help our citizens and citizens, and, of course, to our economy in order to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic. Since I have very little time, I will focus only on some. Thus, the crisis allowance that will be received by employees on December's salary, all employees with a salary of up to two minimum wages, will only be paid at 200 euros or relatively less if they do not work for the whole month. Then, second of all, very important. After the new year, we will be able to allocate 1 per cent of our income to all citizens, or all those who have incomes and who devote income to companies and also to beneficiaries of donations, and this is what our Minister Kustechev proposed. But it is a lie that she also proposed the abolition of the fund. Since she wanted to help the sport under her wing, she proposed a one - percent raise in income to help sports as well. Of course, then the other part of the amendment is deleted, so the NGO Fund, so I won't do it again. EUR 50 is allocated for each child up to 18 years of age, it is said, for each child and will be paid by the end of January even when the child is added. Then 150 Euro supplement for all students, both regular and extraordinary. Of course, we could certainly give them more or we would like more, but most students are also satisfied with this, because students remain, of course they have scholarships as normal as they used to have, and they also do not have the cost of staying in student homes, so I think that this contribution, which we have also proposed in the SMC, means something to most students. Then newborns, all born this year, in 2020 and all born another year after the outbreak, will have paid a single solidarity allowance of EUR 500. What is very important, and we have also proposed in the SMC, and I have personally engaged many times very much, in that they will be employees, who are – that is, employed through public works in pension homes and in other health institutions, so that they too will receive allowances to work with covid patients. Also students and students who are now helping in these institutions. So I am very pleased and have already proposed these things in previous PKP packages, and I am really glad that this has now become part of the action. Furthermore, the healthcare allowance is therefore extended to group J, says those who are employed in health institutions and do not know whether they are cleaning or maintaining, wigs, administrative staff. However, I also pointed out at the Committee's deliberations on the previous package that we should not forget about those cleaners or I don't know, wigs or anyone who works through external operators, because hospitals have a lot of this staff employed through external operators, so that this is now included in this package and will also be real cleaners who are employed through external operators in these health or social security institutions. [[sign for the end of the debate]] also receive the additive. I am also very pleased with this higher allowance for the care of the child, which will not be paid once a month, but every month at the time of the epidemic, which will raise the child's allowance every month by EUR 100. The news is also a temporary financial compensation for the unemployed. This means to all those who will end their working relationship at the time of the epidemic and will not have [[sign for the end of the debate]] the classic conditions for monetary compensation, so they will be paid for the time of the epidemic by this temporary monetary compensation. Thank you very much. My time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I hope not. [[Laughing in the hall]] The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We are still in the first article of the first amendment - I think in the first amendment to Article 1. [[…]] I'll discuss it a little wider. But I'm going to start like this; the second wave of the crown of the virus escaped this government from control. We don't even need to talk about this anymore. Despite the disease, or despite the total “lockdown” we still have between 25 and 35% a day, which is an extremely, extremely large proportion. But we have almost as many dead as we have already told about one bus people. This is frightening data and, as it appears, we will continue to have such data. On the other hand, we have desperate innkeepers who have lost their income, despite wanting to help them with the PKPs, but the debts remain, the loans remain. And as the minister said today that they are cited, I think that special loans are available in the PKP – yes, great, fine, but the loans still need to be paid and paid. When they get paid, they just keep asking themselves that question. Then we have a service activity here that works today, and it doesn't work tomorrow. They're all confused. I also mean hair salons. If we want the hair salons to work 1 in 1, we need to organize the work and it is not possible to organize it within a few hours. In the end, let me just say, not in the end, at this very beginning, let me say that independent entrepreneurs want to work and just work. Let them do their work. They will take into account all the measures protected that are necessary and I believe that the users of these services will also. And if I touch this law, the PKP 7, of which today is the subject, the Legislative and Legal Service has made it clear that the law is unconsistent, unclear and actually causes so much confusion that everyone who wants to use it, that is my opinion, will have to hire lawyers in order to know how to obtain rights at all or to consult with the relevant experts in the ministries that have prepared these laws. I have already pointed out this in the previous CAP, but this lack of clarity is complemented by this CAP 7. And what's worse? The ruling coalition has tabled amendments at the parent working body's own meeting, which have complemented this confusion and, unfortunately, are reintroduced even by unnecessary and unnecessary revenge. I'm going to touch this, I'm going to say, the horrors that happened yesterday on the parent's working body when the government coalition last minute tabled an amendment to article 89a and introduced an unconstitutional ban on aid for those who violated government decisions. And that's only because Vladi resisted the director of the ski resort. Regrettably, the government today has removed some sublime content that was originally included, but unfortunately it happened to members of the coalition this revenge move yesterday. It saddens me that this has happened, and I hope that they will overlook and begin to think more broadly. There has been much said today, so I will touch only two content, first of all the solidarity allowance for pensioners. Many pensioners receive extremely low pensions that do not reach minimum living costs and these solidarity allowances will greatly help them. But in doing so, I would like to highlight the case of the pensioners, or just one pensioner who wrote to me right now: “The pensioners are expected to receive Corona’s supplement again. I'm not getting it because I have 750 euros in pension. This money, however, survives two, since the wife has no income. But I have more friends who are both retired, and they will get an allowance, because they both have a pension of 600 euros, so if I say so, they have a total income of 1,000 200 euros. So, friends have a thousand 200 euros a month, of course plus this supplement, which you will receive in a specific case under this Article 460 euros, and my wife and I will still be left with only 750 euros without a supplement." At this point, I wonder when my colleague asked the President of the Government who had been released by name and surname to say which person had received nothing. This family, this lady, who is neither recipient nor recipient of social assistance nor pension, the lady cannot work, she is not 65 years old, she has lost everything. She hasn't even received the euro in all this time. He can't even buy vitamin D, which is essential even if it's socially endangered. We're in these groups or you've forgotten. And then I'd touch the medical, graduate nurses. Valuation of this. In Article 38 of the Health Activity Act, which we amended in 2017, we have established competences and, given that we have competences in Article 20 of this CAP, I am interested in the following. Will this 20th article be permanent? And I don't want it to sound misunderstood. I have absolutely no problem with the fact that certain health care technicians have acquired valuable experiences that help them in their work and are therefore competent. But in doing so, I would like to point out that the job will be able to obtain an education, and then all of the health schools in Slovenia can be phased out peacefully. It will not be theirs, because their knowledge will not be necessary, nor will their mid-term nurses, but medical techniques will learn everything through practice. Personally, I believe that the study of health care is very complex. It combines a high or wide range of knowledge, from technical and detailed expertise, medical skills, as well as psychology and sociology, and knowledge of general body and spirit health, which, of course, also adequately complements the work of the doctor himself in works that can only be covered by a graduate nurse and by no means a medical technician with difficulty and knowledge of finished secondary school. Training, challenging tasks and experience of mid-term nurses are not at all obvious and are absolutely true gold, but only the technical knowledge and training of certain medical procedures, interventions, cannot be a recognition of a higher level of education. In doing so, I would like to quote you, one quote from the lady who said: “If this educational scale is possible to climb in this way, I would like to do it myself. As a high school graduate with selection courses, with extensive knowledge of geography and history, which, while travelling and working with foreigners and many tourists, has still been rich for over 20 years, my high school education is also equivalent to the education of professors of history and geography, as it has been since the graduation of the Faculty of Philosophy." I therefore ask the Government, Minister, whether it is therefore a sustainable action on this issue. And if you want Pa, let me finish. [[…]] Certainly, the CAP7 brings some really positive solutions that are worthy of support. First of all, it's to point out those we've already warned about months ago in the opposition. The principle of proportionate recovery of aid for companies affected by less than the initial assessment and the possibility of being remunerated, the extension of measures for a few months, unfortunately, is still only one month after a month, rather than setting a clear and realistic timeframe for people and the economy. Of course, this is something to be commended for. It is a pity, however, that the government has not taken these proposals into account before, in order to tell employers that there is water in the pool. Too bad we didn't pour water before, maybe it'd be lost any, I mean, any job less. I must also point out today's contact I've received. This is the Thesno zone in which they point out that in the Maribor area [[sign for the end of the debate]] two companies will close or forgive, and a number of jobs could be saved, including a number of mental distresses, perhaps some death from despair if measures were prepared in time and lasted longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The word has Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Every passing of intervention laws to help limit the consequences of the epidemic seems to me that my opposition colleagues are more impatient. This time I can say that yesterday, and I'm listening to yours today, I can also say religious intolerance, and I think it's extremely inappropriate for you to try, I don't know, to gain election points or throw a rifle into the corn to find this real bow. I really don't know. I don't know why it's necessary for you to be here, I would say, we bet, we insult each other, we're also assessing who in this country is capable, who can't, who can't, who can't, I don't know, some are experts in the field, and they didn't take the story well, so we're just talking about, it's like 11 o'clock about things that aren't actually half things in the PKP and you've drawn them out. Why don't you go to law school and discuss things that are in marriage? Of course, the law of the PKP7 brings many things to facilitate and maintain jobs, to prevent some abuse in obtaining State incentives for investment, to help the weakest, to children, and in particular to say that it also provides assistance to those most exposed in this country to healthcare workers. For public workers, 65% of the supplement, an additional 30% for work in the red zone. And another 30% for work with another employer, it is said that if a nurse or doctor goes to help in the nursing home an additional 30% of the aid. Total numerically, if we add it up, it's 125%. Of course, this is financially different because percentages are being upgraded on the basis. No, they don't hold your theory and your words except that they're very offensive. Deplorable. Among the beneficiaries of free living with a sick child in the hospital and compensation is added the parents of persons with statutory status governing the social inclusion of persons with disabilities regardless of age, and also on the proposal of New Slovenia, something because we follow family policy. Although I must say that I am very offended by my colleagues from the Left who said that they are encouraged to give birth more. I have five children, five children, I'm proud and I don't see anything wrong with that. I don't know what you see wrong with that. I'm offended, I have to say. What is wrong with being able to provide a solidarity allowance for pensioners who have up to EUR 714? EUR 300 if they receive a pension of EUR 510. You know what it's like to spend 510 euros a month? What's the harm if a pensioner receives EUR 230 in addition, if he has a pension of between EUR 510 and EUR 612? And 130 euros from 612.01 to 714 euros? This brings this PKP7. And once again, every PKP makes you more impatient, which is not good. A single solidarity allowance shall be received by one of the parents or foster parents of EUR 50 per child up to the age of 18. By the end of the epidemic, the amount of the allowance for large families is increasing, namely EUR 100 for a family with three children and EUR 200 for a family with four or more children. That's help. A single solidarity allowance of 150 euros is paid to regular and extraordinary students with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia who are educated in the study year 2020/2021 through publicly valid study programmes in the Republic of Slovenia. It was said to be charity. How underestimating. But I tell you, I get, like you, e-mails, thanks, too. Families with a higher number of children also have up to three children who are students. They wrote thanks, it means a lot to us, we're not overlooked. How to destroy everything. A single solidarity allowance is also granted to older than 65 years of age who are carriers or members of farms and who have not received a solidarity allowance for pensioners and their taxable income does not exceed 591.2 euros. Yeah, they're the ones who got state pensions back in 2011. That's them. “Institutional protection operators shall be reimbursed from the declaration of the epidemic until 31 December 2021 from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the installation of those who work with them and for working with residents in a grey and rare zone and, as a result, for the risk of spreading the infection, need separate accommodation.” It is said that the measures are directed at those who really need it and who save lives and for whom I will also say they also sacrifice their own exposure and their own lives. What I think is extremely important, and not said today, is also a temporary measure in the field of protection and rescue in this PKP-7. Therefore, there is no need for us to be impatient with one another. “For voluntary fire companies, compensation for the purchase of personal protective equipment, joint equipment and fire-fighting vehicles shall be granted in 2020 due to the loss of revenue.” First category 2 000 euro for firefighters. For the firefighters' society of the second category, EUR 3,000. For the third category firefighter society, EUR 3 000 500. And for category four, it's 4,000 euros. For the fifth category, €4,000,500. In addition, voluntary firefighting companies with the status of a central unit in the local community are provided with thousands of euros. That is to say, even those who help with solidarity, humanitarianism, are also helped by them. However, I must also point out that it is also being tackled in the field of agriculture. I have received a lot of questions from the e-mail about what has now been predicted by considering the cadastral income already in PKP-1 or PKP-2 to be taken into account. Let me say that for the 2020 forest road maintenance fee, forest owners, who are natural persons, account is taken of the cadastral revenues of forest land of 50 %, as determined by the cadastral income rules on 30 June 2020. It is said that these things are also being regulated and that these things are also being realized. It seems important to me that we are all aware that we are in difficult times and that these difficult times also require perhaps a little more self-discipline, a little more patience, and above all a great deal of empathy. I didn't feel her here today in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u167	Mr President! Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, including those who watch me from the office on TV, because unfortunately my colleagues and colleagues are very few in the hall. Look, let's move on. Covid-19 has changed our lives a lot more than we can admit. If that was not enough today, we also felt an earthquake in the National Assembly, and I am very happy to say that Slovenia, the Slovenian government has offered assistance to the Republic of Croatia at this time. At such times, it is crucial that they can rely on the quick help of their neighbors. No one should be left alone in distress. With the thought of praying, we are all together with the inhabitants of the affected cities. I hope something like this doesn't happen again. Look, we're going to today's point. I'm going to discuss myself a little bit more broadly than usual. But I have to say so. Today, many of my colleagues have criticised the PKP's actions. I am very proud and grateful that the government has been able to adapt to the market so quickly. But I would also warn my colleagues if, you know, I wanted to tell you how the structure of the public administration works. We have 95% of the people in the ministries who don't change, even more than 95, change power, and these people are important building blocks of writing these laws, and basically when they say, in their own words, Shinfasty bad marriages, in fact, the Shinfates of these good workers, experts in ministries who once want to be the bosses themselves. So I would really like you to step back one step, think twice, and even what encouraging word you sometimes say. As far as numbers are concerned, I must say they are not friendly, they are large, but look, they also abroad recognise that we have been very successful in the area of economic action, social rights. We're even uplifted by different houses. That's what they say. We don't do everything wrong. I don't think our actions are perfect because none of them are, but they're not that bad. I think they're going in the right direction, and they're referring to the situation that is currently on the market. And this situation is changing rapidly, and if necessary, we will also respond quickly to these measures. That's what I'm going to say, sometimes, at least in my behavior, which I've been doing abroad for a long time, sometimes the opposition has been fighting for domination if the government has been working badly. Now I think that in Slovenia the gods have fallen on their heads and the opposition is fighting for domination because they fear that the coalition is working too well. Why do I say that? This coalition didn't have one day of peace, one day, not to talk about hundreds of days. One day of peace. That is why I say that the gods have fallen on their heads here in Slovenia. Look, I know times aren't pink, demonstrations are happening in other countries, we read everything in foreign newspapers, but let me tell you something else about what other countries are different from Slovenia. In another newspaper, I did not read in one of the online forums to participate in demonstrations by foreign politicians. This can only happen in Slovenia. I didn't see that. Because I'm going to tell you something, if I quote Machiavelli a little bit, wars start whenever you want. You can start a war real quick, but this war doesn't end the way you want it to. This war ends when it says it's over. Here in this hall we were greatly affected by the harsh words, the schizophrenia of power, etc. For me, Shinophrene is the fact that the president of the government is telling him to step down. But look, we've been talking for more than seven hours now, and we haven't even come to the amendments yet. I'd like to point out three things here that seem very important to me. First of all, I'd like to point out the students. I myself have worked in the student organisations and I think that an allowance of 150 euros for a student is a good thing. I'm not saying he's going to solve all the problems, but this is a start to solving the problem. I am also aware and I hope that the Minister of Education here will summarise my appeals to the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for student issues as soon as possible and that dialogue will begin there. I welcome, and also upon the proposal of New Slovenia, an extraordinary measure was introduced at the time of the birth of the child. Each child will receive €500 assistance from parents for a child with permanent residence in Slovenia, born on the day of the entry into force of this law up to one year after the end of the epidemic, and for a twin, a thousand euros. Students and young people are very flexible. I hope that from this pandemic, from this crisis they will quickly swim and move on. I'd also like to point out firefighters. Among the types of measures that we are also voluntary firefighters' societies. [[Incomprehensible]] We have not gone a long way here, we have considered these measures, we have also announced them, written them down, and we will implement them in connection with various firefighter organisations. Thus, in 2020 we hope to provide compensation for the loss of funds for the purpose of purchasing personal protection, common equipment and fire vehicles, and this, dear colleagues and colleagues, will be obtained by fire companies. Now, to the most, the one that stings me the most, right? Retirement. One of my colleagues, just to read, because I just wrote down this phrase: "forced retirement", "forced retirement". You see, here I have a proposal from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, addressed a letter to the Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in support of Article 28 – support. [[…]] I didn't see forced retirement here in one word. Do you know now I will tell you something else, so-called your compulsory retirement. [[…]] Here's where the young, the young, the ones you said they couldn't do anything about it will get the most. If we look at the numbers, we have, our proposal will kind of, roughly, 12 thousand people, and 500 people will, but if we look at just the public sector, that's 4 thousand 505 people in the public sector. So, work, has the conditions for retirement, and in addition to work, they receive another 40% pension, pensions and these [[?]] People could give space to young people, too. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I remember a few years ago, in this room, do you know what it was like for a diplomat to have to retire as soon as possible, what all the laws that were passed here. No one said anything that time. We'll have him retired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Elena Zavadlav Usaj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. Again today, I will not debate, given that the debate has been going on for some time now, but I would like to explain what has been exposed several times today in the debate of Members and it is obviously not understood whether some have been taught enough to know how the church is financed. All of these, particularly by members of the opposition, are seriously disturbed by this measure, a temporary measure, for religious servants and in order to close the debate once, why this measure was among the measures in the CAP7, I will tell you the reason, namely, the church, although, in the first place only, I have to say that the measure concerns all religious servants of the registered church or other religious communities, which means all religious communities registered in Slovenia. Let us go to the church, which is actually the most grieving, namely, this church is financed by voluntary gifts of believers, receipts from church property, direct and indirect assistance from the State, direct state funding of church activities in state institutions, funds obtained through various public invitations and concessions or dedicated grants for cultural monuments. In Slovenia, priests do not enter into employment contracts or receive salaries. Their incomes are mostly linked to bows. According to the classification of professions, they are classified as a group of professions and must therefore be insured. So the church is financed mainly by voluntary gifts and income from property. Only a small part of the social security of priests and monks is financed by the State on the lowest pension basis. Which means the priests are solely bound to contributions from the bows. And since the government has closed the churches with its actions due to the epidemic, the clergy are also among those groups that have been deprived of their primary income in some way and are therefore also in the PKP-7 measures. But you must be aware that this part of the benefits are also, this part of the benefits is also intended for the maintenance of the church, but the churches are our cultural heritage and it grieves me that we do not recognize this and recognize the foundations of our ancestors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there's still interest. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is by Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u171	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues, especially to the finance minister who has been listening to us all day long and also answers certain questions in some way. Now, if I were to evaluate matters, I would actually like to assess very objectively. And in any case, I cannot and cannot say that during this period the severe crowns of the crisis have not been taken appropriate measures. There may have been some of these that may not be part of the intervention measures, but we have helped both the economy and citizens in some way with these measures. I'm more concerned about one other thing. This is that in this crown of crisis we are not sufficiently capable within this Chamber to actually step together and try to take this matter as successfully as possible to the goal. And if we did, believe me, we'd have a very different picture, a medical picture that we have right now. People expect politics to be united in particular. Of course, the profession is proposing measures and politicians are taking them. And if that were so, as I said earlier, it would be quite different and, of course, the citizens would also monitor these measures that have been taken. Now that he sees how we are separated, he thinks — what they will show us if they do not know how to walk on it. That's a key question. And why, in fact, we were so successful in overcoming this spring crisis — first because we were afraid of an unknown virus and second thing was because we were disciplined. This first and second measures have not been implemented in this autumn crisis, and therefore we have an epidemiological picture of what we have. See if doctors estimate that citizens and citizens do not respect basic measures, this tells us something. And, of course, under no circumstances should we go all the way to the government. Together, we are the ones who should actually create an "ambient" that would have a positive impact on our citizens and citizens. Maybe just a few words about so-called forced retirement. Given that I am a member of the Group of Members, which has a pensioner in my address, I will say as I have told Minister King Brickler of the King today. We simply cannot take this measure or vote for it, whether we are in coalition or in opposition, because we simply have too many calls of encouragement from pensioners that this measure is not an appropriate measure. However, if you ask me, personally I could say something else, but in this case I am a member of the Group of Members and I speak on behalf of this Group of Members. And as long as we go into a systemic change in this matter in the future, we will systematically change the law, and then we can talk about this with some compromise that we will find together. In this case, of course, we cannot support this. But now, of course, I have something positive to say because I was talking about pensioners. And also what I'm going to say in a very short time, because there's been so many hours of this debate in the Chamber, I'm going to say this. We cannot pass the pension allowance of the crisis. This morning, when I went to Ljubljana from my Prlecia, I received a call from one of the pensioners who said to me from the occasion: listen, Member, why don't we get this allowance as well. I said you'll get it, today we accept it and it'll come in January. I said a little longer, with a pension in January, and the marriage is a little different. And of course he was happy to thank me, and of course he also wished me a pleasant holiday, as I did him, and of course he was very pleased to receive it. But this is the second time this year. And I must say that this is some achievement that we, in our parliamentary group, have formed together with the coalition partners we have so far. And there's something else I have to say. That's not in that context, but I have to say. Today, pensioners received a harmonised pension of 2% higher than they had before. Someone thinks this 2% isn't some kind of sum. That sounds like a little 2%. We'd be talking about maybe 20% of our time, but it's different times now, but if you want to say that this pension is going to be 2% higher this month, and that next year it's going to be 2% higher every month, and then it's going to be coordinated, and then there's going to be the next reconciliation, and the next, you know, and then it's not what some people think. However, I am very proud of the fact that we have managed to reconcile pensions with two percent, not with 6.5%, as proposed by the SAB and as adopted. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Six and a half euros, I'm sorry. This measure will, of course, require EUR 9.3 million per month, which is in December and 115 million per year. It is also right for our pensioners to hear this information. And one more thing. I've been recalculating what these alignments mean. And I have come to the conclusion that, in 14 good months, we have agreed on pensions, here I am still counting on the coordination that will take place in January next year by 9.2%. You know, 9.2 in one month and the next, and in one year, two years, and ten years, that means something. And one more thing, I would like to touch myself, because in the past I have also been actively involved in these, I will tell voluntary organisations or voluntary firefighters organization, in the firefighters. And I must say that I am very pleased with this measure, because fire companies are in a very difficult position. You know, the fire department not only has a tithe coming in, but it's got uniforms, but firefighters need to do a lot in one year. From training, equipment acquisition, equipment maintenance, tools and so on, and, of course, they need certain resources. This year, I must say, they can't even do the usual thing, the one that's usually been in firefighting all these years, that they're collecting equipment with calendars, they can't do it this year. Because simply an epidemiological picture prohibits this and, of course, all the measures involved. Well, I have now counted some positive matters, but if each one of us were to tell another one of us, and perhaps even the opposition so far, perhaps we could send something positive to the public about what we are doing in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The word has Alexander Reberšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. The family is the foundation on which our society is built. And if this foundation is strong enough, the Slovenian society and the Slovenian economy will be able to operate in the long term. This is also very good for the Vice-President of this government, Matthew Tonin, who proposed 500 euros of assistance to newborns since 1 January of this year, and who will be born one year after the end of the epidemic. I'd like to point out to the pensioners, those who receive the lowest pensions. We have earmarked 67 million for this, all of which will be paid in early January, 130, 230 and 300 euros for our pensioners who receive the lowest pensions. This raises me the question of when our pensioners have received as many supplements as they have received under this government, I wonder. As a volunteer firefighter, I am extremely glad to see that I have greatly cheered up to help voluntary firefighters because of the loss of income we have received through the traditional wear of calendars at the end of the year. So the fire companies will receive between 2 000 and 4 000 euros at their expense, depending also on which category the society is, and the central units will receive an additional thousand euros. You can see here that our Secretary of State is our Secretary of State, Matthew Tonin, and Damian Jaklin are both firefighters and have a hearing for firefighters. What I would like to say today is that I am extremely happy and very proud that my amendment, the amendment of New Slovenia, has been adopted with which the parents of children with special needs for the epidemic from October 2020 until the end of the epidemic will receive a 100-euro higher allowance for care. It should be borne in mind that due to the epidemic, co-vid families are children with special needs to be in great distress over the closure of schools, kindergartens and institutions. As a result, these children did not visit these institutions, were not provided with food in these institutions, and protections were thus caused by higher costs in the family circle, in particular the additional costs for a large number of them unimaginable. It is important to point out, however, that most of these families live on very low incomes, as they are largely compensated for their lost income of EUR 588 per month. Even more difficult is the fact that there is a single - parent family here, and many have lost their jobs in these times. The amendment proposed by Nova Slovenije and approved on the Finance Committee yesterday thus grants families an exceptional allowance for care and is recognised by both. Both those receiving a low supplement and those receiving a high supplement. I am very proud and very glad that we have not forgotten those with special needs. We must continue at the pace of the pace. But I'd like to talk to you about one more thing, and let's get some clean wine in here. Some of you who are currently sitting in this hall, as well as those who monitor all this through television sets, think that this session would last all day if all of this circus were not to be broadcast live by RTV cameras. The fact is, if there was no transfer, I am sure that this meeting would last for one single hour. That's a fact. Now, as far as the opposition's amendments are concerned. The amendments are popular, the amendments are beautiful and, above all, all amendments are populist. But let me tell you something else. Every time you table an amendment, let me tell you who we're taking and who we're giving it to. I understand that some of you on the left take state money as a bag of bottomless money from which you can take it at your own request. But all those who live in reality realize that this is not the case. These suggestions remind me of one quote from the last celebration, the state celebration that Margaret Thatcher said socialism was working so long as foreign money was not running out. And when you share that money, he'd be out tomorrow. I'm sure of that. Members of the opposition here are quite clever to know exactly that there is very little chance that your amendments will receive sufficient support. But you don't even care, that's not your goal at all. Your goal is to carry out populism, the circus, to be liked by the viewers who are watching this now. Let us ask ourselves how many opposition amendments the previous government has taken into account in the proposals under the previous mandate. You tell your attitude to your citizens when you're in power, when you give, and that's why you take responsibility. Your suggestions are pure populism, and for your suggestions you will not take responsibility, but someone else will. Today I would give everything to our citizens, I don't know what you remember, some free wine, free transportation, free plates, free lunches to all the students, everything that is populism to melt, what you would give for the pensioners, for the students, for those who are under-average wages, and I don't know what else. What were you doing when you were in power 10 months ago? You already had the poor, they were already among us, and you could have helped them by then. But you're picking up today when this coalition is helping them. And if an average citizen were to listen to you, I'd say that poverty and that all the problems in this country were created on March 13th this year, but left-wings have been in power for the last 90's for 14 years. That's a fact. And then it's all our fault. Something's not going very well together. I'm aware that we can't help everyone, that there is a lot of help to be done in this country. It is true, however, that I myself am very surprised, and I want to help those who have been neglected for years and years, our weakest citizens as much as possible. But it is not easy for all at once, and that is why I also support this government, which is taking important steps in a number of areas. Let me only remind parents that they can stay at the hospital with their child, which we proposed in the previous PKP in Novi Slovenija, in PKP-6. It is a shame that parents who had a child over the age of 6 had to pay for this. We arranged it then, introduced the supplement and the parents of the children can stay free until the child is 14 years old. What I would now point out is that we have arranged this with PKP-7 for people with special needs, but without age restrictions. Actions count, step by step. Among other things, when this coalition saves the country and helps those affected by the epidemic, in the opposition you will spread some religious intolerance, of course in the opposition you will be happy to talk about the parishioners because that is what your electorate likes to hear. And you have to say that. I just understand because your constituents like to hear it. Above all, this is what you like to say to those who are below the threshold of entry into parliament. That's perfectly clear to me. But what's interesting is that you're the one who hasn't been elected to the National Assembly at all. Anything for cheap votes and cheap populism. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, you've been in power, you've been fighting with each other, but now you want to rule again. Just don't get that 46 vote. Thank God. Allow us to rule, to work to do those things, to help those people who have been waiting for years and years and being overheard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Replica mags. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Reberšek! You're full of mouths about kids with special needs. First, you have abolished the right to education for no reason, and then you give them 100 euros in change back. You deprived them of the right to education, development and socialization. And your mouth is full of populism, lies and deception. In Maribor, I have a primary school for children with special needs. It is attended by children from the 27th congregations. Polo is funded only by the Municipality of Maribor. How many mayors do you have? Why don't they contribute to the development and maintenance of this school? Your mouth is full of populism. You deny the right to people who have paid a fair price and bought it to get the untapped part and claim it is populism. If someone pays something, then they have to use it. If he doesn't have that option, he'll have to pay him back a proportional portion of the money. You talk a lot about when you're in government, that you can rule, that you have to make decisions. When you were in the opposition, you lied to your constituents many times, you led them to a demonstration, on the third development axis, today you have a minister, you have a director, you have a director, you have two prominent members, you have no demonstrations. More than that, I've repeatedly asked you to show whose land you're selling. You sell whose land in the National Assembly. There was no answer. You're talking about populism. Who's lying, who's stealing? You're talking about the barons, no shame, I'm inviting you to look your voters in the Vransky area in the eye and tell them why you're not demonstrating today in front of the Ministry, in front of Dars. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u176	Mr. Reich's replica is nothing more than what you just had. This is a debate. And I'm giving you a warning. Now I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I see you're still interested, so I'm asking you to apply. Franz Jursha has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u177	Vice President, thank you again very much. Once again, of course, I am the greeting that you are in the hall. I'm not going to have any longer discussions, but I want to say something to Andrei Reich. Andrei, if you want me, listen to me. All primary schools are funded by the following: the country pays teachers in the basic fields and the municipality provides premises. Of course it also co-financed, the country also partly co-financed investments in primary schools, so that this information does not hold that you said that it was only the Municipality of Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u178	Replica mags. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u179	So Comrade Jurš cannot know, it is a school with special needs that every congregation cannot have, but because of the specifics of the staff and the space. And the fact is that the founder of this school is the Municipality of Maribor and is visited by children from the 27th congregations because they simply do not have other congregations. And when he speaks of his support for these children, he should also ensure that all of these congregations care for these children in a balanced way.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Comrade Jurš, the replica had a colleague in front of you, so you can't have the replica anymore. However, within a few seconds, you may apply for the debate. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I see the debate is already quite heated. I am surprised at the views of some Members. I'm not sure if they pay you so well for these views or if you really mean it. The government should solve the crisis, which is a health crisis and today we are witnessing and increasingly, completely other measures that do not have any, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Instead of dealing with health care, we are dealing with the Law on Courts, the Law on Non-Governmental Organizations, the Law on Religious Freedom and other blah blah blah blah blah blah blah I've heard the praises of the employers, and I'm going to ask you, and I hope the minister will answer me - who is the employer to the self-employed? That's what I'm really interested in, because, from SMC, the Member of Parliament was so celebrated that without an employer, there's no work. Who's the employer to the self-employed? I wonder who the employer is to religious employees? I'm asking for an answer. An employee goes to work, gets paid and pays his taxes. In particular, where they go to work, who their employer is, how much tax they pay from this service, because then the country will pay them back for their income loss, in the CAP anti-korona measures. In short, as evidenced by the loss of income, I am particularly interested in what they receive, for the first time, the equalization with self-employed people in culture, secondly, the excess of this, as the Minister for Culture, Credit or Privilege says. The privilege of a self-employed person in culture is that, for the first time, he went out for something artistic, but not everyone, first of all, has to make an admission, he has to have a lot of talent, then he has to do a lot of work and then he has to prove five years of excellence and then, if he doesn't get over the price of 20 thousand euros gross per year, he gets approved by the ministry or the commission to grant him the status of self-employed in culture and he pays taxes on the basis of these contracts and, of course, during Covid's performance activities, the government has prohibited him from doing so. The government forbade me to work. And this resulted in a loss of income, a complete one. And 700 euros for a self-employed person in culture is not the same as a self-employed person or, what, a religious employee. How much does someone who's a religious employee pay rent? A young colleague from New Slovenia will say that this is religious intolerance. No, we're talking about equality before the law. How much rent does he pay? How much does the tax pay? A self-employed person in a culture must pay from this fee a stay, a costume, a ride to work, a rent for his apartment, a chicken in the middle of winter and you compare it, you're equal to something that can't be given to a common denominator. More, you say, we'll pay them 400 euros a month. You pay 402 euros to self-employed people in culture, not to all – two thirds of the self-employed in culture, because not everyone meets the conditions, because you ask for this measure and then on the basis of evidence, the Commission approves it. How many religious officials have applied for this condition? Please have a concrete answer. On the basis of which evidence you gave them permission. Now, the self-employed in culture get contributions from the minimum wage. Do you know how much pension is for the full-time self-employed in culture? Someone you know as a big star? I'm sure the Minister of Finance will know. 340 euros for a full pension. Yes, fellow Members and Members. For 40 years he's been working in culture, writing books, directing and all. But you've given religious employees contributions from the average salary, not the minimum wage, it says, 600. And you say, "Where are you going to take the opposition populist, when you propose a measure, tell me where you're going to take it." Where, in particular, the Minister of Finance will take money that you will donate to religious and civil servants because employees are going to work. A servant. The servant is not paid, the servant serves, and therefore receives different rewards, not financial ones. Now, I will tell you that these measures have nothing to do with the crown and with the measures that should be taken. We have a whole bunch of young people who don't get a job, who are forced to go to S.P., and they don't get any compensation, highly educated people. We have students who went to school themselves, but you give everyone 150 euros just so it doesn't matter if a rich parent's child has 150 Euros for the pocket, the poor parent's child, and he's working to study, so he can't cover anything. Disable his future, his education, his persistence, everything with a balance sheet, because you don't think it's important. So let's put 150 euros against 700 or let's be honest, a thousand 200, a thousand 300 euros for religious officials. And 150 euros for our study children. Tell me how honest you are in your intentions. Now, the patient’s covid allowance remains at a low 30% level, and you boast that you’re giving them supplements, even though it should be at least 65% or 100 percent, as in the first wave. It would be fair and fair. Their salaries, which work with covid patients, are not yet as high as those given to religious servants who do not go to work. I beg you, is this equality before the law? And that's constitutional, and that's fair? While the organization in which they are employed is, for example, one of the richest organizations in the world that does not pay real estate taxes through the forests that we have given them, we know well that they were sold 150 years before World War II. And we gave them and built them roads and forest trains and everything worth millions and we give them compensation, but look, this caste is still as important as the elective body. For they always say, "You love John Janša, for you are in sin, and of course you know who will give them the most." It's not fair, it's not fair, and I'm going to repeat it a hundred times, because this government has suffered. And she went to the media, she went to culture, she went to everything in the country that was free-minded and honest. Of course, you say that you will justly punish those who do not respect decrees. I listened to a close discussion from the very beginning, and yes, the Minister said to the Institute of Proportionality. The proportionality institute is if someone eats a burek on the road and gets 400 euros in fines and then does not get a refund in the antikoronic package. Is that proportional? I don't know. I don't understand. I really don't understand. But I do know that law does not allow double punishment for the same offence. So if you charge them 400 euros for a poor burrito eaten, which we haven't figured out over the mask how to eat, you can't punish him again so you don't give him a fair anti-korona compensation. And you know, after nine, ten months of the epidemic, you remembered that maybe doctors don't need to know so much Slovenian and that they can still work. Thank you, but it's very late. Retirement, you say, is not compulsory. You're creating a conflict between young and old. It is a unilateral measure and no one asks an employee anything. All right, if you hire him, but hire him full-time, so that the pensioner gets a normal pension, because he's not fired for his own fault. Foreign students are in a worse position than Slovenian students. They study here, it would be fair for them to get this measure. In short, promotion of fertility. Very nice, you'll give everyone 500 euros, born in 2020. Okay. It's nice that children are born, but birth alone is not a perspective in the country we live in. We have perspective on those who have children who want jobs that want access to housing that want equal treatment. Or they should all go to religious servants and live quietly for the rest of their days. Let the monasteries fill up, have full stomachs and will be warm, because our citizens cannot pay rent, the self-employed in culture cannot pay rent with what our government generously gives them. And, you know, these PKPs, we get one every month. This means that you are completely without a compass, that you do not really know how to systematically solve problems and solve them where you do not behave. It's just rude what you're doing. And, you know, the fact that we have to put the STA law in the PKP, and then your Janša tweets again that it's not what it is if one coalition party supports it. The fact that we have to solve the film through the PKP is terrifying things, totally terrifying. And I will return because I have only a few minutes left, for self-employed people in culture, the amount of contributions is defined in Article 83 of the ZUJIK. And let's be honest, and let's be civil, and stick to the laws and the constitution, right? For religious servants, however, it is defined in Article 27 of the Law on Religious Freedom. Freedom has nothing to do with you financing them. And they may apply for the right to grant state financial assistance from the State budget to cover social security contributions in the amount of the following types of social security contributions from the base at least 48 % of the average wage for the preceding month. Average again, while self-employed people go from base. So I'm really curious, Minister, on what you're doing these unconstitutional measures and how you're going to explain to people how many of our children live from 150 euros a month, students and so on, and religious employees from 1,400, 1600. Why, why are you funding your electoral base? It's not fair, because it's our money together and we should be solving a common problem, a common problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u182	Thank you very much for this debate. Now, colleague Violeta Tomić, it would be time for you to know that the Constitutional Court, not the Members of the debate, is deciding on unconstitutionality. There. Secondly, with regard to self-employed people in culture, some have self-employed people in culture through the way they account for and record incomes also higher wages than Members and Revenues. By talking in general about self-employed people in culture, I find it irresponsible, irresponsible. And much more was said in this debate of yours, which is not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u183	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u184	Procedurally Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u185	The President has no right in the Rules of Procedure to debate with me here and to deny my debate. I know very well how self-employed people in culture work [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u186	My colleague, it's procedural. However, the President shall always have the right to intervene in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u187	You don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u188	I could have interrupted you sooner, but I didn't, but I warned you to speak inaccuracies and in general. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u189	Mr. Jože Tanko, you are not a debater in this session, and what you are doing is unworthy. And unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u190	Deserving. I'm obliged to point out the uncultured outbursts and incorrect claims you're making.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u191	Were you self-employed in culture for 15 years or was it me, Mr. Jože Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u192	Madam, please choose a procedural proposal, not a debate and controversy with the President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u193	Answer me. Were you self-employed in culture?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u194	You don't have to. You had time to discuss [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u195	You've been a privileged Member all these years.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u196	I'm giving you a warning because you're in violation of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u197	Thank you for your reminder. I'm proud to accept it. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u198	Here you go. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, please, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u199	Thank you very much, colleague and, of course, Vice-President of the National Assembly. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure which you referred to and have even waved with the College of the President of the National Assembly, and have said the following sentence that you will only follow the Rules of Procedure, I must also find out and, of course, propose to you in accordance with the procedure and in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Of course, the President may intervene at any time in the debate, he does, but he cannot comment on the debate. The fact that you find out what is true and what is not, you have as a Member under the rules of procedure, as we all do together, you can apply to the debate and debate, and then you tell your colleague Violet Tomić all of this and more, of course, what you want, but not that you are taking power and position from the chair where you are sitting, so you can comment. No, but you can give a warning, and you can warn us that someone has deviated from the debate, not by giving valuable judgment. You gave them to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u200	A colleague, by his or her authority as Chairman [[…]] [[Speaking through each other]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u201	Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure as Vice-President. And you behave indecently when you don't let me finish the motion. That's not nice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u202	Don't teach me about [[…]] [[/talk through each other.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u203	I appreciate you, Comrade Tanko, very much, just not to do that. And it is right for the Members to warn you, regardless of status, regardless of age.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u204	My colleague Möderndorfer, I let my colleague discuss that she said what she meant, I did not harm her, I did not disturb her, but I warned her after the discussion that she was saying inaccuracies and that things were not true, even as regards the determination of constitutionality or the statements she made. This can be verified on its own by the extracts of those institutions which give these extracts. But you can look at the business. No problem. Now I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I can still see that interest is in the debate. Anybody else want some? Gregor the Jew, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u205	Yes, thank you very much. I don't have much time, but in the previous law of PKP6, the minister promised he'd be in the next one. [[sign for the end of the debate]] also a sport summed up together. Unfortunately, I don't see anything about it, and I would ask for one answer when sport will be on this list, as well as getting some support or support for sport. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Time's up. Does anyone else want to discuss these two articles or these two amendments? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the general debate on Articles 1 and 70b. I put to the debate, in general debate I am putting forward Article 10 and the amendments of the SMC Group, the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups, and the amendments of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups. Here you go, Mr. Han, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u207	But it's not your fault, Vice President, but we still don't have a review of the amendments. Now it would have been helpful, after nine hours, to have a review of the amendments, to see what amendments they are and so on. That's a little bit of a problem now. I would ask, because we've all spent all this time, but we have an amendment review because it's hard to do that and decide that and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u208	Thank you very much, colleague Han. You probably know that the procedure is such that, in the case of laws tabled under the urgency procedure, amendments may be tabled even until the end of the proceedings under the Article. And now that we have a hundred articles on our hands there and we don't know who's going to invest it's hard to make a credible review of the amendments tabled. But they can also put this temporary check on the network. This is possible, but serious cannot be done, because amendments can still be made. Anybody want to talk? Please, Edward Paulich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u209	Thank you. I would like to explain the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 10 of this Act. We propose a new paragraph of Article 10, which reads: "Despite the provisions of the fifth paragraph, a legal or natural person who is proud of government measures banning business in 2020 could not carry out its activities for the period of closure eligible for reimbursement of 80 % of sales. The sales revenue shall be measured during the eligible period compared to the sales revenue of the same period of 2019 or compared to the sales revenue of the beneficiary during the eligible period compared to the sales revenue of the period from registration of the beneficiary to 1 September 2020 calculated for the same accounting period. The aid shall be calculated on the basis of the aid already received by the State covering the remaining costs.” It is the fact that companies that are forcibly closed by the government are thus in solidarity with companies that can operate in these difficult times. Therefore, they should be reimbursed for this solidarity in a way that would cover their income losses. We therefore propose a simple and effective measure in the Marjan Šarca List, which has already been adopted in our neighbouring country. In this way, we help to maintain businesses and jobs so that, when the situation allows, they can start their activities immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u210	Thank you very much. This is the first debate after eight and a half hours which is consistent with the Rules of Procedure. It's sad. Anyone else want a word? Since no one wants another word, I conclude the debate. We have tabled an amendment to Chapter 13 and Article 28. The amendments of SDS and NSIs to Chapter 13 and Article 28 are substantively linked. They are also substantively linked to the amendments of the SMC Group to Chapter 13 and Article 28 and we will therefore discuss the title of the chapter and this Article together. I am therefore putting to the debate the title of Article 13 of Chapter and Article 28 and the two amendments of the SDS and NSI groups of Members and the two amendments of the SMC Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Comrade Jože Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me at least so much freedom to say what I think about this amendment to Article 28. Why? Because I firmly believe that this is the first solution in terms of retirement, not just retirement as such, but not what has now been so harmful and negative that it is a forced retirement. Ladies and gentlemen, each of the Group of Members must have at least one Member, Member or Member who has experience in the Business Council. I'm not going to say, I'm not going to say what mine are, I'm only going to appeal to all those who have this experience, and who, I believe, if you just turn your mind on a little bit, then you can say that this is a good solution and that this is the only right solution. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have 4 000 505 workers in the public sector and 7 000 818 workers in the private sector, a total of 12 000 323 workers who today have the conditions for retirement. You can find some people in the government who are 49 years old. With all due respect, I'm sure they're useful, or all of them -- I'm not sure. And neither do you. I also allow myself to express your opinion aloud. It is true that we Slovenian companies are recorders because people are moving too quickly from the labour market. Unfortunately, we are even more recorders in the European Union, because young people are too late to enter the labour market. We're recorders here. Indeed, absolute within the EU. Why within the EU – because we have a common European market, we also have a labour market. And we don't want this amendment – God forbid, let me say what I mean, what I honestly mean. We do not wish to force anyone to withdraw and force the termination of the employment agreement. We put this in the hands of the employer. You know, we in this country and with this employer we did mostly negative things, mostly. Almost nothing, almost at the end of the shift, can ask the worker what he has done and so on, because anything – if he lifts his eyebrows, the employer is already mobile. We all know that. And if the employer of a worker who has met the conditions for retirement today finds that he may need a younger force in this job, which has new knowledge, that is, a young expert, or even if you want a physical worker. Such are also valuable gold, of course, and then the employer, on the basis of this amendment, which I also co-signed on behalf of the parliamentary group, can thank the worker and can, I may stress, no automation, be able to terminate the employment contract. Thus, such a worker will retire, and all social security is ensured. We have been particularly careful about this because we are advocating a social market model for the economy. Social security is provided even more, and here is the point. Why, in fact, do unions in some way support this or not protest it? Because retirement in this way is a big burden for the employer. Why - because it clearly states that the discharge will be in accordance with Article 108 of the Labour Relations Act. What does this law say, this article, article 108? He says that you, who is in some way dismissed by your employer, but very kind, can also receive a pension of ten wages, ten wages. It's not like someone's throwing you on the road. What's more, you can make a deal. Yesterday, it was wrongly very, very harmfully interpreted that we will now, because of this adoption of such a, such a solution to thousands of doctors and nurses. That's not true, ladies and gentlemen. Don't hold it. Don't hold it. The solution may also be that the contract is terminated, the worker retires, as it is said at home, and then returns to the employment relationship and gets 40 percent of the pension. If it were our way, these pensions would be 100%, because that's the right, and that's the right, and I'd get a salary. If, of course, the organization, the company, the hospital of this expert, needs this worker. I'm asking you nicely, not for support, just for thought. We don't need any ideology here. You may be against this because Horvath, who explains it, is from a coalition party, but we want to honestly open up the opportunity for young people. This is supported by young people, which is supported by all the chambers. We received – heads of the parliamentary groups – support from the employers' association, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and so on. Young people support it, experts support it. Today, she expressed her support again, today, on Twitter, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, precisely this solution that I presented. And, look, we're not going anywhere if we're just going to adopt some cosmetic laws, nowhere. You're going to say, yes, why is this one now, here, in the intervention law? Yes, of course I do. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Why, it was during the crisis that there were major turbulences or distortions in the labour market. Please, please, I ask you very nicely, for consideration and, of course, for support of this amendment, to Article 29 of the 28th and, of course, Article 29. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments of the SDS and NSI Members' Groups to Chapters 14 and 29 are substantively linked and will be discussed together. I am putting to the debate the title of Articles 14 and 29, and the two amendments of the SDS and NSI groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of the SDS and NSI groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] No, I'm closing the debate. Amendment of the Desus Group to Chapter 15. The Law on Religious Freedom is not introduced in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 135 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so we will not discuss and decide on it. I am putting to the debate Article 40 and the amendments of the SD, LMŠ and SAB. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] No, that's why I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendments of the SAB, LMŠ and SD. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Nobody, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 53 and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB, the amendment of the left-wing Group, and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 60 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 75 and the amendments of the SAB, LMŠ and SD groups, as well as the amendments of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 76 and the amendments of the SAB, LMŠ and SD. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 86 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] No one, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 88 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Nobody, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate article 89a and the amendment of the SMC Group of Ambassadors and the amendments of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Nobody, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 93 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Nobody, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 95 and the amendments of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Nobody, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 105, and the amendments of the SDS, SMC and NSI, the amendments of the SAB, LMŠ and SD, and the amendments of the left-wing groups and LMŠ. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 121 and the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, Levica and SD groups. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 127 and the amendment of the Desus Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 129 and the amendment of the Desus Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 131 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI groups of Members. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate article 131a and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI MPs. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in 30 minutes according to the meeting's schedule, which is at 21.05. The amendment review will be published immediately after termination. Meet me in five minutes in nine. I hereby interrupt this agenda item and the 55th extraordinary session, which will be resumed at 21.05. (The sitting was suspended at 20.37.) (The sitting resumed at 21.05)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u213	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. I inform you that the National Assembly will first vote on the 2nd, then on the 3rd item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interruption of the 2nd item of the agenda, the second reading of the draft law on intervention measures to help mitigate the consequences of the second wave of covid-19 epidemic – pkp7 as part of the emergency procedure. We continue with the second reading, i.e. by deciding on the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled 12. 2020, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 1(1). If the amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SMC Group to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 36. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 1 has been adopted under Article 1, the amendment of the SMC Group to the same Article under Article 2 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC Group to Article 1(2). A colleague of Janja the Servant in the name of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u214	Under number 3. So I would only point out that here, in Article 1, the Act on STA is also added to the set of laws that change with this PKP7. Therefore, of course, I ask that you pay attention to this so that there will be no further non-conformity in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u216	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Now, in the List of Marjan Šarc, this article, Article 1, of the amendment, of course, will be supported. Then we'll support the 70.b. Why? We are fully aware that this does not belong to this intervention legislation, but we have referred to this subject two meetings of the Committee on Culture, where we have adopted 10 conclusions. Mr. Urbania, Director Ukom is ignoring all of this. In fact, a civil servant has a lot to offer and ignores what this National Assembly has accepted. It should have been implemented a long time ago, of course. Now, because this establishment of the STA is actually another one in a series of systematic government attacks on the media, this is actually a pressure on freedom, media freedom, journalistic independence and editorial autonomy. It is a matter of dealing with the media, because they do not report as they seem to be to the supreme boss, because they do not polish the image because they are critical because they objectively say what is happening in this country right now. And, of course, that's the biggest ruling party that bothers. Now, in the List of Marjan Šarca we would expect Director Ukoma to respect the conclusions, but of course there is nothing in this new normality as it once was. Therefore, as has been said several times before, in the List of Marjan Šarc, we believe that STA is no national disgrace as tweeted by the Prime Minister. We believe in the List of Marjan Šarca that they are an independent, highly professional and credible agency, where professional journalists work, doing their work properly, objectively and honestly, and so on. We will therefore support this amendment, which does not fall under this legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that we are still at amendment number 3, which is then bound to article 70.b. My colleague Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. In Levica we welcome this amendment and see it as a solution for something that should not have happened. Indeed, what the director of UKOM affords is a literal blow to everyone in the heart of the media landscape. So the attack on an independent press agency and thus the subordination of this agency, and so on, the subordination of the media. And that is why we once again welcome this solution, although, as colleague Mirnik has said, this is in principle not part of anti-Korona legislation, as is not the case, because we are witnessing in every anti-Korona package. But since obviously the conclusions of the Committee on Culture in the National Assembly are not relevant enough for the Director of UKOM, it is no different than to reach out for a proposal and once again welcome and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Matjaž Han on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u220	Yes, thank you very much. Now, with this amendment, we will allow then to vote in Article 70b. I must say that this amendment, as well as the next 70.b amendment, does not speak of Janez Janša or of Urbania or of Veselinovich, but it speaks of the fact that, unfortunately, we will have to finance what, by law, the state should finance, but that is simply the salaries of 100 employees in this Slovenian press organization, and that seems to me, to the agency, and that is the only thing that I think is right. But it is true that when we support this in the opposition, we will probably no longer be able to say much more that some other articles do not fit in this package. So we put everything on the same denominator now, and that's why we're going to support it now, but I should say, Janji the Servant thanks for the courage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Masha Kociper on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u222	Then I will just explain in this article the position of the SAB Group. We too will, of course, and the amendment that regulates the title, and then we will support the amendment under article 70.b. Not only are we not going to ignore the conclusions of this National Assembly, it is not just the will of a UKOM director, it is the fact that the government has intervened in the STA in an illegal way. This illegality has even been brought to the attention of the government before the act itself. I have looked at this opinion, and even there it has been clearly written that this right has not been exercised by the government. THE STA has a special status under our legislation, independent, protected by special law and has a special status in terms of funding. And regardless of what the reasons were, when some felt that they had the right to stop funding, these reasons were not even at the time that you decided to do so in the government, and you were reminded of this by the government's legal service. The other experts have repeated this and the entire situation so far, when the STA is not financed, is an illegal situation, contrary to the existing STA law. And this illegal situation must be removed and removed by this provision in this intervention law. So we'll support it in the SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Before we go to the vote, I would like to remind you that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same motioner to article 70.b. So if this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to article 70.b becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 86 Members and a Member present, 47 votes against 38. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC Group of Members and on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to Article 10 under number one and two. Since the amendments are substantively the same, we will vote on them together. Comrade Primož Siter, explanation of vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u224	Yes, thank you very much. These amendments are, or this amendment, this article is related to article 89a, article 89a, which we also discussed yesterday and today, so I will allow myself a word, two, and then I will not answer. Now, Article 89a, or this proposal, punishes those who do not respect its actions by depriving them of the right to aid from anti-Korona packages. So, compensation for waiting for work, payback due to reduced working time and monthly basic income. So, for example, if you are the recipient of any of these, let's say, waiting allowances, but you're caught in yoga as it happened, say, Jelk Kacin or at a maskless pump, you're caught by a cop, or on a burek or on a croissant, so you're looking at 400 euros of defolk fine plus another penalty for taking away the fundamental right to essentially survival. So, double punishment. Which, of course, on one hand, I am critical because I see one perverse masochistic survival over people, enjoying their misery. People are dying, the economy is collapsing, while the government should comfort these people, persuade them, calm them, relieve them, deepen them. Plus, which is also pointed out by the Legal and Legal Service, the matter is at odds with every legal and constitutional logic. Double punishment for one mistake. This provision, however, is problematic, critical or even more unacceptable for a number of reasons. First, workers in crowded halls are still infected, exposed, sick, forced to make profits after eight and nine months of the epidemic, and the competent services remain silent. We have government representatives, representatives of the state summit without masks. The services are working. The second thing, and then the second scenario is in protestors, last week they protested with umbrellas, they did not endanger anybody's health, and they were ingrained because they were endangering public health and they were now under social pressure in addition to the 400 euros fine. Why? Because they were critical of the government. The target is clear. Opposers of the government are intimidated by repression to silence to the point that they will be forced to gather between the protest and criticism of the government or a piece of bread on the other hand. Yesterday I used a sharp term and was criticized for it, but I cannot see here one clear element of fascist repression. The deletion of this nonsense from this law will therefore be supported by the Left's Group because the death of fascism. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u225	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The hour is late, today we are getting a little carried away, I suggest we calm down and discuss it normally. My colleague Janja Slug has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We have also tabled an amendment with the same content in the SMC to this Article, and I will explain a little differently. The purpose of these antikrons is to get people help as soon as possible. As soon as possible in a simple way to help them. What we are doing now in Article 10 and also in Article 89a is contrary to what we are really taking these measures. For us, it is not just and only retroactivity that we think would allow us to collect now, we will put those we will take from them, what they have received, and those we will not. But also from the point of view of the violation of some government measures for one thing that comes with an inspection, it deepens you, you pay that fine, and so on. This cannot be linked to what belongs to you on the basis of anti-Korona measures. One is separate from the other. In any case, if we are talking about the reimbursement of fixed costs, as we say in this Article, as well as in Article 89a, when we are talking about other measures, this is how we approach individual entities that may sometimes not be at fault. If there is, I don't know if it's someone who provides some services, but some party doesn't stick to the measures, it's very difficult for you to force it. And it can just because a client doesn't hold on to punishment, and in fact, the entity itself as such is not guilty, if I just plow one position, but I believe that any one of them can remember is innumerable. From this point of view of justice, as well as from the point of view of retroactivity. We oppose such content, so we have also tabled an amendment to the SMC, of course, which we will support.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan jedan on behalf of the emissary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u228	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members, once again a nice greeting during today. The Social Democrats will, of course, support our joint amendment, and you can understand why. First of all, if the amendment were to say that drastic penalties are for those who do not comply with the rules that they themselves adopt in order to set a double example, a triple example, they would immediately support. I have no problem if Mr Jelko Kacin, who removed the mask in front of the mask, I think he removed the mask in front of the camera, punished in such a way as to get the punishment of a health inspectorate to pay back 12 salaries. I do not have a problem with this, because if he does not take part in the decision-making process and must be an example of this, the measures cannot work because there is a rebellion that I do not support, because we have to fight the epidemic. However, I understand why people who accept restrictions themselves for the whole of Slovenia should be a double model and if they are not punished. But this marriage, respected and respected, I mean this article doesn't talk about it. This Article does not refer to the fact that it is not allowed to take unreliable and unforeseeable measures that are also on the run. Don't talk about the epidemic being decided by epidemiologists and not everyone else, pediatricians, infectologists, defenders, only epidemiologists are outcasts. They're the only ones who can be decorated. It speaks of people who break, however, being punished by other laws. But because they're getting on someone's nerves, they'll be punished even more. With this being unconstitutional, it's a threat. Now why do we have to vote with respect and respect by withdrawing it? The threats at the time of the epidemic, when we want people to take the necessary measures because of their looks, are one of the four reasons why there is no effect. And the most we can do today to help control the epidemic faster is to remove the threat from a specific law. That is why we will vote by Members and Members in such a way as to remove this particular threat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u229	Thank you very much. My colleague Natasha Sukić, on behalf of the House of Representatives. [[adverts from benches]] in their own. On my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u230	I'm on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u231	Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? No, no, no. In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u232	Yeah, I'd still be in my own name, well. Of course, I support this Article, because it is already a complete absurdity or anomaly, which is something incredible. I mean, you can't punish someone twice for some offense. It's like someone commits a traffic offence and then pays the penalty for this traffic violation, and then they take his pension, say. Can you imagine? This is what you wanted to do, and this is actually an article that I call an article against, I don't know, a dissident article we can call it, actually, because it's probably a lot of these protestors who are in depth and now what, they wouldn't have any rights in this logic. [[…]] And those who are doing civil disobedience, for example, as we witnessed a few days ago and have already paid a high fine, but now they should pay a second time. I mean, it just doesn't work in some legal, regulated country. It just doesn't work. Double punishment, no way. I therefore, of course, welcome this proposal to Article 10 and, of course, I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u233	Thank you very much. We're voting. More?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u234	Yeah, I'll vote for it, too, of course. In fact, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u235	Another explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u236	I can't believe anyone thinks that. Look, we're talking about someone not knowing, taking off a mask or going with a umbrella in front of Parliament, and not only getting 400 euros in fines, but losing their salary to wait for work or a basic income. So you'll cut it off from existence. What's the next step? That some pensioner would say something against the government, you'd say - he won't be receiving a pension anymore. Or some teacher said something against the government and you will say - you must no longer be employed in the public sector. I mean, that's where we're going. Well, that's completely arbitrary, that's completely insane. I don't even know how anyone in this House who thinks he's a Democrat or sits in a party that has no idea, either on his own behalf or in the Statute, that he's for democratic principles, can even be aware that he's voting for something like this. I don't understand. The basis of democracy is that people have some basic personal freedom, and here you people who will commit a crime are torn away from their basic existence. And it didn't happen, I mean, even in the worst, in the darkest days of totalitarianism, well, I mean, this way. And I don't know how anyone in this room can think of himself as a Democrat and will now vote against this amendment that this [[sign for the end of the debate]] An absurd, completely absurd article is deleted. I will, of course, vote against it because, as Primož said, the death of fascism.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u237	[[Laughing in the hall]] We're voting. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 37. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 37.]] I find that the amendment has been adopted or adopted, so to speak. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 10. 3. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS and NSI groups of Members and on the amendment of the SMC Group of Ambassadors to Chapter 13, No. 1 and 2. Since the amendments are substantively the same, we will vote on them together. The amendments are substantively linked to the amendments to Article 28. If this amendment is not accepted, this amendment of the SMC Group of Ambassadors under No. 1 and Amendments to the SDS and NSI Groups of Members Article 2, paragraph 28, is irrelevant. A colleague of Janja the Servant in the name of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u238	Yes, thank you President, I will come to you here, because the title of this chapter needs to be changed if we want to then to Article 28, of course, this amendment, which we have proposed as some middle variant between what was proposed and during the complete deletion, as I have already said in my debate, that we are going somehow against the calls from the economy that we have, I believe, all of us have received in these days, we have found in the SMC some middle way, so I will say, which would be considered, of course, for all employees, both in the public and in the private sector, and in the way that we have been most disturbed by the proposed 28th and 29th articles, which were designed as permanent measures. On the contrary, we are now proposing the application of this temporary measure, which would be limited to the year following that of the 2019 unemployment rate, which we all know exactly what good unemployment indicators were in 2019. Therefore, the measure should be limited in time and set out the possibility of agreeing to continue the working relationship between the worker and the employer, up to three times per year, which means also without interruption or reappointment with the same worker, as this would mean an unnecessary administrative and financial burden for us. It is also laid down in this amendment that the employer obtains data on the fulfilment of the conditions of the PPIZ, and what is most important is that we set the age achieved significantly higher, i.e. 40 years of supplementary working age or retirement age without totality and 65 years of working age, and then the employer and the worker have 2 months to agree on a follow-up or not. Why 65 years? Because we believe that this is a much more appropriate age when we are talking mainly about the personnel that are missing, which we were also talking about yesterday, at the committee meeting itself, when some of you were drawing attention to health workers, doctors and so on. We believe that 60 years is too low and that it is more appropriate to place this limit at 65 years. Like I said, it's a matter of some kind. [[sign for the end of the debate]] a compromise proposal, in particular for a temporary measure, and we believe that the measures in this package should be.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The word is given by Franz Jurša, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u240	President, thank you. Regardless of what option we would participate in in a coalition or opposition, our group simply cannot support this proposal, especially because it is not long ago, we have spoken, we have made some decisions in the National Assembly, where we said that the working age and age of pensioners should be extended, but now we are going to another option and I think that this second option can be settled within the system law, and today we have also told the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. If we find a common compromise, then we can also expect to support this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u242	It's already the seventh anti-corinary package, already the seventh package in which the so-called rat eggs or the cowardly eggs grumble. All these cowardly eggs, which have nothing to do with the coronary epidemic, have much to do with the repression held by the government of Janez Janša and the feeding of friends of the government of Janez Janša. This time one of them is also an attack on workers' rights. More specifically, forced retirement for older workers. Remember, PKP 7 is late, late drasticly. Probably one of the reasons is that with PKP 7 the government of Janez Janša wanted to freeze the rise in minimum wages and thus rob the working class of hard-earned raises. They didn't make it. The unions put themselves on their backs and threatened with a general strike. Nevertheless, the government of Janez Janša did not just give in. Their capitalist friends in the industrial sector are on hand with a penalty provision that employers will be able to apply against older workers. If this provision is adopted, employers who have reached the age-retirement threshold will be allowed to retire from a 60-day retirement period. Where's the catch? An old-age pension is lower than a professional pension. Thus, workers will be robbed on this account of fair remuneration at the age, while employers will save, older workers will receive quite high allowances for working age, especially where they have strong trade unions and strong collective contracts, by sending them to their homes, thus facilitating their balance sheets, taking someone younger to work, and will, of course, draw on one side the state budget, and on the other hand, as I mentioned, older workers will receive an old pension for their retirement. This proposal is rejected by the working class, which keeps us in the midst of an epidemic that goes to work despite the threat of infection, goes to industrial zones, goes to the homes of the elderly, everywhere there are some urgent industries or jobs that carry bread, because the government of Janez Janša does not help them all too often, and thanks towards the end of the second wave of the epidemic is that employers will send them to a lower pension. We will, of course, vote in Levica against such a provision being returned in any compromise form to the law, especially since this provision of the PKP 7 interferes with the Act on Working Relations beyond the social dialogue and beyond the agreement with the working representatives of the Economic and Social Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u243	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 33. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 33.]] I understand that the amendments have been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC Group to Article 28 under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS and NSI to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. No, no, no. Explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Masha Kociper. On your own? Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name, Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u244	What was said most of the time before we voted on the title of the article is, in fact, a topic relating to the amendment to Article 28. I would like to say that, as regards the vote on this article in the SAB Group, we are not united, so I will explain the vote on my behalf. I will support this SMC proposal. At the time of the previous coalition, I have taken a very strong stand, and I have personally advocated that employers should have a word in mind, however, who can, after reaching the conditions for retirement, remain in a working relationship and who can not. There must be some compromise between the employer and the employee. It should be borne in mind that this situation, in which the worker is no longer in social danger, is no longer in social danger, has some rights that belonged to him, belong to him under the law and is protected by his social status. Of course, this country, at least as the previous coalition has thought, has encouraged more long-term employment for people to remain in a working relationship, but I cannot agree, not in such a critical situation, that the employer in the private sector as well as in the public sector has absolutely no say in who can remain behind. There should be some dialogue and some compromise here. Moreover, SMC's solution is one that belongs to such a law – interventional – for a certain period. That's why I will personally support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u245	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 71. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 71.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 28(2). We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 35. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS and NSI groups to chapter 14. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 29. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 29 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 38. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 29. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 37. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 30. Explanation of vote, colleague of Violet Tomić on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. Already on the committee, this amendment was clearly rejected, for it is clear that gifts to the Catholic Church do not have any place in the law that is supposed to offer measures to ease and help in the second wave of the Corona epidemic. We have already witnessed in the PKP6 that you have allocated €700 of basic income to religious servants, and now you are giving them even higher social contributions. Earlier in the discussion, I asked who the employer was to the self-employed in culture and who were to the religious servants. If you want to evaluate them, it's essential. In an epidemic of priests, Janša’s government has even compared self-employed people with self-employed culturers and independent entrepreneurs with religious servants, who have about a thousand bishops and regular priests, and have also been exempt from all contributions to all compulsory social insurance. As owner of forests and agricultural land, the church also receives crisis measures in the field of agriculture. Although the RCC in Slovenia has great wealth, the church is the mega-corporation, the largest company in the country, for example the company Metropolitana Ljubljanska nadskofia, had a net profit of €7.5 at €14 million last year. In December 2018, she had €30 million in bank deposits, and the proceeds of high profits also come from the management of forests returned to the church by the state. Metropolitana owns 15,000 hectares of forests. Now there is a promise of ownership in Triglav National Park, the forest economy Bled, which manages the forests of Pokluka, and Jelovica generated as much as 52 million euros in revenue and 3 million euros in profits last year. In all this outrageous wealth, the Archbishop of Maribor has even succeeded in bankrupting you, not to mention bell 1 and bell 2, which has caused endless unemployment and the destruction of companies. In short, the church enjoys limitless benefits and gives these measures not only to priests but also to churches, cooks, housewives and only in 2018, the state budget cost this EUR 1.7 million. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Although the church in Slovenia is exempt from tax on profits, VAT, property tax, building land tax, inheritance tax, gifts and the like, in short, State aid to the RCC is unconstitutional, as it means that the state finances religious activity of priests, which is contrary to religious neutrality and separation under the Constitution, which binds the country after the constitution. And I'm also curious, and I didn't get an answer as to how they proved [[sign for the end of the debate]] the loss of income at this time of coronation. Thank you. Of course we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u247	We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 40. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 51. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ and SD to Article 45. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 50. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 50. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 4. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 53(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendments of the SDS, SMC and NSI groups of Members and the amendment of the Levica Group to the same Article 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 53(2). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the left-wing group to the same Article under number 3 will become irrelevant. My colleague Natasha Sukich. On behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u248	Yes, thank you. I see that, despite the fact that the coalition tabled the amendment a little later, it skipped ours, which is actually identical, so of course we will support, no, something that is identical. But this is another story about how you do not support the opposition amendments, but rather copy the opposition amendment, skip, although it should not be in the order, and then, of course, it is your amendment. But anyway, it's a good thing, because this amendment provides 100% of the compensation for the absence of a hospital and the reimbursement for it to employees of social security housing providers. And because this is about meaningfully the same services as institutional protection services. We are talking about, say, networks of social protection programmes that include individual areas for vulnerable groups, such as preventing violence, assisting victims of violence, then assisting in mental health, helping homeless people, helping young people who have lost their homes and so on. In short, it is about helping very important programmes that help vulnerable groups, and of course we welcome that this will be accepted, even in a somewhat funny way, and so much about these stories, how we somehow cannot come together to support some opposition amendment. Thank you. We will, of course, support as we say.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u249	Thank you very much. A colleague of Matthew the Widow on behalf of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I certainly need to talk to you about why we're going to support this amendment. This amendment was not tabled as a coalition amendment because it was tabled by the Left. However, this amendment is broader, covers a number of these organisations, and we will in fact capture all the beneficiaries of such or similar work. That is why the coalition partners did not support the opposition amendment tabled by the Left this morning. Let me also say here that we have been informed of these amendments by all the parliamentary groups. We received an amendment from various organisations, and in fact it went to whoever would put it in place first, or I think it was more important that we fully regulate it, and we have put it together by coalition partners, and now we will support it. Thank you very much. Certainly not so as not to accept the opposition amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u251	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 3. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI sent groups to Article 53(2) has been adopted, the amendment of the Left Group to the same Article under Article 3 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Members' groups Levica, LMŠ, SAB and SD to Article 60. Ask Siter, on behalf of the delegation, to explain the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u252	The law in this part speaks of opening shops on Sunday or for two weeks. One is the next, which is January 3rd, and the bill also says that we could open trade two days ago. It's a little fun, and there's actually no reason to talk about this at all. Why? So that the closed trade on Sundays we decided socially at a referendum 18 years ago, and finally the matter matured so much that we brought him to a full-fledged legislative procedure in this national assembly two months ago and decided most of the time in this national assembly that yes, trade must be closed on Sundays. Because for the first time, no one will be hungry and impoverished if they don't go to the store on Sunday. Secondly, and most importantly, the people who work there can afford one day of rest, one day with their family. We're in a bit of a chaotic time, we understand that, and we need to be careful not to hang out too much and not be crowded in closed spaces. I understand that. But I don't understand the confused actions of governments that open trade once, shut down once, then open hair salons and close them again. In the end, no one knows where we are or what these measures are. But time is festive when we're a little confused, but we don't know which day is open. January 3rd will be the first Sunday in 2021, and after the trades have been closed for two days, as they were closed under the same regime last weekend, we have just survived. There is no reason for us not to spend another weekend and not allow the sellers and sellers to spend this New Year's Silvest weekend in peace without any work obligations with their loved ones. Rest is a key part of the work process, which our society forgets too often and it is a matter of our political will at this time whether we will allow sellers and sellers what we will afford without difficulty. It's just a week.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u253	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. 61 votes against 16. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the decision of the Group of Members by article 70.b. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 40. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 40]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We turn to the decision of the SAB, LMŠ and SD groups to Article 75(1). We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 49. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the decision of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB by Article 75(2). Mag. Dejan Židan, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u254	Thank you, President, for your word. We'll vote in favour. We also ask the others to support us. We even think that the current arrangement, that when a family is, say, a three-member family — we know such a case — buys an annual ticket for their children, but they do not attend school, that then this family, through credit, essentially co-finances the carrier’s operation by not benefiting from the service itself, is probably not meant. If the government prohibits school transport, if the government prohibits schooling through schools, but it is online schooling, of course we understand that it is helping carriers. But not the way the families lend them. I understand that in the Group of Members we understand that this is done by the Government, the state budget, but not by a specific family. And with this amendment, we are correcting this mistake. Families may refund the money they have invested in annual or monthly tickets which they cannot use because the Government has banned transport, school transport, or only schooling. They can refund within 30 days and they do not have to wait through credit until one year or until the next school year. So I propose to help families, let's say 750 euros is a concrete cost to some families. And why would a family co-finance or loan this money to a particular transport company? Let the state do so, as in other cases, and here we ask for support. Nor do I believe that such a solution was intended. That's probably what happened to the slip, and now we're fixing it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u255	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ and SD to Article 76. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 49. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 86. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, for 51, for 2. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Members' Groups of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD to Article 88. Comrade Boštjan Koražija, explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. In article 88, we propose in the left hand side. In Article 88 in the left hand side, we propose that the number 30 be replaced by 85% in the first paragraph. In fact, we are talking again about this group J, these are actually non-professional workers in health and social care activities, it is said that the so-called non-health personnel, which greatly aids or without them this health system or the social system would not survive or be unable to operate. Therefore, we propose that the proposed allowance for public servants in the J-paying group’s workplaces, in healthcare and social services, be increased from 30% to 85%. Please support. I think they deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u257	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC Group of Members and on the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to Article 89a. 1 and 2. Since the amendments are substantively the same, we will vote on them together. Comrade Primaj Siter, on behalf of the messenger.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u258	Yes, I only recall the collected forum that Article 89a, which introduces double punishment, is also the withdrawal of the right to compensation for waiting for pay due to reduced working hours or monthly basic income, to all those who do not respect or the Government considers that they do not respect anti-korona measures. Here we follow the sound logic of an open and democratic society on the one hand, and, on the other hand, we follow the recommendations of the Legal and Legal Service, which has itself found that this is a measure that is rooted in every legal and constitutional logic. We cannot therefore confirm such a measure, but we will therefore vote in favour of deleting such inappropriate and tasteless political action.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u259	We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 39. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 93. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 7. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to Article 95. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the Left and the LMŠ to Article 105. 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ and SD shall become Article 105. 2 non-significant. Explanation of the voice, Boštjan Koražija, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u260	The bill provides that the aid for the purchase of rapid antigen tests is justified by economic companies, independent entrepreneurs and cooperatives, and not by other private employers. Since it is a preventive epidemiological measure, the amendment proposes to include all employers in the private sector among the beneficiaries, as financial assistance for the purchase of tests will increase their use and help prevent infections. Extending the range of beneficiaries to all private employers will only minimally increase the cost of the measure. In the meantime, the self-employed economy, according to SURS data, employs around 700,000 people, who remain private employers only 35,000, representing a maximum of 5 per cent increase in costs or a maximum of EUR 1.4 million, compared to about 28 million if the measure were used for each employee in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u261	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ and SD to Article 105 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 51. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 105 under Article 3. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 2. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, Levica and SD to Article 121. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 49. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 127. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 36. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 129. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 36. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 131. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 131a. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the Second Defence Assembly has adopted amendments to Chapters 1, 10 to Title 13, Chapter 28, to Title 14, Chapters 29, 50, 53, 60, 70.b, 86, 89.a, 93, 105., 127., 131.a of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I ask the Government's representative whether the law is harmonised because of the amendments adopted at second reading. I see there's no other treatment. I don't think so. Yes, it is. So I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me that the bill would be inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. An explanation of the voice, what? Yeah. Colleague Andrea Zabret, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u262	Your Honor! If we ask ourselves what we have right now, what is our current situation in Slovenia? We have a government that can't write laws because they've alerted the Legal and Legal Service to almost every article on the stand. We have PKPs from 1 to 7, which are opaque, unclear and give rise to a legally unsustainable situation. We have a president of the Committee on Finance who is more than citizens [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u263	Wait a minute, colleague Andre Zabret, I'll stop you. I subsequently received a notice from the Legal and Legislative Service that the law was not harmonised. I'm adjourning the session, which we'll resume in an hour at 11:00. (The sitting was suspended at 22.07 p.m.) (The sitting resumed at 22.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u264	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we proceed with the sitting and the second item. First of all, I ask the leaders of the groups, Members and Members of Parliament if there are any Members who have not been able to come at this time because they are counting on a later start. Are you all right? Not yet, okay, we'll just wait a little longer. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are proceeding with the meeting. Anybody want to explain their voice? My colleague, Andre Zabret, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u265	Yes, thank you for your word. One more try. Now, if we ask ourselves what situation we have today in Slovenia, we have a government that can't write laws, because they have warned the Legislative and Legal Service about almost every article already. We have PKPs from one to seven that are opaque, unclear and create a legally unsustainable situation. We have a president of the Committee on Finance who is more interested in discretion than citizens and citizens, who can be invited to committees and who can't. Self - interest is a serious thing, especially when it crosses all boundaries. We have a Fiscal Council that has been punished and has not been invited to the Finance Committee because it has been too critical of government action. It points out that government measures are inadequate both in terms of public finances and in terms of promoting the economy. We have re-setters in the PKP7, such as the abolition of the NGO fund, forced retirement, the permanent equalisation of payments of the contributions of religious officials that we have managed to delete [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u266	Please, be quiet, come on. Dear colleagues, colleagues, a little silence, please give me a colleague Pojibich, please. [[…]] Please be quiet if I don't give you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u267	Are we in the zoo or what?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u268	Go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u269	May I continue? Thank you. But we have a government that can't get out of its skin and today has tabled amendments to return articles to cover contributions to religious servants and forced retirement. We have the power to take state aid away from all those who violate the government's decisions, and back to back. We have ministers who are not all as important as all citizens, so certain categories of people, from children with special needs, to young people, students and to barely employed people are still being released. We have a government that is untransparently and irrationally spending public money that our grandchildren will feel and return. We have a state budget that creates external debt and household surpluses stop economic growth, which shows that measures are ineffective. We have an opposition that has made many good proposals, listened to people, the economy, the professions and, on the basis of their comments, written amendments that could improve the bill. But unfortunately, we have a government coalition that doesn't want to listen to good suggestions because of political prestige. That is why we have a situation today that cannot be supported in List Marjan Sarca PKP-7.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u271	This time the PKP is the seventh show of what you know about the government of SDS. And for the seventh time, John Janša shows he doesn't know. As soon as they are not in the game of commission for friends of the government or the abolition of democracy, the domestic extension of Viktor Orbán will short-circuit the entire line. The consequences are terrible. More than 2,000 dead, number one tragic statistics in the world. Social and mental distress for people, as well as a completely illiterate marriage. PKP-7 is exactly the last one. Instead of dealing with people’s help, he distributes public money arbitrarily, without any criteria. Thus, religious officials will receive funds from the state budget, although they have not shown that they are entitled to it in any way. On the other hand, industrial workers continue to go to work in industrial zones that are the source of infections, where the crown virus is the most widespread, and the government of Janez Janša does not want to protect them, not social or health care. The health system is cracking through our stitches, so how does this address PKP-7? It's very modest, and it's really too late. When it was time to strengthen the public health system, the government of Janez Janša was engaged in a coup against the state and the privatisation of all good because it remained in our hands. In short, the red thread of all PKPs of seven packages can be summarised in the following. Money for regime parasites, epidemic for everyone else. We're going to vote against it in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Anyone else? My colleague Masha Kociper on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u273	Yes, like any PKP, this also brings a lot of good to our citizens and to businesses and, of course, we support this in the SAB party. However, we are aware that in this way every government should act in such a situation. At the same time, as we are now adopting, this law, in the form adopted, also repeals certain provisions which we considered to be controversial to members of the opposition and, as we have seen in the previous vote, regulate the status of the State and the payment in accordance with the STA law. I regret that Members have not been able to compromise, even in this Article of the SMC, so that they do not have an adopted article which now all those who are 60 years of age and at the age of 60 are also 40 years of age of work can send the employer to retirement. If we accepted the SMC amendment, if we helped them here too, this solution would be different. In particular, it would not be permanent. A lasting solution, as has now been adopted, is by no means part of the intervention law. So in this marriage there are also good things, STA and all that we have been able to fix, and some bad things, so that in the SAB Group we will abstain.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u275	Thank you very much. You just have to be realistic and tell us the facts. We have an extensive law. The opposition and the Social Democrats have tried to reform this law. We did something. Ungovernments, I say, we put them out. I have to say, we deleted them together with the part of the coalition. We have also resolved these draconian penalties or penalties, which would retroactively burden some who have received help. Some of the articles, unfortunately, have failed, but we are still in Parliament, where most of them are done. So, after all, pensioners, families, the economy, workers receive quite a few funds. I only hope that Mr Shircelj will take this bag from which we take so much patch that the next generation can live in this country, at least I hope. Because this marriage is what it is. I would like to support it, because of some articles that have remained in it and which are for my notions that do not fit in this law, we will not be able to support the Social Democrats of this law. We will, of course, abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Janja Servant on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u277	Yes, thank you very much. Indeed, as in previous laws, there are many measures in this package that both the economy and our citizens are difficult to expect and are somehow designed to overcome this crisis. However, if we are talking about these measures for businesses, and even when we are talking about some interventions that will be aimed at both pensioners and students and children and so on. We can certainly agree here, although it may not be an enormous amount for each individual to help any such amount in the situation we are currently in. As has already been said, in the SMC we also had quite a few problems with some of the articles in this law. Of course, we are glad that things have improved. So that he didn't get out of the law, he didn't take out the NGO fund. Moreover, not only has it not been deleted, but also the percentage or income percentage has increased from 0.5% to 1%, which certainly means a better position and more funding for NGOs. I regret, of course, as colleague Maša said that this is not supported by some more balanced middle way of retirement, which, in our opinion, offered some certainty for every worker, but also allowed the employer to decide which worker he would need or would not need. We regret, of course, in the SMC, that this proposal has not been adopted. We think it represents some kind of good compromise. Of course, at this point, I would like to thank you once again for all those who supported the article relating to the STA. Once again, we know it doesn't belong in this package. We know that we should not be here, but in the current situation we have found this way as a way out for a burning problem in our opinion. We have all come to realize that this is a major problem. I really hope that now that this is stipulated in the law, however, this payment will come about. [[sign for the end of the debate]] So thank you again and, of course, in the SMC we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u278	Thank you very much. The victory of Jelinčič on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, I liked that an article on retirement had been adopted. After all, those who have ever owned a company and those who work in the economy as well as in the public service know that the biggest barriers to development are those who are old to retire, but do not want to retire, as long as someone is so good, the employer will gladly keep it. But as long as someone goes to work, not work, but they don't need that guy. And instead of that man, the young men who occupy these cities can come. There were about eight hundred doctors, and no one wondered what those young doctors who, because of those professors who should have retired a long time ago, were sitting in their seats where they received a very good salary plus 40% of the pension. These young people had to leave. And what happens in the field of medicine – there is an expert stagnation. And if we move on, the NGOs got twice as much. And if we look at the welfare of the country from the NGOs, then we see that most of these NGOs don't already know them in Trieste or Celovac, they don't even know them in Horul. If we move on to the STA. Why does the STA not respect existing laws and submit documentation? Why? Because, for example, the Journal publishes advertisements, I would say, "the witches" about the STA. Why does he need a STA commercial in the Journal? A man wonders if it's not about any pretzels and some money laundering. One wonders, people wonder. In the Slovenian National Party, despite these mistakes that have been made, because a whole bunch of amendments have been adopted, I don't know why, to the detriment of the State [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u280	Did I turn it off? Microphone, microphone. I'm an accident. Say the last sentence again. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u281	Yeah, I don't know who turned it off, but [[microphone plug-in]] [[Laughing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u282	Accidents [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u283	Ladies and gentlemen, it's not nice, isn't it, it's not nice I've always said that a lot of people are working against the Slovenian National Party, especially the media, but that it's happening in the National Assembly, and I didn't expect that. [[…]] [[…]] Well, I think just when I was talking about the STA, someone turned this microphone off. [[Laughing in the hall]] So, when the STA respects the laws and submits the documents [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, sure runs and always runs back. [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]] Of course, time is running out, yes, “Madona Santa” It is true that with some, especially members of some parties, time stands or has stopped long ago. [[…]] [[Laugh]] Well, maybe they didn't even hear me talk about NGOs. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Here, now it's over again. Well, let it be, I'll stop [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-55.ana.u284	Now it's over. [[…]] Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] No, no, no. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item — Defence proposal for a decision on the suspension of the function and the appointment of the Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the State Assembly. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by the Group of the Left and the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision ending the post of Vice-President Mojci Žnidarič in the Committee on Health and calling him Vice-President Jani Möderndorfer in the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, and calling him Vice-President Robert Pavšić. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 55th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
