ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 16th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Vojko Starović and Mrs Monika Gregorčič, MEP from 13 a.m. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers who carry out the current business and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the Prime Minister of the Government of Marjan Sarc, who conducts the current business, to the 11th item of the agenda. Ms Janez Ivan Janša, President-in-Office for the 11th A-point of the agenda, Mr Peter Svetino, the Ombudsman for Human Rights, Ms Marjetko Cotman, and Dr Jožet Ruparčič's candidate for Deputy Ombudsman for the 12th item of the agenda, the representative of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana and the representative of the Council for the 12th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government for all items of the agenda. Once again, I welcome all the welcome present! With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 16th regular meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 21 February 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 16th session be extended by 11A, this is with the proposal for the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. You received an extension proposal on Thursday 27 February 2020. Would any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups like a word? I guess not. We're moving on to decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 9. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, this meeting will be discussed by the assembly tomorrow, 3 March 2020. We are now moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have adopted it with reference and with a follow-up. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present and 72 votes against 1. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 16th meeting of the assembly has been set. We pass, honourable Members and Members, on 1. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 24 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first two questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, who conducts ongoing business. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers who carry out the ongoing business shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers carrying out ongoing business, they all have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. On this point, Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Defence, who carries out the current business, and mag, apologized for today. Ksenija Klampfer, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, who conducts ongoing business. A review of the questions referred to by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit, has been published on the electronic bench. This brings us to a presentation of the questions sent. The first two questions will be answered by Mr Marjan Sarec, President of the Government, who conducts ongoing business. Mrs Iva Dimic will be the first to raise questions for him. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, you're running errands. The seriousness of the coronavirus epidemic in Slovenia was only truly aware when it was already directly close to us when it demanded and claimed the first victims in the neighbouring Republic of Italy. Slovenia, I can tell, was scared. Doubts arose in Slovenia, but you did not instill them in time as Prime Minister of the Government. As President of the Government, you are and you have the opportunity to immediately emigrate and put matters in the right place to order or charge all services in the Republic of Slovenia to properly, if not otherwise, at least report on the situation. According to what has been written in the past days, we have already had more than 250 people tested in Slovenia. However, people question whether there has been such a case of infection in Gorica itself, people are asking what is happening in Slovenia that there is no infection in Slovenia. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] or, thank God they're not here. I would like to know, Mr. President of the Government, that you are engaged in ongoing business. Who decides which people will be tested in the Republic of Slovenia? What measures is the Government already planning? [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, please do not disturb the House of Members when it asks a question. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u4	What measures is the Government already taking, and what will it intend to take to combat the possible epidemic of the new coronavirus? What were the conclusions of the National Security Council, to which Mr Šabeder was not invited? What will be the short-term measures to address the case of infection? Once again, the Medical Chamber has pointed out that no real measures have been taken as regards equipment, awareness of all public institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you for your question. In fact, you've expressed yourself in such a way as to regret that there's no infection yet. So in a way, what's going on with us, there's no one here yet. But okay, I'm not gonna deal with this right now. In fact, with this very coloured question of yours, I can almost say you're kicking into the body because we're about to leave. But I'm going to tell you that what you're saying is that the government hasn't reacted, of course, it doesn't. You yourself have found that the Secretariat of the National Security Council has been convened to deal with this matter. They are all competent in this world, which means anything in the system of protection and rescue and health protection. I must stress that the Ministry of Health is the one that has all the powers and is also obliged by law to coordinate the whole matter. It is known that if the situation worsens, as you have found, is not yet infected when the first infection occurs, then there is a quarantine for those who will be infected if the doctors order it. Then, if there is a wider dimension and civil protection is included, military sanitation can also be included and so on. In short, there is a plan to deal with such phenomena. Then Minister Šabeder was, as we have already said, at a meeting with the ministers of the neighbouring countries, the conclusions of this meeting were adopted as follows, that the borders should remain open until the countries together decide otherwise. States will share and unify information for travellers travelling to and returning from infected areas, exchange clinical and epidemiological data with each other, unifying information for the professional and general public, including border information. Regular videoconferences will take place at the expert and ministerial level. As regards the cancellation of mass events, it should be decided from case to case and appropriate measures should be taken. These are the conclusions of a meeting of neighbouring ministers. That was last week. For the time being, these conclusions are still valid. Coordination Group for the Management of Infectious Diseases in Health, activated 27. 1. 2020, shall meet on a regular basis. For the treatment of patients suspected of being infected, it has also established entry points where citizens with reasonable suspicion will also be treated appropriately. Then he was 25. 2. 2020 at the Ministry of Health meeting with hospitals, where it was found that hospitals are relatively well prepared to receive the first infected patients with Coronavirus. That was the conclusion of this meeting. Of course, the entire communication will also take place through a crisis group at the Ministry of Health, which has been raised to the level of State secretaries and will be carried out through agreed communication channels. As far as public information is concerned, we know that it is often kept informed every day, whether there is already an infection or not in Slovenia. And, of course, we intend to do so in the future, or until this government is in office. The supply of protective equipment also resulted in the release of supplies. Forty-eight thousand protective masks, 5,000 suits, 500,000 gloves and powders for disinfection have been released from state stocks, totalling 200 000 euros. So you can't possibly say there's nothing going on in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Members, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u8	Please, yes. Dear President, I also wanted an answer, who decides which people will be tested. After all, you've given all the institutes how they're involved in this, but still. I'll tell you on a purely ordinary case. The Logatco family was on vacation in Italy, where there was a mass infection with the coronavirus and fatalities. When this family called to have school children to test themselves before the children go to school because there are 650 children in this school, they told them not to walk because until they cough, they should not take the tests. I think that's extremely irresponsible. Each individual wants to know and behave socially responsibly also in the event of such an epidemic, which is actually an epidemic. And I think it would be necessary to consider who will decide that the people who have been in these areas will get adequate medical care or the possibility of being tested. Dr. Miroslav Petrovec, who is at the Institute for Microbiology and Immunology, conducted 29 tests this weekend for the Coronavirus, 90 flu tests. And he said that two-thirds, which could also have a coronary virus, were not tested for this. I'm asking: Are we testing the right people?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u10	In my view, however, the profession is also responsible for testing and these matters. And, of course, communication or coordination, as I said, through the Ministry of Health. If people want to be tested, it has to be ensured. In the first place, however, health institutions are also responsible for as far as I can see. Health institutions have also been informed of the instructions and are also responsible for these matters. I don't know this case in detail, and of course it's hard to judge what happened or what didn't happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Dusan Shisko, you have a microphone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u12	Dear President, as you may recall, I have dedicated my first question to you, apparently the latter, regarding the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. The Krška nuclear power plant operates well and has so far had no major problems. However, it must also be borne in mind that there may be problems and even accidents, for which appropriate plans have been drawn up at the power plant itself as in the local community and at the national level. Among the possible scenarios are easier and harder forms of accidents where a smaller or more extensive evacuation of the population is envisaged. In the meantime, there could be consequences for their properties, such as objects, land, crops, not to mention. People in the vicinity of the power plant are convinced that the lower prices of real estate are partly the result of the very presence of a nuclear facility, even though it operates safely. I want to know: When evaluating properties in the Posavje region, do we detect reduced value of buildings due to the Krško Nuclear Power Plant? Is it envisaged that the total amount of compensation that could be paid to affected residents in the event of an accident would be sufficient? How is responsibility for a nuclear accident secured, and who would pay this compensation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u14	Thank you so much for asking. You're asking me a few questions. The answer to the first question is whether the evaluation detects a decrease in value due to NEK. Empirical analyses of sales of real estate in the municipality of Krško, as well as in the area of Posavje, show no speciality due to the nuclear power plant. This is also the case with regular reports on developments in the real estate market published by GURS. Reports have also been published publicly on GURS websites since 2007. Second. Is it envisaged that the total amount of compensation would be? The total amount of compensation for nuclear accident is set out in Article 7 of the Convention on Third Liability in the Field of Nuclear Energy of 29 July 1960, as amended by the Additional Protocol of 28 January 1964 and by Protocol of 16 November 1982. Within six months of the publication of the entry into force of the Protocol, the provisions of the Nuclear Damage Liability Act will enter into force with regard to the limitation of the user's liability for compensation and the responsibility of the State for nuclear damage. The Republic of Slovenia has ratified the Amending Protocol 4. 3. However, its validity is deferred until it is ratified, accepted or approved by all the Parties and is consequently not valid. Third time. How is responsibility for a nuclear accident secured, and who would pay this compensation? The liability is secured by an insurance policy concluded by the Krško and Pool Nuclear Power Plant for the insurance and reinsurance of nuclear dangers. The maximum amount for the user's liability for the damage caused by the nuclear accident is now €170 million, approximately. If nuclear damage were to exceed that amount, it is at the second level a responsible country, with its responsibility now amounting to approximately EUR 29 million. Even though these resources would not be sufficient for the full payment of damages, at third level they are jointly responsible for all the Parties to the Brussels Supplemental Conventions, with a total responsibility now amounting to approximately EUR 144 million. However, following the entry into force of the Amending Protocol, nuclear damage up to an amount of at least EUR 700 million will be covered by insurance or other financial guarantees, over EUR 700 and up to 200 million from public funds to be provided by a Contracting Party in whose territory the nuclear installation of the responsible user is located, and EUR 200 and a thousand 500 million from public funds to be provided by the Contracting Parties in accordance with the contribution formula referred to in Article 12 of the Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. That's the kind of answer I expected. But I must say, you only mentioned the Republic of Slovenia. What about Croatia's partner? We all know that Croats are half-owners, they are not mentioned anywhere. I was also very pleased when you made a statement here that you wanted to start building a second block, which we also support in Krška and Posavje. As I warned you and the Slovenian public for the first time, predictions about the construction of the final landfill of radioactive waste are 40 years old, as I also went through your life story at the time, on the first question. I'm sorry that you resigned before you could make your promise when you said that the landfill would be built within your mandate. In this way, the problem will await the new President and the new government, which they predict we will have as many as two ministers in Posav. I think they're gonna have to deal with this a little bit more. On this occasion, however, I must admit that I have always been quite pleased with your answers and that we have also worked well together, which I thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you. The waste is, of course, complicated, as is some of the other issues that we are solving with the Republic of Croatia. The problem will also be in the future, when we build the second block, of course we will have to set things differently, for sure. I believe that whoever is in the government will also work for a nuclear waste storage facility, which in my opinion we will not be able to build with the Republic of Croatia, but we will have to take a nice bite into this problem, because otherwise time will pass us by. On this occasion, of course, honourable Member, I thank you, too, for your proper cooperation. You've been asking questions about people from your area. I hope I didn't disappoint you too much. With what question is certain when, but also thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you. I thank the President of the Government, who conducts ongoing business, for the answers given. By doing so, honourable Members, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the question raised at the 15th meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister of Finance, who conducts the current business, Dr Andrej Bertoncelj, will answer Mr Branko Simonovic's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The annual allowance, so-called regress, for pensioners is a pension and disability insurance right, as it is established in accordance with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which is PPIZ-2, and belongs to pensioners under this Act. Any debtor receiving income from pension and disability insurance, including an annual allowance, shall be entitled to a personal benefit in the form of a reduction in the income of 13,5 % of the pension applied. It's a so-called tax credit. This is introduced as a result of the net principle of the calculation of pensions and also refers to the annual allowance, thus allowing for a more favourable tax treatment of this income compared to those receiving income from the employment relationship. However, I must also mention the decommissioning at the annual rate of income which was adopted in 2019 and entered into force on 1 January of this year, which has an additional impact on the unloading of pensioners. In fact, the amount of the untaxed monthly pension on the applicable pension scale, which receives only general relief and additional general relief and does not have other incomes that add up to the annual tax base, amounts to an annual, current calculation, a thousand 129 euros. Before amendments to the 2019 Income Act, which started on 1 January this year, which included amendments both to the general and additional general ease and to the tax scale, the non-taxable part for such a pensioner amounted to approximately EUR 1 000 before that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This brings us to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. First of all, you have the floor, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, and the question will be asked to the Minister who carries out the current business, mag. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, welcome. I was wondering if you knew what you were doing at the Public Book Agency. On 20 January, a member of the Council wrote to you and warned you of irregularities. I want to know: Did you answer her or do you intend to do something about it? Not only her, but also other authorities have warned of illegality, including considerable waste in her work, but the world of the institution has not yet resolved. So I am interested in the warnings given by the board member Gabriela Babnik. Have you taken any action yet? Have you initiated procedures to investigate these irregularities? I think it's the police's job, but you have to make these proposals. And one more thing: In your opinion, is Mr Slava Pregelj and the others who have committed these irregularities suitable for the President of the Council, I will say, cover and vote against the discharge of this Director with an argument that she will improve if she violates something now, but then she will do better? Is this the right way to handle such things? Will you change the world of the institution? I know you're on your way out, but while you're still in this place, you're bound to act.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u24	Madam Member, thank you for this question. Of course, the Ministry of Culture in this case did not stand at the expense of the deadlines. Shortly after we received this letter from the members of the Council of the Public Agency of Mrs Mag. Gabriel Babnik, we have dealt in more detail with these references in this letter. So the findings are actually quite interesting. Maybe I'd go straight for it, hope that in this short time I can't do it all. The first such observation was regarding the strategic plan of the Public Book Agency. This was indeed a matter of time, of failure to meet the date limits of the adoption of the strategy and so on. Of course, even after you remember a few days ago on the Committee on Culture, also an eyewitness to the Committee on Culture on 20. 2. The problem raised by the referencer was the following: “Multidisciplinary marketing approach, which builds on the identity, reputation, consumer values or the nature of the user’s dependence (such as Disney or Japanese society).« This is, of course, taken out of context because the record referred to promotion in markets outside the EU where different market approaches are taking place. We gave an opinion on this strategy within the time limit of 4. 2. According to the information received, the JAC Council discussed 8 in its proposal for a strategy. 1. However, without any comments from the Ministry of Culture, which is in fact contrary to the law. The second is the question of doubling work scholarships. The Ministry agrees with the author of the letter that, according to the principles laid down by the Law on Public Agency, JAK must provide the conditions for excellence in the field of fine-tuning. Therefore, it is also stated in the legal provisions that two different legal tasks are to be performed by the Agency and therefore it is not a matter of duplicating, which was by the Director. The Law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia provides, inter alia, that one of the tasks of the Agency is to provide incentive conditions for high-level creators working in the field of finesse and to implement library compensation by granting work scholarships and other measures. So these are two different, these are pears and apples. Under the Librarianship Act, the library compensation is provided in two forms, as a cash contribution to the living authors of library materials for the rental of their works and work grants for creativity. That is why we have also asked the JAC to follow legal regulations. The third was the issue of renting space. This issue is multilayered and the Ministry of Culture notes, however, that JAK, as the manager of that parcel under the Real Estate Act and the Self-Governmental Local Communities, is legally entitled to lease part of the plot under the procedure laid down by the regulations, but it is at least a bit unusual that the JAK first asked to be appointed as the manager of that plot to solve the spatial problem and then part of that plot was actually leased. JAJ could lease these premises only if the operator does not need them to carry out his duties. It follows from the text of the Public Procurement Collection that the initial rent of EUR 600 per month, which is at a five-year level for which the contract is to be signed, is EUR 45 000. Under the law, the Agency is obliged to request the consent of the founder if that amount exceeds the value of EUR 10 000. And they are, of course, obliged to obtain a transitional written consent that was not available in this case. The competent authorities shall decide within 30 days on the issue of the consent required to be annexed to the legal procedure. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u25	Mr. Secretary, you've spent your time plus 15 seconds. Madam Members, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u26	Yes, a supplement and that the Minister will be able to answer the question. The fact that a long-term development strategy has not been prepared in time is, by law, a guilty reason for the Director's dismissal. What you said yourself was that she asked for new rooms, extra space for her needs, and then she gives it to her friends. That is, and that is another reason that this lady should be somewhere else today, not a director anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u27	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you. We have also asked the KPC for an opinion on this, but we have not yet received an answer. Then it is the last issue, this is the issue of drawing European money for the Frankfurt Book Fair in 2022. Of course, it is cohesion funds, where we have now tried to limit the damage caused by long-term and time-consuming procedures, somehow together with our intervention. Unfortunately, this is not the responsibility of the Minister for Culture or the Ministry of Culture. The Council, by a decision as adopted, also takes full responsibility for the follow-up, in particular as regards the operation within the legal framework. That's it, but it's huge and big, so I'll send it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This brings us to the next question. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, and the question is for Minister Mir Cerar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister! Now that we have faced a slightly higher number of applications for international protection in Slovenia in the last 5 years, we are faced with two problems in some way, one of them is political decisions, the right response to this situation, which we have already highlighted several times in Levica, and the other, of course, which is also followed by it, is a problem in conducting procedures for granting international protection. Now I'm talking about authorities, how they actually decide who's entitled, who's not. And here I would like to point out two more in the eyes of an earlier case where we estimate that, of course, not all circumstances have been taken into account. The first was Turkey. After that attempt at the coup in Turkey some time ago, the Turkish authorities branded so-called Gulenists as national enemies, terrorists. The result was more than 140 thousand Turkish citizens detained, 150 thousand teachers fired, judges, academics, scientists, doctors and so on. 3,000 educational institutions were imprisoned. 75 thousand people were taken away from their passports and so on. In short, we could still list it. Well, until recently, Slovenia considered Turkey a safe country of origin and therefore rejected Turkish asylum seekers' applications after a long 18-month resolution of their applications. At the time, the MNF based these decisions on Wikipedia articles and media articles. The same is true of Eritrea, where it is internationally recognised that there is, in fact, a country in a dilapidated state, where there is a complete disaster and, of course, it is also dangerous for its citizens. In fact, Eritrean asylum seekers also receive international protection at EU level. In Slovenia, we or the Ministry began to reject Eritrean applicants on the basis of some flat-rate assessments, where it is even stated that data cannot be obtained in the country. So it's estimated that there's no problem. Here I ask in the first place: Is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs actually preparing any analysis of the situation in third countries for its own needs? And I'm especially interested in: Is there any cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the preparation of these reports? Given that decisions regarding safe countries of origin by the Ministry of Internal Affairs are based on articles that can be found online, but not on some serious reports, for example, the International Organisation for Refugees and so on, has there been any cooperation between the MNZ and the MFZ in assessing the actual situation in the safe countries of origin?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you so much for asking. Cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is ongoing, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is involved in the procedures in the implementation phase. This is, for example, when it comes to returning these refugees or migrants, only when the decision to return by the competent authority is already legally binding and must have a competent diplomatic and consular representation, is the DKP of the home country, helping a foreigner to regulate the travel document it needs. And let me say that here our consular service, says the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, cannot or must not interfere with the legal decisions of other departments. This also applies to legal decisions on recovery, and of course individuals, as in all administrative procedures, have the possibility of using both regular and exceptional remedies and, last but not least, the possibility of judicial protection. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also analyses the situation in different countries, including Africa, including Asia, even at the edge of Europe and so on, for the needs of the Government. Of course, we do not have any specific competence to prepare reports for the Ministry of the Interior. It is very important here that this coordination takes place. However, since we have not kept any accurate records so far, when and where we have reported to the Ministry of the Interior, we are now preparing. We have not yet been able to prepare one review of this cooperation in order to get exactly this in writing. So I can only assure you that this question will be completed in writing. But I agree with you that it is extremely important that we know which country is safe, which country is dangerous, why and under what conditions we are returning someone to a country. There's got to be good coordination here. So this question of yours now encourages this analysis at the Ministry. I hope they prepare theirs for the MNR, too. And like I said, we're going to provide you with a written response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u33	Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I think it's good that this analysis is prepared as well. But I'm only interested in one more thing as a complement to the answer. If I understand you correctly, there is no self-initiativeity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to first ask the Ministry for such an analysis, if any, and if it could prepare it, on which basis could it then make an assessment of the situation? Am I getting you right?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u36	Yes, in fact, identifying which country is safe is dangerous, what are the conditions for individual applicants, this is mainly the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior and the authorities in the composition. And of course we can't interfere here, as I said, with these procedures. We are, of course, monitoring the situation in different countries from an external point of view, but we cannot follow it according to all the specifics. Nor can all countries, with the capacity given, be sufficiently entrenched. You must understand that, as I have said many times before, the ministry is very fed up with personnel and financial resources from past years and that this is only slowly starting to improve. And there's not enough money in here. And then, if one person or two or three cover more than ten countries, of course, these analyses cannot be what they would be if they had more than ten people involved. So I think that we find these things in these countries with a super-intensity work on the MZZ. However, if we get a special request from the MNZ, and it is important here that they also ask where they are specifically interested, whether the country is safe, what are the conditions of stay for children, for families, but of course we will be able to do some analysis very quickly, and then we will be able to do some analysis. This coordination needs to be encouraged, and it is so important that we now get some analysis on the basis of your question that we can see where the situation may need to be improved and where it is already good enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mag. Dejan Kaloh, you have a question for the Minister of Justice, Mrs Andrejo Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u38	President, thank you very much. Madam Minister, I would no longer have killed you in some way with my parliamentary questions, which have been many times in the context of your department, but this matter which I would like to point out has taken place in your mandate. In fact, she's been drifting all along. I am talking about the 2017 Rules of Procedure in force. Article 7 explicitly states that the court must provide free access to the data contained in the minutes via the Court’s website. This system has already been established. He never launched after that. In the case of various stakeholders, from the Information Officer, the Ministry of Justice, including the Supreme Court, the issue of the legal basis and the set of data was somehow complicated. It's been half a year now. I want to know: What did you, as a minister, do in your mandate to enforce this 7th Article of the Rules of Procedure in order to actually cut this illegal situation apart? Have you agreed with the Supreme Court about the legal basis or are you still insisting that it is regulated at a normative level? Article 17a of the Law on the Courts in the indents gives a tax ruling on which, the purpose, scope and content of these publications are already legal. What's your position? Are you more inclined to take the position of the Information Officer or of the Supreme Court? But now that your failure to act I believe you know the problem, she's actually dragged on for two and a half years. [[…]] And even those who could now see these records by law, the parties themselves in the proceedings, now online, although the Court of Justice explicitly allows them, could not, nor could the parties, let alone any other interested party. I want to know: How did you face this problem in your final term, and what did you do to make the law satisfactory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you, President. It is true, as you yourself have already stated in the question, which should have been regulated for some time now, since the Court of Justice in 2017 gave a 9-month deadline for the President of the Supreme Court to determine how to access the data from the minutes, the set of general data available and the format of their publication. This publication has not yet been published, but at this time a number of different meetings have taken place. The position of the Ministry of Justice was that it was a sufficiently precise legal basis. Then the Supreme Court felt otherwise. This was also the case with the Information Officer in his opinion. The Government's Legislative and Legal Service also said that changes should be made more widely. To cut this off, we simply agreed that the Supreme Court would prepare new starting points, which would then be incorporated into the Law on Courts. You probably know that we are in the final stage and that we have harmonised both the new law on courts and the law on judicial service. That it does not go on indefinitely, what is a sufficiently precise legal basis between the Information Commissioner, the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice and others, we have simply agreed. It is true, however, that the Supreme Court has been tasked with giving us these starting points, that we have not yet received them, that we have been waiting for quite some time to hurry several times. But given that the law is indeed in its final stage, this deadline is slowly running out, I believe that if the will of the new suit is to continue and that it will then be regulated by law and will give all the legal basis that this excuse, which I think today, is, many times also an excuse not to do something, will no longer be.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you, Madam Secretary. This brings us to the seventh question, mag. Mr Bojana Muršič for Minister of Health Aleš Šabedr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Minister! Already in the previous calendar year, and lastly also on 15 January this year, I have addressed your questions about type 1 diabetes. The first referred to the right of access of patients to free technologically advanced devices and the second to the opinion on changing the age limit for access to free sensor for diabetes patients. I didn't get that last question of your answer within 30 days. In Slovenia, about 130 people, including 70 adolescents and children, suffer from type 1 diabetes each year. The total number of patients who need at least three doses of fast insulin and at least one dose of long insulin or pump regardless of the cause of the disease, regardless of age, is around 3,000. I'm sure with this worrying statistics that people's life with disease is being hidden, many of them are being deprived of. However, the treatment of diabetes is not available to all who are dependent on insulin, but at least to children under the age of 18. Dear Minister, in your first reply, you replied to me that the increase in the age limit for access to free sensors for diabetes patients was related to the fact that partial similar proposals were made by the profession, according to the age limit, and that they would be forwarded to the Health Insurance Office to study them. [[…]] The rights of compulsory health insurance shall be extended or violated. These rules are also agreed upon by you, your Honourable Minister. Therefore, on the basis of the above, I am interested in: Has the initiative to increase the age limit for access to a free sensor been addressed at the ZZS and possibly adopted? If the initiative has not been adopted, I am interested in the reasons why not and what the answer has been given because of such a solution to the problem. However, I firmly believe that nowhere, including in the Republic of Slovenia, should the right of a child to quality health be dependent on the socio-economic status of the family in which the child grows up. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! Your Honor, thank you for asking. The initiative to increase the age limit for access to a free sensor has already been considered in the past year at the Ministry of Health and on the Management Committee of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and then adopted at the Assembly of the Institute on 8 January of this year. The rules will enter into force with 1. 6. 2020. Sensors will be available to all patients who have more than four insulin injections per day or who have an insulin pump. At that meeting, the Assembly of the Health Insurance Office adopted amendments and additions to the Compulsory Health Insurance Regulations and added other rights under this heading concerning other diseases. Maybe a little bit more detail about what this new right actually brings. The new right to a stand-alone sensory system for monitoring intercellular glucose consists of a reader with a duration of 4 years and sensors. The new right is justified by an insured person with diabetes who is able to improve glycaemic control on the basis of measurement if he has the right to an insulin pump, is treated with four or more insulin injections a day or is pregnant and is treated with insulin. The new right increases the number of sensors, up to one every seven days for an existing system for continuous measurement of intercellular glucose, which means at an annual level from the current 40 to 55 pieces per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With this, we are moving on to the eighth question of the House, with respect and respect. Mr Jožef Lenart is also Minister Aleš Šabedr. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greetings to all guests, ministers! Hello, fellow Members! Dear Minister Aleš Šabeder! The Ptuj Emergency Centre is an institution of exceptional importance for saving the lives of citizens and must cover the whole area of Lower Podravje. Residents living in the area of the old municipality of Ptuj all the way to Lenart, Zavrč and Halo municipality, as well as our municipal authorities and the current management of Ptuj Hospital know what we need – the modern emergency center Ptuj. You were at a carnival on Ptuj on Sunday. At the end of the event, you made a statement to the press that the construction of the avian emergency due to the resignation of the government should not be compromised. Why are you in doubt? Is the financial structure assured or not? The Ministry is expected to provide EUR 4 million to complete this project, which is expected to be EUR 5.1 million. I want to know: When will the construction of the modern emergency center of Ptuj begin? What's the timer? Please do not repeat the phrase as soon as it is, because your predecessor Fakin used these words already in 2018, so we are late. How's the project coming along? What exactly will be the Ptuj Emergency Center?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you for your questions, honourable Member! Of course I'll do my best to answer without any phrase. I'll try to be very specific about the emergency center on Ptuj. In view of the fact that only in mid-February did the Ptuj hospital transmit the amendment number 3 of the investment programme, the competent committee of the Ministry has not yet been identified before the document. According to the proposal for an amendment, the new investment value is EUR 5 million 680 thousand 442 and 73 centres. However, I must point out that, with the management of the hospital during my term of office, it has been agreed that the Ministry of the Construction of the Emergency Centre, in addition to the funds already provided in the budget of a good 2.5 million or an exact 2 million 549 thousand 124 euros and 23 cents, will provide an additional 1.7 million euro inflow of depreciation. However, it follows from the amendment adopted that the Ministry should provide an additional EUR 300,000 for any unforeseen work. If the competent commission of the Ministry is to assess the eligibility of the investment, as proposed in the amendment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will take a decision in accordance with the Budget Implementation Act, I suppose even this month. Following the approval of the amendment, public procurement procedures are being carried out and, somewhere at the end of the summer 2020, such hard work is expected to begin. It is envisaged that all works including supplies of equipment could be completed by autumn 2021. I will also try to explain to you the very precise sources of funding for the Emergency Centre itself. The Ministry of Health is 4 million EUR 549 thousand 41 and 64 cents. The funding source or share of the ministry is increasing from 2 million,549 thousand,124,23 euros to 4 million,549 thousand,41.63 euros. So the ministry will have to provide, in addition to 1.7 million, these additional 300,000 euros, which I mentioned earlier. General Hospital Ptuj 511,000 61 euros and 10 cents. The local community, a consortium contract of EUR 300 thousand 193. And donations from economists or economies amounting to EUR 320 thousand 146 and 99 cents. From this financial structure, which I have just given you, it follows that the funds will be provided and will also be in line with the plan for the public tender and then for the construction of the emergency room itself. I hope I've managed to give you a pretty good answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, you have a chance to complete this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your information, Mr. Shabeder. Now we know just what the assessment of our emergency center will be, after what you've said. All I care about is this: Will it be the first floor or not? In fact, the profession, leadership, somehow we all realize that a first-floor emergency centre would be urgently needed. And as for the fact that you said that this amendment had not yet been considered, then please tell me when it will be. Then I have two more questions. 440 thousand spent resources on projects that have been built so far. 150 000 additional new funds for a new project from 2019 or the end of the year. A total of 590 thousand funds spent on plans. So far, all we have is a building pit. And the next thing we talked about before, the economy and the local community together contributed 600,000. We've already spent this on projects, and it's still on the table. So I'd like you to tell me what kind of guy this is planned for now. Are you advocating that there be another floor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. As for this first floor in the emergency center, we also talked about this several times with the hospital’s management and with the expert. Of course, in the funds I mentioned in my previous reply, this first floor is not included. If a new government or a new minister decides that the first floor will also have to be built, additional funds will, of course, need to be provided. With regard to the expenditure incurred for the design and other costs that you have just mentioned, the management of the Ptuj hospital, which has also ordered these projects, will have to respond. So it wasn't the ministry, it was the Ptuj hospital, so it's very difficult for me to tell you what the content was and why this amount of resources was spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to the ninth question. Mag. Dusan Verbic, you have a question for Minister Rudi Medved. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Mr Minister, as you know, since August last year there has been a debate on the establishment of the provinces launched by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and representative associations of local communities. However, the law drawn up by the Council of State or the professional service in operation and the group within its framework provides that the province shall carry out the tasks of State jurisdiction which are determined by law and which relate to various administrative tasks. The implementation of the tasks performed by administrative units in the province will be transferred to the provinces by law. The debate on the competence of future provinces cannot go beyond the question of one or twofold. That's why I want to know: Are you more in favour of a two-tier system under which administrative units will still belong in the domain of the State or executive branch of government, or are you in favour of a single system of the province in which we will receive local heads and heads of provincial administration units? Both models have advantages as well as weaknesses. First of all, I'm interested in the question: How can both systems ensure both legality and stability and, of course, the effectiveness of administrative units or units of the provincial administration? As Minister, you are now responsible for coordinating the functioning of administrative units, such as personnel, finance, material equipment and the like. One of the key functions is certainly the appointment of chiefs of administrative units. On the basis of the above, I am therefore interested in: How do you see, as a competent minister, the placement of 58 administrative units in the provincial administration knowing that the latter will not be responsible for administrative internal affairs? What will happen to officials in the highest positions or to the management of these? I would also like to ask: What happens to the frequent exchange of officials in positions in the largest administrative unit in the country, this is the Ljubljana Administrative Unit? If I can get ahold of this last question: Is the adoption of an act on the internal organisation of the EU Ljubljana an ongoing business that can be confirmed by a government which is resigning? For this basic act is very important in the implementation of processes as well as in the exercise of the powers of the public administration. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u56	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of the Parliament, of course! Allow me, Mr Member, to begin my answer with the most current issue and perhaps later to focus further on the relationship between the provinces and the administrative units. However, I would like to make some clarifications regarding the administrative unit of Ljubljana. In fact, when I arrived at this Ministry, I was faced with a decision to move the Ljubljana Administrative Unit to one location for Bežigrad. With those tied up, because the former Minister, your Minister, has made a decision, I still think it is unwise for all administrative matters to be disposed of, literally, of a single location for Bežigrad with 10 parking spaces, i.e. that residents, residents of Ljubljana and the hinterland carry out administrative matters at the same location. Of course, all the contracts were signed at the time, including the deadlines for administrative units to empty the premises where they operate today. In the meantime, we have postponed this move in part twice for construction and administrative reasons. Of course, I did not have the opportunity or with a team of associates to consider whether this decision was even wise and smart, since so basically all the contracts were signed and, of course, any other decision would also constitute a compensation action. That's how we get what we got now. 15 April is now the date again when the Ljubljana Administrative Unit is to move to one location. Perhaps the only advantage is that we were able to provide the premises for the Slovenian Emigration Matrix and the World Slovenian Congress, which was put on the road by Banka Slovenije in the middle of last year because of its plans for the renovation of the premises and then we looked for alternative spaces. What I asked for from these plans, and for now, unless the future government decides otherwise, is that because we will now have more than 300,000 people directing everything to regulate at one location, that in these locations where the Ljubljana Administrative Unit is now operating, however, there will remain offices where people will be able to handle the most basic things when dealing with the country, so that there will not be all the pressure on Linhart for Bežigrad. And we have managed to secure these premises so far. Of course, this move also entails a new systemisation, and the Chief of Administration has also prepared this new system. However, organizationally there is a different way of working the administrative unit at this location. It is true, however, that in view of the extent of this systemisation, I have concluded that this is not an ongoing government business and that the Chief of Staff should prepare this system, but that it should be decided by the future government, which may decide otherwise on this move. Me, we were, as we say, prisoners of what was waiting for us on the table, and the Ljubljanaers will, of course, once they are aware of what they were cooking in 2017, be very happy when they are all snorkeling around Bežigrad with ten parking spaces in the front. No one, but there was really no frequent change of leadership or officials in the Ljubljana administrative unit. Three exchanges were at the level of medium management, two last year and one, I think, in January, everything in the light of the improvement in the situation at Tobacco, where we have and in the future there will be problems due to the large number of foreign affairs. Even the chiefs of administrative units, if you've been monitoring my mandate, of course I haven't changed. 58 in Slovenia, I did not change them, although the law allows the minister otherwise, because it is easy [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Members, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Initially, Mr Minister, I thank you very much and I say that you have decided very wisely that this is not an ongoing business. However, I strongly agree with you that this matter is not so uniform, because this part of the work of the administrative authority through the Administrative and Home Affairs Sector is really so complex and demanding, as practical services to customers are being offered daily, and from 400 to 1,000 500 parties, which is amazing, even in the face of massive changes in personal documents. I will not go into this, I agree with this and commend your decision that you have not made a final decision on the basic act. It is certainly necessary to recognise that it is also necessary to cut into this segment at various times and that nothing would be wrong if, as the competent minister, we also decided to make a change, as you have said, because it is essential that in the public sector, at least in the state administration, it is necessary to follow the so-called modern management and management approach, which is sometimes at the levels of the so-called top positions, that officials are said to be in a position, at least to the directors of directors or principals or supervisors, to start moving from line management to the so-called target leadership. Just a few words about the one- or two-tier system of landscapes, and I'd just like to ask you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you very much. As it is said, I did not change the chiefs of administrative units for a simple reason, because I think that administrative units in Slovenia are doing great in their entirety, our first contact with citizens and citizens, as well as the responses of citizens and citizens to the quality of services provided by administrative units, are very good. This idea that the administrative units would somehow adopt the provinces and move them all to the provinces without even strategically considering what powers they would take with them, it seemed to me to tell you at home, a little bit more than a schnapps idea, and never had such ideas before. We've been building the administration system for 30 years, and we've built it well. I am not saying that it is impossible to rationalise, although the crisis itself has so affected this area that, I think, about 800 employees in administrative units are less than they were before the crisis, and we have not replaced these jobs. Administrative units are also well organised. The information system, which, when it came to the Ministry, was limping to the point that people were working with 20-year-old computers, we are now updating this information system, and I believe that this update will continue. In any event, the dismantling of such a system without a clear strategy of what the provinces are supposed to do in the future would, of course, be a shot to the knee for this country. I'm sure of that. Once we open up a debate on what the jurisdiction of the province is, not without drawing first, I don't know, 10, 12 landscapes, because we think so well, without considering what these provinces will do, but to start a serious discussion of the jurisdiction of the provinces, then of course it will also be possible to see which tasks that the administrative units are doing now could be carried out. I'm sure there's a few of them. However, I think that disassembly of the entire system would certainly mean nothing good, especially for those whose administrative units they are, and these are citizens and citizens who are offered their services by these administrative units.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are on the 11th question of the House of Representatives. Mr. Miha Kordish, for the minister of Mr. Aleš Šabedr, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. The abolition of supplementary health insurance is one of the priority themes for us in Levica, a priority area to be taken care of in the Slovenian public health system. Why would I do that? I wouldn't do that again. The last interventions to supplementary health insurance have unfortunately fallen under this mandate. However, at the 15th regular meeting of the National Assembly, this was in January, there was one thing that might have occurred to most citizens and citizens who had escaped from the view, and we were beginning to wonder in Levica. In fact, during the consideration of the abolition of supplementary health insurance, Minister Aleš Šabeder waved with a new law on health care and health insurance. He also cited the following: “In this proposal of the law, there are only certain political decisions that would lead to a coalition.” End of quote. This information seemed relevant to us in Levica, and that is why we took advantage of the possibility that all citizens and citizens have – access to information of a public nature. Your answer, Mr. Minister, from your Ministry was the law of 2017, and you added the explanation that the law with which you waved existed only as a working material and that you cannot give it any further. I would therefore simply ask you for an explanation: Do you have or do not have a new law on health care and health insurance? And if you have it, why can't the public see it? And if ye have not it, with what was it that ye waved before us a good month? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. I'll try to give you a wider answer. At the Ministry of Health, we are essentially obliged to prepare each year a set of regulations that we want to propose to the National Assembly for adoption. In this case, we are also talking about the so-called normative programme of the Government's work. In addition to the document adopted annually by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Health for 2019 and 2020 adopted a programme of work of the Ministry of Health, which defined other key and systemically important projects in addition to legislative priorities. At the Ministry of Health during my term of office, i.e. from April 2019 to January 2020, we have drawn up various draft laws: the law on communicable diseases, the law on long-term care, the law on health care and health insurance, the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Patients' Rights, the law on mental health, the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the integrated early treatment of preschool children with special needs and the law on amendments and supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products. One of these, this is the law on patient rights, was already under public scrutiny and three laws would be under public scrutiny in the spring months, these are the law on long-term care, the law on health care and health insurance, and the law on mental health. All these materials will, of course, make it much easier for me to continue working on these extremely important content. As regards your specific question regarding the law that I showed in the National Assembly at the meeting that addressed the abolition of supplementary health insurance, the draft Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which is in preparation. As I said at the time, he lacks only a few political decisions to bring the matter to a close and then to a public hearing or during coalition coordination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman. We are interested in this law in Levica because we want to continue working on the abolition of supplementary health insurance, as well as on any other content contained in the Health and Health Insurance Act. You, Mr Minister, waved with this law in January, if you do, you have it, and you just reconfirmed that it should lack only political will in the coalition. However, when we asked you in Levica to provide us with this law to look at it, you rejected us with the following legal statement: “The data from the document which is in the process of making and is still subject to consultation in the body and its disclosure would lead to a misinterpretation of its contents, but it is such a document that it is not given further.” But you, Mr. Minister, have at the same time claimed or still claim that this law lacks only political decisions. What's true now? With what law have you waved during the treatment of the termination of supplementary health insurance, and with this waving law have you justified opposition to what we brought to the table in Levica — that is, that supplementary insurance is definitively abolished in a way that is mandatory? Was it just some kind of camera dramaturgy that would underpin your supposed commitment to abolish supplementary health insurance and, in fact, a political strategy to break Left's initiative? How, then, can such a law be information that is still subject to consultation in the body? Or should we take you seriously, Mr. Minister, is this a matter of political consultation within the Ministry? Does this mean that there are no experts at the Ministry, but there are only politicians who coordinate? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u68	Your Honor, you yourself have read the decision of the information officer, why the law is not being dealt with in the way you wanted. Here I have this same decision that you read, so you've already answered yourself. But as for the playwright, you just pulled it out, not me. In my address to this High Council, I made it clear that I do not object to the abolition of supplementary health insurance. However, since the first moment of my term of office, the Ministry of Health has advocated an integrated approach to solving, and I think that my sentence has been kind of in style – you can check the magnetogram – since this was a bill of departure, of course you are the Members who take responsibility and vote in accordance with your beliefs at this meeting. So there certainly wasn't any deception you're trying to get into right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you. You have a chance to procedurally, even though you know what the probability is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you, Chairman. I know what the probability is, but I would like to draw the line under my question and the answer given by Mr Šabeder. The abolition of supplementary health insurance has collapsed in a thousand and one ways. Some of the parties contributed openly, slightly more discreetly and incoherently, while at the same time they swore to the cameras that they were for the abolition of supplementary health insurance, for a solidarity transfer to compulsory insurance and so on. One of the elements of this abolition of supplementary health insurance was the intervention of Minister Šabedr at the 15th regular meeting of the National Assembly on 29 January, when he waved at the practical design of the new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance and lacked political will. Of course, we were in Levica, and we are still interested to see whether this law can be further worked on, or how it can be further used, improved, corrected and so on. But when it came to getting this law in my hands, following the rules of access to public information, we received an answer from the Ministry of Health that this was some kind of work material. While the minister explained to the cameras that it was practically a done thing, that they had everything in order, only political will is lacking. We can't follow good faith here because I can't see it because I don't believe it. That is why I would like to have a general debate. Even if the government changes, this area will not remain closed. We can expect pressure from the right after further commercialisation of health insurance, which is now public, and additional pressure from the privatisation of health care. This law is important, we want it, and we want to see what we can do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have made a procedural proposal, which will be voted on Thursday in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to question 12. Mr. Boris Doblekar, you have the floor for Minister Simon Rabbit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members, Members, representatives of the Government and, above all, the distinguished Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Zajc! Lately or for several years, since 2006, we have been facing one such big, pressing problem in the area of waste collection and management, recently with waste municipal mud. Never before has the state taken a serious approach to some systemic arrangements, some solutions that would ensure order in this area in the long term. Some regional centres were established, somewhat in harmony with the decisions of individual municipalities, following the decisions of individual municipalities, to unite and establish regional centres that act in their own way, otherwise in accordance with legislation, but nevertheless. The waste packaging is by utilities and at these regional centres thousands of tons, so you are probably familiar with it. I'm interested in accurate information: What is the current situation in the area of waste management throughout the country? Lately, a great problem, when we were building central cleaning plants, which is of course positive and welcome, is finally also in this area, especially in the good ecology and health of humans and animals and nature itself, something has only been done after that long period of socialism, when we were actually working with garbage like a pig with fur, according to our own words when we put them in nature, when nothing was done on this, where Europe was long before us. [[…]] Waste municipal mud also accumulates through municipal cleaning facilities, full containers. Hungary no longer takes it. I also want to know: Where with the waste municipal mud? What is the strategy that the state will do in this area to solve this big, very pressing issue? We know that there are many ways to deal with waste municipal mud, and I would like to hear it from your mouth, so by the minister, the ministry, as you see in the future solving these two major problems, that is, waste packaging and waste municipal mud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you for saying, thank you for asking. Today I will have two questions on this subject, and so far I have answered this many times, so I will not repeat some things, why such a situation has occurred, how these problems have accumulated and how they have been resolved so far, why there has not been any other decision, because this is not important at this point. You have rightly found that we have two problems, one bigger one – for the other now it appears to be slightly smaller – which must first be temporarily solved and then set up a system that will work in the long run. A system that will not allow itself to be played that will not allow for the various abuses of the country as possible now. Let's go first to the topic of waste municipal mud. When Hungary decided to change its mud import policy, of course, the problem began with us because at home we do not have the appropriate infrastructure to deal with mud from municipal cleaning plants. Until then, everything worked well, in fact, we were able to export it very cheaply, and that was fitting for everyone. It suited us to the users because it was not detectable at the points of view, at least not in high amounts, to the mayors, because there was no need to raise municipal services, the operators of municipal cleaning facilities, because this problem had been solved cheaply, there was no need to invest in the drying infrastructure and so on, but now this has stopped. As soon as this was started, when I was informed as Minister, of course, I took action on the temporary solution, which I still see as the fastest in terms of a transitional period or a solution that for a year and a half, we remain able to export this mud. That is why, first of all, my visit to Hungary, then a call or a letter of inquiry to all other ministers, and we also received some positive responses, so that we can go this way. In addition, certain export contracts have already been concluded. We already have applications to export this mud to other countries. Until we've completed these procedures, I'm not going to comment on them too much, so I won't do anything too soon. But as it now shows, and according to our research we are talking about about about about 30 to 40 thousand tons of mud, which is now being shown – I hope something does not go wrong – that this solution will come to pass. But this will be a temporary solution, for a year, for two years, and then it will be necessary to find the same as the rest of the waste for a mud solution in our home. What are the options, we know. If we want to use it in agriculture, it means that we need to solve some problems at our source, so better control over the fact that mud will be as clean as possible so that it can be used in agriculture. This, again, is control – we know what the problem with the number of inspectors is – that we will also strictly monitor industrial wastes, which then go to joint utilities to solve this problem. Then we'll have to set up the drying infrastructure, it's an investment again. Where there are smaller utility cleaners, they probably won't go into this alone, so they'll have to connect more together. And, in my opinion, we will not avoid or it would be pointless to avoid putting a mono-incineration plant on mud itself, even conscious of the future, so that phosphorus can be obtained from it later when the technology is good enough for a greater scale, then this phosphorus can be re-extended and reused. It's about the waste pack. On the basis of the three-partite contracts in 2018, we took almost 22,000 tonnes of waste packaging under the intervention law. What hurts me most is that when we sent an inspection for 2018 to look at the companies dealing with the waste packaging – that it looked a little bit more closely at what these companies were doing, how much money they had really taken and how much packaging they had taken away – they found that they had collected more money than they had taken away, for about 3 million euros. The inspection, of course, based on these findings, has filed criminal charges as to how these proceedings will end, we will see. But that's the problem. This is what I said at the outset – the current system leaves too much room for various machinations. This has proved to be true in this case. We will see where these procedures will lead to, and what conclusions. In the current situation, we are in the stage where we need to put in place a new system, which we have already prepared, then the new minister will decide whether this system that we have envisioned will also be put into ZVO-1K [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] We will, won't we? I'm gonna stop for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, Your Honor, for your explanations and your answers. I am deeply saddened that as serious societies as these companies are supposed to be to deal with waste packaging, they are working in such a way that they are not actually taking the money away from the packaging. It's a disaster. This finding surprised me very much and made me sad. As far as we are concerned, of course, the congregations have done their duties, our duties. We have built central cleaning plants, and even smaller municipal cleaning facilities are being built, which would be very necessary and uplifting if there were any incentives from the country. We citizens do our job when we pay the bills for the garbage, for the utilities, and they're getting bigger. They're getting bigger, they're getting taller. We still don't have the incinerator. We have so many good practices abroad, except for one non-governmental organization and, I would say, only pre-existing behavior concerning ecology – of course, because we have now moved from some mess to some perfect order, we are not used to building such an incinerator. There's no consensus. In Denmark, for example, 40 % of electricity is generated from incinerated waste; in Germany, they are already thinking and having legislation adopted for the elimination of phosphorus, which is 2 % in waste; then they are fertilising soils with waste mud and so on. We can get gas out of this. In short, there are a bunch of things that can be used to produce this mud. Of course, it has to be dried up first and so on. I am really asking for a few more answers, as you can see, that in the future we will actually solve this great mystery that is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr Minister – I think, Mr Member. Mr. Secretary, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u78	Maybe he's the future minister, and he's gonna deal with it. How we have now set ourselves up in this period. I'm talking about municipal waste packaging now. This week we will prepare an amendment to the Waste Packaging Regulation, which will not be an intervention, but will be a transitional period until the new law enters into force or until the new regime adopts. It would be good if the amendments to the law were adopted as soon as possible, since we are already late with one transposition of the directive, it should be transposed by October, and the latter should be in July. So this law is ready. When the new minister is appointed, he will be able to decide whether or not he will follow this path. The new system will ensure that manufacturers have to organise their own organisations and will no longer be as on the market as it is now, as this has also led to these problems and, in addition to some other control deficiencies, the data collection itself. But at this point, we will be preparing an amendment to the regulation that will ensure that this situation is not passed on to citizens, so that it will not go through the tables at their burden, but that this burden will still be borne by the State through the producers. We will amend the regulation in such a way as to reintroduce three-partite contracts, which means that the state will pay for transport, the municipality will make a public order, and directly to the waste processors. This cost will then be transferred to the budget through environmental duty, by removing the packaging, in our proposal, in this part. So one burden is less for businesses, and the other one, which will, however, adapt to it, already exists. In this way, I am counting on this transitional period, which will be allowed until 2023, to work without intervention laws, without intervention changes to regulations, without raising citizens' rates on this account. However, it should be borne in mind that if we set up a system of conduct at home and with mud and packaging, this will still be somewhat familiar with the positions, as this system will have to be set up. Now, of course, it was cheaper to drive out, but that's it, you have to be aware of that. If we want to handle waste responsibly, of course, this is also known on the shelf itself. However, if we are as successful at reducing the very occurrence of waste as we want to be, then, over the years, this cost will also fall, so that we will all, from producers to countries, be encouraged to produce as little waste as possible, because this will also be known for price.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Question 13. Dr. Franc Trček, you have a question for Minister Zdravek Restorska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary! The fact that you personally want a national tourist holding company is well known. It is also known that the outgoing Prime Minister of the 13th Government somehow said: "Well, since I gave everyone what I would like, I gave Restoration this tourist holding at one of the last meetings, but I prefer to go to bed with Janša." End of quote. So that I don't be theatrical, unlike the others, I'll quote. One gentleman, whom we all know well, Mr Bogdan Lipovšek, who led the Grand Hotel Union for almost a quarter of a century, says that it is about the design of the Slovenian tourist holding company, quote: “For the dangerous work of Minister Počvalška, who treats Slovenian tourism as his prey.” His professional blog also states that there are no clear reasons why he explained about the tourism development strategy that the issue of division of activities and property ownership is potentially conflicting. In a longer thought, Darinka Pavlič says, quote: the plan of the state tourism holding is not a gift to citizens; SDH is currently waiting for AVK to grant him the takeover of Term Olimia, where you were a long-standing director, which will cost the country 8.5 million; 40% of the purchase from the York Fund is again 50 million; there is also the issue of concentration of ownership, in short, for the Competition Agency. And he concludes his thinking like this, quote: “Healing Restoration received a very large, rich, generous but also a complex gift. Undoubtedly, this provides jobs for him and many reliefs in the long run. But before all of this is resolved and understood, the services will be looking for generations who are going to kindergarten today." End of quote. I also have a life experience in tourism, setting up a successful family company, and I know what it means to have too much concentration, monopolies, oligopolies, when this company, in fact, with hotel room prices, jumps into the prices of apartments in Kranjska Gora. After a lost decade for Slovenian tourism, which was clearly stated in 2018 on the Days of Slovenian Tourism, after most of the indicators we stayed there where we were in 2008, we ask the question: Is the state tourist holding really the way to Slovenian tourism, Mr. Restovalšek? Even if I put aside some of your personal preferences for prey, if I paraphrase the gentleman mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u82	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Member Dr. Franz Runczek, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! This gift you are talking about is a gift to Slovenian tourism, not about Zdravek Počvalšku. But I'll try to explain. Two years ago, the government adopted the Strategy for the Sustainable Growth of Slovenian Tourism, where we ambitiously set a number of quantitative and qualitative goals that we want to achieve by 2021. Quantitative targets are linked to the growth of the tourism economy and productivity, with which we would like to generate €4 billion inflows from foreign tourism and increase the number of jobs for tourist economic activities. The quality objectives are related to strengthening competitiveness, the visibility of Slovenian tourism as a five-star destination, green, active and healthy tourism in international markets. We want to achieve these objectives in a scenario of accelerated sustainable development with accelerated investment in basic tourism infrastructure and in improving the operation of tourist companies in destinations. For the competitiveness and satisfactory productivity of Slovenian tourism, it is important to first ensure the proper and professional management of the hotel portfolio, both owned by the country and privately owned. An important owner of tourist companies and therefore tourist capacity is also a Slovenian country. However, ownership and management is dispersed among several state owners or operators. Thus, the country can directly influence the achievement of the objectives of its tourism strategy with ownership levers, which is the sustainable growth and competitiveness of Slovenian tourism. However, such a goal can only be achieved by means of state-owned levers if, in the first step, state ownership or management is concentrated in one place. Consolidation of the ownership of state-owned tourism companies is therefore very important and, on the other hand, this is the first step leading to the achievement of the shared objectives of sustainable growth of Slovenian tourism. By consolidating ownership, we want to achieve a number of objectives, which lead to deliberate privatisation. And now most important. In Slovenia, 70% of the tourist accommodation capacity or hotels owned by the country and saying that we support tourism makes no sense, since all that is the subject of possible future concentrated management is already state-owned. However, the country cannot be the long-term owner of tourist companies or hotels, as this is contrary to the market economy for which we have identified ourselves. We must therefore approach privatisation in a strategic way and first increase the value of tourism capacity. This will be done by optimizing their management, reducing costs and improving business results. The adoption of an annual capital investment management plan for 2020 is one step towards this. The 2020 Annual Management Plan is essential for the implementation of the statutory SDH tasks and not only for the consolidation and restructuring plan of state tourism companies, which is an integral part of the specific part of the annual management plan. It would be extremely irresponsible to sell Slovenian hotels too fast, too cheap or too bad for the owner, what was the goal when they were on SDH under Swedish leadership, the sole purpose of which would be speculative nature. The restructuring of state-owned tourist companies and possible later privatisation will be carried out responsibly and in the interests of the first country, businesses and employees in these companies and ultimately for the benefit of Slovenian tourism. It's about not moving anything, not giving it to anyone. These hotels and these state capacities will only be better managed by the state. But Dr. Restoring doesn't have to buy any monuments. He's got plenty of options. After the end of this term, he will not deal with these matters. Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u84	People who are well acquainted with this area say that there are a lot of nebulos that are not identifiable in this speech about the strategy. You know, a five-star thing, a green thing and so on. Even the most untalented Members and Members of Parliament from that previous reference to the great SMC have learned to say “from our quotas”. Like you said, Mr. Restoring, it goes something like this. We'll be the masters of how it's gonna go down if it's sold and sold. In that part about the former composition of Sweden, I agree with you, because at the time we met in Maribor on this subject. One of the whistleblowers from your ministry has literally shown the gentleman you're hiding for 15 minutes. And there were things that go more in the direction, who will concrete something, which is obviously the intellectual range of Slovenia today, and we can talk about the urgents, we can talk about tourism or almost anything that a little cousin will concrete something. After all, when we put all this together, we are asked a serious question whether it would be better to invest in something else, which is a nice amount of money, which is likely to reach at least some budget of the Maribor Municipality, which I come from. After all, you also have Mrs Angeliko Mlinar in the government, and you might ask yourself a little, because you yourself know that if you were Slovenian liberals, you would not be doing such a terrible concentration, but actually regionally deploying it, as in Austria and as recommended by people who get to know these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u86	I can only add that you have mixed pears, apples, bricks, cement and grammes, and from this I cannot say anything else clever, as if if you look at the figures of Slovenian tourism, they are growing, they have also advanced on this state work, that we are not competitive surroundings and that those village counselors you quote had a chance to do something about it, and everyone has left tourism and now they are smart about things. Everything written in these papers around the annual management plan and strategy is verifiable and has its results. If they're nebulosis for someone, they're nebulosis, but the numbers on the ground confirm that they're not. We are approaching EUR 4 billion in revenues from foreign tourism, we are already at 17 million overnight stays, and I hope that these last stories will not overwhelm them. Once again, I expect that the country will be responsible for this 70% of the hotel's tourist capacity and that the spoils of those who have given you advice on this issue will not be. And they won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u88	Dear Mr Restoration, as Angelika Mlinar would say, I am talking to everyone, but it is not necessary for me to take them into account, something like that. If I paraphrase you, I don't have counselors, I just have a serious triangulation. Beyond these numbers, which you are quoting, is one very simple question: do people who work in Slovenian tourism – because tourism is a garage, which we both know very well, work after 16, 17 hours a day – can they live decently or not? No, no, no. Slovenian tourism, as you yourself said, is not competitive, is not profitable enough and people living there will have such a pension that they will not be able to afford lunch, let alone stay in hotels or hostels. I come from the Left, and I have to write here – but we're not sure what, and people are radical left-wing fascists, as your future coalition partner will like to say – that it's such a concentration that it's actually unhealthy. I didn't think of it, no matter what, even if, I don't know, Micah Kordish wanted to bury it, he'd actually be against it. After all, you appear to be in control of this sector for eight years. I'm not worried about where you're going to end up, as I'm not worried about myself, but the task of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, coming out of the Constitution, is that economic development goes on so that people can live with it with dignity. Too many people who work in tourism cannot live a decent life. Even professional life I deal with measurements, I'm a pretty well-trained social methodology, and in these strategies, not just this one, there are just too many unmeasured nebulos, these are in fact, and some common cities, empty cities. This is, after all, recognized by certain people in tourism who are closer to you than I am if this is how we need to talk. That is why, of course, I propose, Mr President-in-Office of the National Assembly – who has been well-managed by the National Assembly, I must admit, I also had good relations with you as Chairman of a very demanding committee, which also revolves around 4 billion – that we should have a general discussion on this very important subject, because, after all, this will have to be paid from state money. At the same time, we, as Members and Members of this document, do not see him hiding. Because you, Mr Restorsek, have said about another matter that we have nothing in public to explain anything. Of course, I do not want such a policy as a citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you, Member, for your procedural proposal. We'll vote on Thursday. At the same time, thank you for the beautiful words that are rarely heard in politics. And let it be the case, I myself have worked well with you as Chairman of the very serious committee you run. With this, honourable Members, we turn to question 14. Mr Matjaž Germany will address two ministers, Mr Simon Zajc and Dr Aleksandro Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u90	Dear Madam Minister, distinguished Minister, good afternoon! I am addressing you with a question that has been well known to the general public for more than a decade, at least since I have been in Parliament or for at least the last five years I have been actively engaged in this direction myself. In recent years, especially from 2017, 2018, 2019 to today, relevant movements have taken place in this area, we are talking about the Accumulation Lake Vogršček and the network. My job is to monitor the events and ask you how they're going. Over the past months and years, many discussions, round tables, no questions and initiatives have been made in this regard and some important agreements have been reached with local communities. In 2018, an important agreement was signed on behalf of the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Agriculture on the transfer of network management rights to local communities. In this area, I believe that a list of land by the Agricultural Land Fund is currently under way. On the other hand, they were both present when they signed a contract with a construction worker who was to begin the barrier repair immediately after they were Ministers of Mag. In 2018, Irena Majcen and Irena Majcen provided financial resources for the implementation of this important project, not only for Primorska, but not only for the Vipavska Valley, not only for the narrower Goriška, but I think that the need for agriculture to be preserved in this area, in the light of the importance of climate change. Expectations are very high. Dear Minister, my first question is: At what stage is the first part, i.e. the transmission of the network to the local community? The municipalities have committed themselves in the interest of managing this network. In the first week of this year, they signed a contract with the construction worker, as far as I know, the building permit has not yet been issued. In this first part, I also want to know: When can we expect a building permit? However, I will continue to touch on the possible development of tourism and sports activities at this facility. Your Honor, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dear Minister, someone will answer first. Dr. Aleksandra Beerc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u92	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr German! As far as the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is concerned, it has been actively engaged in this for a long time. You yourself have listed what has happened in the past in this area. In 2007, the system-wide error was identified and the rehabilitation was committed to the renewal of Vogršče glass. The key agreement was actually signed in 2018, namely 5. 1. and at that time it was also agreed to approach, in cooperation with local communities, the transfer of property rights and later the maintenance itself and the management by key municipalities belonging to an area from which irrigation could then also be covered for the irrigation system originating from Vogršček. It is true that financial resources have been provided by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Environment and Space. In the initial phase, this division was planned to be 85% on our part, 15% on the part of the Ministry of Environment and Space, but I believe that you are aware that in the middle of the values have increased tremendously, i.e. EUR 4.5 million to around EUR 9 million, and that this missing part, i.e. 3.8 million, still provides the Ministry of Agriculture and the missing portion of up to 9 million will be provided by the Ministry of Environment and Space or Water Fund. As far as the beginning of the works is concerned. We have indeed signed or co-signed a contract for the start-up of works in January, between the water director of the Directorate and between the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and at the same time it is agreed that, at the time the construction works begin, we will also join the signing of the transfer of ownership rights of management and of course of maintenance. It may also be added that in that agreement signed in 2018, at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we have also committed ourselves to providing for this purpose the funds to be used to renovate the entire irrigation system and also to extend the system. For, as we know, there was also a desire to extend to the northern leg, where at least two more congregations from that part were joining. These funds will therefore be provided under the Rural Development Programme. As has already been said, it will then immediately approach the transfer of ownership rights. As for the works themselves, performances and construction permits, I suggest that the Minister responds, because this part belongs under their auspices.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u94	The application for a building permit was submitted but was not complete. At this point, according to my information, we're waiting for it to be completed, somewhere in 10 days we're expecting this supplement. Then a building permit shall be issued, and 30 days shall be pending jurisdiction, if there is no court dispute at that time, then this is it and it begins with parts. From the moment it starts with parts – we are counting somewhere in the middle of May – it is then scheduled for about 18 months to complete all these works. As far as I know, all the land has already been bought out, so there are no other obstacles, except to obtain a legal building permit, for the very beginning. The funds are reserved, so we wait for the supplement and then for the 30 days to expire the deadline for the complaints.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Member of Parliament wishes to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you very much, very much for your answer. I must say that, at the end of this term, I thank you for your constructive cooperation in this mandate. My question, in particular on the timeline, is no coincidence, because both will most likely be in the future government, so it is my intention to actually update this issue when the new government arrives. Years ago, when we were in the local community, or I will say in politics, those coming from Primorska, focused on this issue, we set three goals: one is to rebuild the barrier, the other is to rebuild and transfer the ownership structure of the network to the local community, and the third is to develop new activities, here mainly about sports activities, about tourism. In Slovenia we know quite a few examples of artificial accumulation lakes or areas where they were able to enter some other activities. Let me mention that we have received no sports events, including music events, in the very Accumulation Lake Vogršček in the past. At least two municipalities, if not three, especially the Municipality of Nova Gorica, Municipality of Ajdovščina and Municipality of Renče - Vogrsko, have shown the intention to develop other activities on this common lake of accumulation. I am talking here mainly about sport, as has already been said, and tourism. I would like to see this battle together in the future, because we know that many times the implementation of certain new activities in the area in the Republic of Slovenia is very difficult. That's why I'm already announcing and calling on you, to the best of your ability, so that, by a healthy farm of intelligence, if I may say so, we can understand that co-existence between man and nature and animals is possible. My proposal, therefore, is that you also engage in this direction in the future in order to be able to carry out certain other activities on this accumulation lake, which are not directly related to agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you. It wasn't a direct question, it was a direct question. In Slovenia we have quite a few accumulations that are multi-purpose. They are usually built for one basic purpose and then added new purposes. These new objectives can, of course, also be added in this case. Let me say that the very restoration of this accumulation does not alter the purpose of this accumulation. It is primarily for agricultural purposes and is also intended to prevent the harmful effects of water operation. Anything else is also possible, of course, but if it is possible to carry them out without reaching for the original purpose, irrigation. If such activity does not make it worse or impossible, all of this is, of course, possible, especially if the congregations are interested. However, such a change or additional purpose of such accumulation requires our ministry's agreement, taking into account the nature and other limitations that may exist there. So I am sure that if local communities are interested, such a multi-purpose use will be possible, taking into account the limitations that may be there, at this point I do not know them, and, of course, with the consent of our Water Directorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you also wish [[…]] [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador? [[No, no, ……]] Let's move on. Mateja Udovč will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, who carries out ongoing operations, mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, in my office in Kranj, I was visited by an indignant citizen with a request to assist him in the matter, in what way you can send mail to the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Infrastructure Directorate, as his mail sent through Post Slovenia was refused by the Ministry and the authorities in the compositions. After returning to the sender's address with the label that the addressee does not want to accept it. I have proof here, too. And it's not just one mail, it's a number of envelopes that were addressed to the right addresses. Here I am concerned that the Regulation on administrative operations in Article 35 clearly provides for the receipt of mail, namely: “Email addressed to the body, the main office of acquisition, opening, reviewing and recording the documentary material through the information system for the management of documentary material records.” That's why I'm asking you: Under what rules and regulations do you have a system of acceptance of written and other shipments? Is it a matter of accepting recommended letters of discretion, which you will take over and which you will not? Do you reject mail based on its alleged content? Are you refusing mail on the basis of the sender or the person who sent it? Are you checking the contents of mail without opening them? How do you react in cases where, due to the refusal of receipt of mail, there is a delay in the time limits of official procedures? How do you react when you refuse to take over the mail to damage investors? Your ministry and the authorities in the composition are very often carrying out various administrative procedures, public procurements which can be complained of within the prescribed time limit, in writing or orally on the record. The question that comes to mind in all this is: How can a person complain to you in writing if your ministry or authorities do not take over mail? In all of this, I am afraid, the question is that this is not a lonely case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Madam Member, if you would have told me in advance who the consignor is, you could have checked what was going on with these shipments. Now we're talking in this room. You didn't say the name or last name or the company you're asking for. And even if you asked me today, I can't answer because I'm not actually sitting in the main office and opening the mail. As with all other bodies, the Ministry of Infrastructure is also subject to the Regulation on Administrative Operations, where everything is very precisely specified. Hundreds of shipments, letters, applications, as you said, are being received by the Ministry of Infrastructure, so it would be significantly better if, even if by telephone, we were to be contacted, if you did not want to publicly expose people, we checked that I could verify what was on it. I'm sure our employees are doing what they have to. If not, of course, the superiors, and in the end themselves, should act. So, what can I say to you, rather than asking me to do this to me or to my successor or heir, and they will, as a member of the National Assembly, certainly get an answer. But we can't put charges against employees on a flat-rate basis at the Ministry of Infrastructure, and at least me. Once again, I don't sit in the main office, I don't open the mail, and probably my successor or heir won't do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I don't expect you to open your mail either. But this is the work of the main office. We both know that very well. Nor was it here was the case brought by the citizen, which was also recorded here. [[…]] The name and surname of this person are not important, but it is important that they do not accept all the mail at your Ministry. That's the problem. And the fact that they don't accept it, you also have it in the records in your courier books, because you had to come back, and it's also been recorded, and pay the mail for the return to the sender. On the basis of my question, which you may have seen no later than Friday, you could check in the main office to see if they comply with the Regulation on Administrative Operations. Therefore, this case does not apply here, but I would point out that it is unacceptable that the postal ministries sent to the Ministry or to the authorities in the Ministry are not fully taken over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u106	The honourable Member, so flattened, I'll say, mud on all the M.I.A. officials, but it's not working. The name, surname, the time of the event that can be checked at the Ministry of Infrastructure – otherwise I consider this your question as unfounded. At the Ministry we do not have to search by mail, which is every day — once again not to exaggerate, we get dozens of shipments to the Ministry and Directorate, I think it's a waste of time if you don't hope to expose a particular person. But I'm going to read your question now, so you'll know what you've written us. “I ask you: How is the system or procedure for the acceptance of written and other shipments regulated by your ministry and authorities, and what rules and regulations do you have? How do you act in the event of failure to comply with the rules?" What it defines, I told you, and I also told you that if a violation occurs, a public servant should be responsible. But if we're to find out whether or not the breach was, you're gonna have to, if you're serious, just expose these people. So by name, last name, time, and I have no problem handing it over to my successor to find out how and what. We have also sanctioned a number of bad practices, irregularities in the Ministry. So also, if this is really happening, I don't have any problem with looking at things, sanctioning them, and of course regulating them as they should be, forward. But no way to get rid of it, I'll just say it in general. You need to tell me who and when, and I'll be happy to check.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister for Culture, who carries out ongoing business, mag. Mr Zoran Poznicu and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which conducts ongoing business, mag. Xenia Clampfer. I have information that you're both away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Mrs Klampfer apologized, I expected at least Minister of Culture Zoran Poznits to be here, but I will still ask my question. Because I'm still doing my job, no matter what government it is. So I'll introduce him to you. In the Association of Journalists of Slovenia and the Union of Journalists of Slovenia, they draw attention to the play of legislation and social dialogue in the dismissal of employees in the Officer of Delo. Journalists are protesting against the destruction of Officer Delo and the unfair conduct of the management of the work, which is playing a role in legislation and social dialogue. They also note that this is how Slovenian journalistic journalism is demolished, which we strongly oppose in Levica as well. In particular, in the event of a flood of foreign media or party property, floods of false news and hate speech, the Ministry of Culture should be aware that it is also essential to maintain quality and independent media in order to maintain credible journalism and the right to information. Therefore, we should do our utmost to maintain them and avoid such harmful practices. With the dismissal of employees who received cancellations of employment contracts last week, Delo’s management is formally starting to implement a programme for the resolution of redundant workers. According to the programme, 11 cancellations of the employment relationship and 94 cancellations of employment contracts with the offer of a new contract were last foreseen. The management of work, however, forgives the law and the social dialogue. By 15 January, when the management adopted the surplus workers discharge programme, 16 employees had already left the company under pressure from the announced redundancies, leaving the company in three places of emergency. Thus, in the leading media society in the field of printed media, one quarter of the fewer journalists will be employed within three years. Large and irreparable damage will be mainly for the contents of the national diary and local content, as the work has practically stopped without any correspondence network. That's why I'm asking the Ministry of Labour: How many inspections have you done in cases of collective forgiveness? How many abuses of social dialogue and legislation have you identified in this regard? I ask the Minister of Culture: What did you do to protect independent journalism? What have you done to protect independent media and to limit the financing of client media spreading intolerance and hatred? What have you done to take into account the content criteria when entering the media, not just technically, if you meet those squares correctly? Thank you very much for the answers in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, mag. Ksenija Klampfer, who is absent, and the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Dr. Angeliki Mlinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, a nice greeting! In Slovenia we face a high degree of poverty. It's not some new fact. They're the oldest at the stroke. In the light of this, it is imperative to say that long-term care, which we are also discussing in this national assembly, is unattainable to many of the elderly in this title and that the care of the elderly has been left to the market by the rulers of the social state. Infrastructural solutions for the housing of the elderly are particularly lacking. Eleven thousand elderly people are still waiting for their reception at the nursing home. Pensions, we know, are not enough in many cases or for survival. In Slovenia, a person can no longer afford a safe and dignified age. So far, the government, including the outgoing government, has done virtually nothing in this area, and more decisive measures are urgently needed in this area, and strengthening the network of public homes for the elderly is essential. In Levica, we have already proposed something that could solve this puzzle — 65 million to build a network of public homes — when adopting budget documents. But unfortunately, this government constellation didn't nod about it either. We tried meetings, with questions from the Members, with calls, such and other, unfortunately failed. The current budget documents, 2020/2021, are not enough for concrete maintenance, not only to upgrade the network of public homes for the elderly. The possibility of finding solutions is certainly in the cohesion perspective 2021-2027, i.e. to find a solution to the search for strengthening home infrastructure upgrades in the public network of homes. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: Do you estimate that the Republic of Slovenia and the Minister for Development, Strategic Projects and Cohesion that cohesion funds from the perspective of 2021-2027 can help strengthen the public network of homes for the elderly? In what way and to what extent will the Republic of Slovenia use cohesion funds to develop and strengthen the network of public homes for the elderly? Where are we if, and I hope, the first two answers are yes, with the preparation of strategic documents, plans to address the problem of housing shortages for home care and long-term care? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Mr Sitar, Commissioner, I thank you for the question. In general, I will not tell you anything new if I tell you here now that we do not yet have an agreement on a multi-annual financial framework at European level with regard to the new programming period, and therefore, of course, we do not have an allocation for cohesion. What is now known is that these funds will likely be less than we know. Also due to changed priorities, such as climate change, migration control, and, as far as Slovenia is concerned, also due to the development of this country, which I consider to be very successful. However, I can tell you in response to your question that in the process of defining priority investments for funding from the European Cohesion Policy Funds for the period 2021-2027, adaptation to demographic change, in particular long-term care, is a priority area of action. This is based on a strategy of a long-lived society which defines in the second pillar the independent, healthy and safe life of all generations and the urgent adjustments and changes in the social protection system, accessibility to health services and long-term care, health care and reduction of health inequalities. Most of the elderly also want to live in a home environment in their old age, but it is clear that we all want to grow old with dignity and quality. Slovenia has a less developed area of care at home compared to other countries. The share of home care recipients in Slovenia was only 6.5% in 2014 and 8.9% in 2013. Thus, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has created a number of measures that address the ageing of the population, some of which I am pointing out here today: measures to support the transition from institutional care to home care by providing social security services and services in the community, including the development of long-term care services; networks of intergenerational centres; modernisation and the establishment of social infrastructure, including infrastructure in the area of long-term care. The Ministry of Health is also planning some measures in the area of long-term care, which are expected to be financed by the European Social Fund in the period 2021-2027 – and I stress here. Among these are measures to establish integrated management within the framework of an independent body for quality and safety in health and long-term care, as well as measures to provide new services and new forms of implementation with a view to enhancing access to integrated health and long-term care services in the community. Even in the context of the current programming period 2014-2020, we have devoted a considerable amount of resources from the European Social Fund to activities for the development and pilot implementation of integrated Community services for older people, and a small part of it is also devoted to activities for the development and pilot implementation of services in the context of deinstitutionalisation in the field of mental health and the treatment of persons with mental disabilities, persons with disabilities and those involved in the work centres, social welfare institutions, special and combined social institutions, training institutions, necessary crisis accommodation or accommodation at the exit from the care system. For these activities, we have spent almost €33 million together in the programming period. To conclude, cohesion is not likely to be the only fund suitable for needs, but the next government will most likely have to focus on repayables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you very much. If not, I hope that our pingpong will be a springboard for the next government, which I hope will approach in solving this problem. What I have drawn from this is that there is not yet a clear agreement that there will be less resources, that the poor are refugees and that climate change is to blame, that this balance is thus broken. But anyway, in the identification process – I am paraphrasing your work now, almost quoting civil society, activists involved in this area, i.e. home care – the needs of the country need to be included, this is their call, the need for accommodation for older people in the preparation of operational programmes for 2021-2027. European funds for projects to improve the situation of the elderly can be obtained by amending the operational drawing programme applicable to Slovenia, which the Government has already done in 2017 and thus received 10 million for measures related to demographic change and population ageing. Which is good. But the general mood of the political establishment is poor, which – and this has been confirmed in many cases by the Minister of Labour – favours the privatisation of this work, favours the granting of concessions, the endless granting of concessions and the resolution of this problem by the hand of private capital. So I'm going to ask you another general question. Even though we know what the Court of Auditors has just found out what the downsides of this government policy are, let us be positive. I'm asking you: How can we, although not exclusively but also through the Cohesion Fund Institute, avoid this harmful direction of dependence on private capital and the granting of concessions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I would just say that your conclusions are such that I do not agree with them, because the budget of the European Union depends on the willingness of the Member States to pay for it. These negotiations are taking place, and as you do not like it, it seems as if we may agree on a single budget that will not be able to cover all that is necessary. I never mentioned in any way that refugees might be the reason why they could not finance their homes in Slovenia for the elderly. Everyone here knows that, personally with such an approach, I would never agree. So please don't. [[…]] [[applause in the hall]] Thank you. So please don't play one group against the other. My point is, it's more than familiar. As far as your further question is concerned, the question of the next government will be whether it goes through a concession or whether the demographic challenge is solved by state resources, whatever the case, through a state approach. In fact, I am of the opinion that the next government will – or I would recommend it – even if I remained here to finance these challenges by means of repayable funds is said to be with the European Investment Bank or with the Juncker Fund or other funds are available. But that's my personal opinion, that's just something I'm thinking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. Mag. Meira Hot will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, who carries out the ongoing business, Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Unfortunately, it has once again become clear that in Slovenia the problem of accumulation of waste packaging is once again a problem, which has grown so much that the waste management centres are growing uncontrollably, buying waste packaging that no one wants or cannot take over. The data indicate that waste municipal packaging is now in the hands of municipal companies for 16 000 400 tonnes, and according to some forecasts, this figure is expected to rise to as much as 80,000 tonnes by the end of the year, almost half of the waste municipal packaging collected by municipal companies in Slovenia in one year. The fact that the problem is truly exceptional also confirms the fact that municipal companies are facing even old stocks of unreposited packaging from 2018 and 2019. Municipal companies across Slovenia are currently in unsustainable situations because their warehouses are full and the quantities are increasing from month to month. This is a complete collapse of the municipal waste packaging system. Undoubtedly, the situation of the threat to the environment has been described, and it also poses exceptional security risks. Contamination of groundwater, reproduction of rodents and insects and, last but not least, the outbreaks of fires in collecting centres that occurred throughout Slovenia, including in our collection centre in Dragonja, Municipality of Piran last year. These fires certainly pose a threat and a threat to local communities and our inhabitants. If our professional firefighters and voluntary firefighters of the Piran Municipality did not react in a timely manner and manage to put out last year's fire at the depot, the question is what serious consequences the local population could have. We should not allow this to happen, but in fact it could happen again precisely because of the impossible situations in which the companies are in. So it's a really big threat. In the last few days, the Chamber of Commons addressed you, urged you, warned you, and also addressed some proposals for solutions. Dear Minister, in view of the above, I am interested in: Why has Slovenia still not developed a waste management strategy? In what way will the Ministry of Environment and Space help to resolve the situation that has arisen again as a result of the accumulation of waste municipal packaging? In doing so, I should point out that my view is that the Government should react in a transparent manner, because otherwise we are at risk of a national ecological disaster. This means that there is no longer time to react immediately, but above all not to shift the responsibility from the Ministry to municipal companies, and most importantly, that the cost burden will not arise at the expense of people and households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you for asking. I've answered the same question today, but maybe I'll try from the other end so I don't get too monotonous. Problems with waste packaging have happened to us, but things have started to happen — when? By the first decision of the Court of Justice 2018. At that time, well - known societies found that there were other times to come, and the consequences are visible today. Therefore, this solution, which we will propose this week, is not an intervention solution, it is not a solution as proposed by the Municipal Chamber, it is not a solution as proposed by the State Council, but it is a different one, it is essentially a transitional period, until the new system solution, which we have already prepared and is included in the amendment to the ZVO-1K, which I hope that the new Minister will nevertheless, even though it has been given under my direction by the Ministry, will lead to your bench and that you will accept it. This change will have one good solution, among all others, this is that there will have to be companies in charge of handling the waste packaging created by manufacturers, so it will no longer be that we have a free market where prices are collapsing between us and then we come to the point that this packaging cannot be carried away and we come to the point that we have piles of packaging in public service operators. Then, of course, there's all the inconveniences you've listed, from rodents to fires. Just today, it's back on fire with one of the companies. I know this is still going to happen, it has happened in the previous year, and we have also adopted a new regulation on how such facilities must be regulated to minimise such fires. Of course, this Regulation has a transitional period, but it will slowly start to adopt. In the meantime, we will see to it that exactly what you have mentioned is not going to go to the table. What I do not want and what is this solution, which is now established in the intervention law proposed by the Council of State, is that all the burden is transferred to the budget. This also seems wrong to me because it is still us at the end of the day, so that our solution, which we will give to the public by the end of the week, is such that the state will take care of these piles, but the payers will be directly the producers themselves, which is also the idea of an extended producer's responsibility. Therefore, manufacturers must ensure that the packaging, once it has become wasteful, is properly handled. Since the current system of extension does not work well for us, we will prepare this transitional period differently, but still, manufacturers will pay, not by themselves, or by citizens and not by municipalities indirectly. However, this transitional period will be such that it will not be necessary to re-invest in various intervention measures and intervention laws every year, so that we will now resolve this problem in this part. On the basis of the amendment of the Regulation in 2018 and then of the intervention law, we took almost 22 000 tonnes of waste packaging away, by reviewing some of the waste packaging companies in 2018, finding that they had collected more money than they had then taken away, which means that we paid for the packaging that had already been paid to take it away. That's why criminal charges have been filed and I want to know how this thing is going to end. However, I have also ordered that, in cooperation with Furs and with the police, the control of these companies be strengthened, but in the meantime the state will have to take care of it. Just last week, I signed another 500 tons of packaging from 2019, but it has already accumulated since 2019 and it has already been marked by an inspection, I think it is slightly less than 9 thousand tonnes. The public procurement has already been completed, three tenders have arrived, there is a review of these tenders in the process and then we will also withdraw on the basis of the intervention law on the basis of this contract for 2019. I hope, however, that this system of tripartite contracts, which will be concluded by the State, public service providers and waste handlers, will then run for as long as the new system that you confirm here does not receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will ask a question to the Minister of Health, who conducts ongoing business, Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The initiative for my new question on the topic of the emergency centre Ptuj is a recent article in our local newspaper Styjerski weekly, which says: “Because of the collapse of the government, the construction of the emergency centre is again questionable.” Such a question, almost very similar, you have already received from your fellow Member from Ptuj today, so the issue is really hot and current for even Lower Podravje. Here they say: “After so many complications in the planned construction of the emergency centre on Ptuj it is already hard to believe that the machines will ever start. Every solved complication is followed by a new one. So it is also obvious that now, due to the 300 000 euro project, the question has been raised as to whether a government can, in a departure that only carries out ongoing business, confirm this promotion or not.” In view of this, I am interested, as you yourself have already said, in the new project documentation, this is now the third innovation of the project, which General Hospital Ptuj did not invent. This third amendment is about €300,000 higher than the one that has so far been the basis for a fundamental consensus on funding. As this is therefore an increase in the value of the investment based on the original value, the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should be required. I am therefore interested in: Is the construction of the emergency center on Ptuj threatened or stopped again? How does this affect the construction clock? Which government will confirm the approval of the missing funds? When can we expect the construction and completion of this difficult - to - expect emergency on Ptuj?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, chairman. Madam Member, thank you for the question. It is true, as you have already mentioned, that I have already answered a similar question to your fellow Member today. Regarding the third amendment of the investment programme that we have received 12. 2. At the Ministry, it is in fact that the competent commission must assess the eligibility of the investment or the proposed amendment. And then, of course, things will go to the government. Whether it's this government or the future government, it's hard to tell you this moment, because I don't know the timeline yet, because probably none of us do. As for the project itself, I believe and I would almost hope to claim that it is not at risk. As you yourself said, the emergency centre is important and needs to be built and placed in this microregion or in this environment. As far as the timeline is concerned, it is somehow so that the public procurement procedure should be completed by the summer of 2020 and, of course, immediately follows the start of works. However, according to the timetable, this emergency centre would be completed by autumn 2021 if, of course, there were no unforeseen complications or events during the intermediate stages. If everything was going as planned, it was autumn 2021. Once again, I stress that I hope and believe that the investment itself and the construction of the emergency centre itself are not at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u126	I'd like to highlight two things. With the 5 million-dollar project, I don't even think it's worth 300 000 euros so much, because we all know, all the mayors and everyone's warning that all the construction investments in recent years have been more expensive than they have been in recent years, even at the expense of labour shortages and many other causes. Before we confirmed the budget, I also put a written question to you on the same subject, because if anyone looks at the budget, he sees that these resources are not in the budget. Then you replied to me that the ministry had 2 million EUR 549 thousand 124 at its disposal and that it would then transfer this from 2019 to 2020. Furthermore, you wrote – Since the Ministry does not yet have the amendment number 3 of the investment programme for the construction of the emergency centre of the General Hospital Ptuj, an increase in the value of the project in the preparation of the budget 2020-2021 could not be planned. The Ministry will provide the missing funds of around €1.7 million in 2020 from additional inflows to budget item 2229 – depreciation and other resources under the Public Health Institutes Investment Act. That's why I want to know: Is that still true? Can we also expect the next Minister to provide the missing funds from this budget line?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u128	Yes, your statements are entirely true. The funds, these EUR 2 million 549 thousand 124, were transferred from 2019 to 2020. The difference, that is 1.7 million, will be from depreciation funds, and we have also looked at the Ministry to see how to make a difference. We have these 300,000 euros in unallocated reserves for 2020. We are talking about all reserves – €280,000, so that most of these missing funds will then be provided from this account if the project is approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, who conducts ongoing business, Dr. Jerne Pikalu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u130	Your Honor, thank you for your word. In recent years, we have read too many times about the pressures and exploitation of workers and workers in the maintenance of buildings, and unfortunately also public institutions of education and education are involved, which, instead of directly employing workers, employ them through private operators. In reviewing the eProcurement portal, it is clear that outsourcing services are also used to a large extent in higher vocational schools, universities, colleges and the like. Since our arrival in the National Assembly in Levika, we have been working for the direct employment of workers, so-called insourcing, for the process of re-employment of workers directly from entities who actually and regularly perform their work. In doing so, we insist that the country must take the initiative and become an example to other employees. Our initiative for direct employment, which we addressed to the Government last year, has also gone this way. Your ministry, I must admit, has responded to our initiative and called on all public institutions and institutions in the field of education and education to start direct employment. But unfortunately, there was no big effect. The University of Cyprus, for example, looked for environmentally friendly services for cleaning the premises of the University of Primorska, for example, on the market in December 2019. At the beginning of this February, it decided to resume the contract. They did the same thing last year with the Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology and the Faculty of Administration. And it's not a small amount. The first was €147 000, the second was €157 000, and the third was €97 000. When we include the untransparent use of money and the redirection of funding from the electorate, as our media also reported, the non-employment of cleaners and cleaners at the institutions themselves — although cleaning is something they need every day, not just a few times a year — is completely confused with any logic. That's why I'm asking you: What activities is the Ministry carrying out in order to create direct employment for the work for which there is a continuing need in public institutions and institutions of education and education? How many public institutions in the field of tertiary education employ only technical staff, cleaners, cleaners and janitors; and how many cleaning services are leased on the market? Is there a plan to harmonise rules and standards for the systemisation of high education cleaning jobs in public higher education institutions and universities and the remaining two levels of public education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and of course hello to everyone! Not only do you, but I think we share the same concern, or we wouldn't have sent three letters to everyone on March 19th. On the one hand, research institutes, on the other hand, primary, secondary, music schools, student homes and so on. And on the third page, to public higher education institutions, which you specifically mention. In this call, they are invited to do what we did at the Ministry a little later — but now it is realized — we have done. This insourcing, which you are referring to, was carried out at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in relation to the Security Service and, of course, also carried out. If anything, we too want to lead by example. What's the problem here? The problem is what you're talking about. It is a labour intensive industry where, in fact, overloading workers is the only way to really create profits. So, while it's hard to make profits, for private companies we know which direction they're headed, and of course it causes health problems, causes other problems for the worker, we're talking about cleaners, cleaners, security guards and so on. Secondly, what is the problem with this so-called outsourcing is, of course, that some who are actually employed in the public sector are not subject to collective contracts of the public sector because they are technically employed by a private person and are actually working in a public institution. As a result, segmentation can be created among them and it is not right in this segment that a worker works as an outsourcan and another as an insurcan. It doesn't even make you work. It doesn't do anything else. What matters most is the extent of the rights that workers have or should have. We have proposed to all types of our public institutions – what I told you before – in three letters last March we proposed employment within the public sector; so we are talking about cleaners, cleaners and so on. On the other hand, we also talked, it has not yet been realized, that within the human resources plans, within the systemisations and so on with the Ministry of Public Administration, more insourcing could happen. If I read correctly, the existing ZIPRS allows us to some extent. As for what you're asking me, how much of this has actually been done, I have to say, I don't have eyes right now. I know that some colleges have done this, including my Faculty of Social Sciences, and that's a long time ago. In fact, we are going in this direction; not only in the direction of cheaper, less quality services, but of course in the direction of the greatest possible employment of workers and workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u134	Mr Minister, let me just warn you and remind you what the consequences of external hiring are for society and workers. You've explained this in part before. In the outsourcing process, workers have significantly lost the previously achieved level of protection of workers' rights, the possibility of effective union organisation and representation, and ultimately certain security and stability provided by the public employer as a rule. In the meantime, I wonder if you can tell us publicly: Who is the one who blocks these employment processes in the colleges of this technical staff, is called cleaners, cleaners and other technical staff? If we want to be exemplary, and if we want to be an example as a country, we must be the one in the first place that we should take to work regularly, for an indefinite period of time, workers in colleges or universities. Please, if you can scrub us around: Where is the biggest problem, in fact, that they cannot get a job or that workers are not hired for an indefinite period of time?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you very much. If you ask me where the main obstacle is; the main obstacle is – and I will say very precisely – at the apparent reduced costs. Why am I talking about psychics? Because this view of costs does not take into account everything you have said and what I am saying; that is, the impact on health, the impact on union organisation, the impact on all what are labour rights. Such costs do not look at this broader aspect, and this is what is actually wrong. If you ask me specifically in colleges; this is a matter of the university and their internal decisions, because the state must respect the autonomy of universities in this regard. However, I must say that there are also H payroll groups, J payroll groups and so on, whose positions are not resolved as they should be. And that's something that's the job for the next team to do, among other things, payroll classes and group relationships. If we are talking about university education, then I agree, cleaners, cleaners, security guards, security guards; but also librarians, including the rest, conditionally speaking, support staff, which we know is necessary, so that colleges and universities operate. Their position and salaries must also be properly regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u138	Since we are essentially the only party in this House that advocates the weakest and also the most often overlooked in working processes and in society, I propose that we also have a broader debate on this issue in this national assembly. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the autonomy of the university does not constitute an authorisation for exploitation. If we have set up institutions as a country, if we also fund them to the full, we have not only a right but also a duty to determine what we expect for these grants. And this does not just include the number of employed graduates and the responsibilities of professors, nothing against them, because we respect everything; but I believe that the number of other colleagues they constantly need, as you mentioned earlier. So, it's some kind of association, like some kind of symbiosis. Once again, I propose that we hold a broader debate in this national assembly. I hope, however, that the next Minister will also address these pressing issues as the first time the mandate takes place, because, in fact, we would not be here without cleaners, workers, technical staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 5 March 2020, in the framework of the votes. Before I give the floor to the next debater, let me read a letter received by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia saying: On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Article 241 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we inform you that, at the time of the consideration of the item on the agenda Questions of Members and Members at the 16th regular meeting of the National Assembly, which began today, 2 March 2020, at 12 noon, mags will no longer be present. Zoran Poznic, Minister of Culture, who conducts ongoing business for medical examination. Only Bevk has the word, which will ask the Minister without a résor, responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, who carries out current business, Peter Jožef Česnik. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Slovenia is implementing a plan for the repatriation of Slovenians from one of the countries where, for various reasons, they have emigrated themselves or their ancestors in the past. On the basis of the Action Plan on Repatriation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2019, a repatriation from Venezuela is currently under way. According to some estimates, at least 500 to thousands of Slovenians live in Venezuela, organized in two Slovenian societies in Caracas and Valencia. Many of them have requested or expressed a desire for repatriation. According to the latest data, 51 people were formally requested for repatriation. The requests of relatives for repatriation to Slovenia are justified in my opinion, as the situation in Venezuela is extremely critical from a political, economic and social point of view. In Venezuela, food, other basic necessities of life, and medicines are lacking. In addition, public institutions and infrastructure are not functioning and people have very limited access to basic public goods, such as electricity and water, which are a prerequisite for normal life. Therefore, the political and economic situation in Venezuela does not allow us to live a normal life, which is entirely self-evident for us, and offer no prospects for young families, so our cousins' requests to move to Slovenia are understandable. For the time being, the repatriation was granted to 29 people, 21 of whom are already in Slovenia. Although repatriation is a demanding process that takes place for the first time in Slovenia, after reporting to the media, repatriated relatives in Slovenia feel very good. Minister of current affairs, I therefore ask Peter Joseph Česnik: How is the repatriation of the Slovenians from Venezuela going? Does Slovenia still accept requests for repatriation of Slovenians? How many people have been repatriated to Slovenia by now, and how many are waiting for repatriation in Venezuela? I thank the Minister in advance for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u142	President, thank you for your word. I have to thank Ambassador Bevk for the question, because various rumors are circulating across Slovenia; I am repatriated, repatriated up and down. The fact is that the Office began to deal with repatriation in March of last year when we received our first requests for medicines and financial assistance. Evacuating Slovenians from crisis areas is not a new thing. Humanitarian evacuation in November 1992 was organized by buses. 100 people went to Belgrade and 360 went to Split. Back then, we had no system of arrangements for the reception, processing, accommodation and assimilation of these people. Later, we received nine more returnees from Syria, from the war zone. And again in both cases of this humanitarian repatriation, there are no lists of people, of the notes, who they are and where they are today. It was therefore necessary to make a system by which we could process this, not as one army and number, but primarily to offer humanitarian assistance, as Article 5 of the Constitution dictates. In accordance with Article 5 of the Constitution, a decision was adopted at the end of last year by the Government on the basis of which a coordination committee was organised under the leadership of Secretary of State Olga Belec and two Spanish-speaking technical colleagues at the Office, Dr Zvona Žigon and Dr Dejan Valentinčič. These three people had quite a bit of a synchronisation problem with other sectoral ministries, but that slowly improved and things have now begun to be fully implemented. So far, 21 people have arrived in Slovenia following the repatriation process, and in the next few months we are waiting for about 50 of them together. Repatriation requests are still coming and will probably be coming. Let me illustrate quickly, Slovenian couple went on foot from Valencia in Peru. Legally, I can't give them a plane ticket from Peru to Slovenia, and they can't go on foot. We have incredibly many administrative and legal problems here. Some requests have been resolved positively, some have not. Those who are not resolved positively are, of course, dependent on the different classifications that the law and the legal provisions provide for an individual. The procedure that has begun is interrupted and not continued by some, and these are their reasons. However, the whole repatriation procedure led by the Office shall continue. Beneficiaries who have already received a decision on the granting of repatriation status in Slovenia feel well for the time being, as Mr Bevk has already mentioned, and are slowly involved in society. Here I have to thank the Minister for Education because these people are scattered across Slovenia, with relatives and acquaintances in the environment, where they or their parents are from, and are involved in the school system in those areas. Special thanks must go to the Spanish-speaking volunteers in Slovenia who help coordinate the assimilation of these people on the ground. Let me stress that many of these people are academically educated, namely, pharmacists, chemists, computers. For them we already have several services prepared to begin in late June when they will go through basic courses in the Slovenian language. Such regular activities, health care and the like are, of course, monitored, cooperated. However, I hope that in the future my successor at the Office will continue this important action and further improve interdepartmental cooperation. The procedure is demanding, it is labour intensive. We do not have enough labour at the Office, so I would ask for the participation of other ministries in the new government suit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, too, Minister Česnik, for his thorough response. However, I am sorry that the mandate of this government ends prematurely so that we can no longer participate in these roles. But I will tell you more about this in plenary tomorrow. We will remember the Minister for Slovenians, both in his place and in the world of Peter Jožef Česnik, as a member who chaired the founding meeting of the National Assembly. We will also remember him as the first Minister for Slovenians in the place and in the world with a long-standing expatriate experience and also as the minister who successfully carried out the repatriation of Slovenians from Venezuela. It has been a pleasure working with you, and I thank you very much for your contribution! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like a word of reply? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u146	Mr President, as you know, I am an amateur in this field. It is my great joy, as was the praise of Member Bevek. It has also been an honour to work with you Members with whom I have worked in this area. I'm sorry the hall is 99% empty. I think that other Members should also be interested in Article 5 of the Constitution, which takes care of Slovenians outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. They're not just a burden to us. We have a brain drain, and here we're getting new brains with technical knowledge, with experience and slow integration into our community. Their youth will become an integral part of Slovenia. Thank you again and have a good time in the next reference!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Miha Kordiš gets the word, which will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities, mag. Xenia Klampfer, who's gone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, chairman. I raise a question related to the inclusion in compulsory pension and disability insurance; more specifically by voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension and disability insurance, in which people joined before the STIZ-2, that is before 1. 1. 2013 when it entered into force but also paid voluntary contributions after that date. In most cases, it was for vacation workers who lived with fees, or for some long - term unemployed people who lived through the incomes of their family members. Both were in severe distress, and despite their social misery, they continued to contribute funds to the payment of pensions. Then the political class, by means of the so-called Visario law, took away the essential element of the right, which is why they became involved in the insurance at all. More specifically, ZPIZ-2 introduced a category of non-compensated retirement age where the period of voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension and disability insurance was not counted. These people were paid, even though they were reprimands, even though they were unemployed, and then their rights, for which they were paid, were not recognized. In 2017, the picture improved slightly because the novel PIZ-2E partially eliminated this injustice. The period of voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension and disability insurance up to 1 has been recognised as a non-compensated pensionable period. 1. 2013 – and here it is – but not after that period, some insured continued to pay after that period. That's why I'm interested in the following: How many people paid contributions and remained voluntarily involved in compulsory pension and disability insurance after 1. 1. 2013? What would be the financial impact if the period of voluntary inclusion in compulsory insurance were counted during the non-compensation period? How many of these people have retired? How many of these people are long-term unemployed? How many earlier, on average, would those people have gotten pensions if the period of voluntary inclusion in compulsory insurance had been recognised as a non-compensated retirement? What, if any, compensation would be proposed by the Minister or her team at the Ministry for those who were voluntarily involved even after 1. 1. 2013 and have they retired by now? I'm asking for a written response from the Ministry of Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dusan Šisko will ask a question to the Ministry of Environment and Space, which conducts ongoing business, Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u150	Nice hello to you all! The well-known pharmaceutical company Krka from New City moved part of its production to Krško, where since 2014, its Sintez 1. At the time, the local community agreed to new jobs, but soon it turned out that Krka chose the location in Krskem mainly to relieve the inhabitants of the New City and the Krka River. As early as last year, a great deal of excitement among citizens was caused by the news that Krka is building a warehouse of dangerous substances in Krske. Following a decision of the Ministry of Environment and Space or the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment (Arso) in 2009, this facility should be environmentally acceptable without a specific environmental agreement, since it is being built in an area for which the investor already has the right permissions. However, the decision shows that it is not only the storage of chemicals from the area of the existing pharmaceutical unit, but the relocation of the storage of dangerous substances from the location of Krka Ločna in Novi mesto to the location of Krka Krško. There is a maximum of 800 tonnes of toxic, flammable, oxidative, toxic and environmentally hazardous substances stored above ground. The documentation also shows that the Water Directorate originally required an environmental impact assessment, as the Krka facility stands just a few feet from the Sava River. As citizens continue to remind me that they believe the operation of such a facility can lead to pollution of the environment to a large extent, I ask: In connection with the construction of the facility, was everything in accordance with the legislation? If all was well, why does spatial legislation allow for such ex-post interventions involving new facilities without further verification and the consent of the local community? Why can a potentially dangerous object be built without public consideration?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member! In its opening remarks, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, spatial development planning and the tasks in the area of spatial interventions and the construction of buildings are of public interest, which means that they are carried out independently by municipalities; they are linked to the applicable legislation in the field of space regulation. The rules in the area of space regulation strictly delimit the powers of the State and the municipality to place arrangements in the premises. In accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning, the municipality is competent to determine the objectives and baselines of spatial development in its area, to determine the use of space and conditions, to place interventions into the premises and to plan spatial arrangements of local importance. The spatial arrangements of the local importance of the municipality are placed in the space with municipal spatial acts, that is with the municipal spatial plan or the municipal detailed spatial plans. The specific facility represents the arrangement of local importance, which was placed in the premises by the municipal spatial act of Krško Municipality. It is also the responsibility of the operator of the spatial act for its expertise and legality. In the present case, it is neither an object of State importance under the Construction Law nor an environmental object to which an integrated procedure should be conducted, since Arso has in the previous procedure concluded that it is not necessary to assess the effects on the environment and to obtain environmental consent for such an operation. Therefore, the issue of a building permit is within the competence of the administrative unit. For the construction of a new warehouse of hazardous substances on the north-eastern part of the Krka complex, d.d., the investor submitted an application for a building permit to the administrative unit Krško in November 2018. Our ministry does not have data on whether or not the administrative unit has already issued the building permit. The building law also allows the municipality to participate in the procedure for issuing a building permit, since Article 31 provides that the municipality shall be a mandatory judge on the conformity of the documentation for obtaining a building permit with spatial implementing acts and other rules of the municipality. As already mentioned, Arso issued a decision on 15 March 2018 on the investment in question which decided on the proposed amendment, namely the construction of a new warehouse of hazardous substances. Arso concluded in its decision that it was a minor change in the environmental permit. A preliminary procedure was carried out, obtained from the opinion of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Chemicals, the Ministry of Health, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water. On the basis of the opinions and the preliminary procedure carried out, the Agency concluded that it was not necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment and to obtain environmental consent for that intervention. The decision was published on the Arsa website and on the eGovernment Single National Portal; however, no one complained at the time of the decision issued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u154	Yes, thank you. Minister, that's the answer I expected. Firstly, Arso has published on his website, I believe that residents in Posavje do not watch Arsa's websites; and this is this hole in our legislation that you publish somewhere, it can only be 3, 4 days a matter published and no one can see it. It usually even happens by Friday’s announcement, and on Monday it all goes away. As far as Arsa is concerned, I've already said in this very hall once, when we were thinking of the Ljubljana channel C0, that Arso is up there, somewhere on the moon, and we're sitting on the ground. And they give consent or decisions to those who write and do not. I must tell you that in my further work, I will also draw attention to the will of state bureaucrats and strive to make such things seem, nicely said, completely less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u156	Yeah, maybe that's what I didn't get to say about the time of the publication earlier. Arso, as I said, has been on the eGovernment Single National Portal since 19. 3. 2018 to 4. 4. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. At that time, the public concerned and NGOs acting in the public interest in the field of environmental protection had the opportunity to lodge a complaint on the decision issued. Arso didn't receive any complaints at the time. However, as I have already said, at the time of the issue of the building permit, the congregation, of course, still has its own time because it is a mandatory judge.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I won't say it's your fault. You said so yourself that Arso posted on the e-portal. Tell me which people in Slovenia who do not have a computer that does not have Internet access will be able to look there. I believe, as I have said several times in this House, ministers, secretary of state is not to blame for such things. It's those who have been sitting there for 15, 20 years, taking the material, changing the date, changing the two sentences, turning it around and giving it to the minister to sign. But then you're the one who screws up or replaces you. And don't think I have anything against you right now, but I do. In Krsek and Posavje, drive along the road and you will see what is going on there. It's already been built. And these chemicals, I believe that Krka wanted to unload Lokno in New Town, but that's just as much as you'd have, I'll say, livestock farming, and where you're at home, you'd be banned. And you'll put a pasture somewhere else where there's water nearby, and then those neighbors there will say, "When can you move it, if we shouldn't have gotten permission for it?" These are the realities. And something on the e-club hangs the portals, I believe no one looks at Arso, what they publish, what permits they give. Thank you, Vice President, I may have broken up because it's the last session, but that's what's going on. I'm not giving you a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Yes, you did. Violeta Tomic will ask the Minister of Justice, who conducts ongoing business, Andreja Katic, and the Minister of Health, who carries out ongoing business, Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Chairman. I wonder if you are aware that since 1992, Slovenia has been in breach of the 1961 UN International Convention on Narcotic Drugs, which it has inherited since Yugoslavia. This is used directly and should be properly dictionary and also meaningfully translated. The purpose of the Convention, which is a hierarchy of legal resources over the law and under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, is to regulate the cannabis plant and the plant itself is not prohibited under the Convention at all. The consequences of such a false translation can, in a legal sense, be very extensive and also very problematic. If it is shown that the legislation adopted pursuant to this Convention does not express the spirit and purpose of the Convention, this being that the hemp plant is not persecuted as such, this means that in a particular case an act may unjustifiably be punishable, even though it is in fact totally permissible or only an offence. The Ministry of Justice was thoroughly informed by the translation, which was published and later withdrawn from its websites to the intervention of Jožet Hren from the Ministry of Health. At the meeting of the Health Committee, the Ministry of Health had already commissioned an official translation of the Convention in April 2019 and promised us that it would take place in April 2020. At the last meeting of the Government Drug Commission, which was 14. 2. We have informally learned, however, that the Ministry of Health’s responsible will again ignore the Committee’s conclusions and that they will not make the translation because they are aware that revisions of the procedures will be necessary in this case. That is why I am interested in this, with respect: How many citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have been convicted since 2010 under Article 86 of the Penal Code, based on the wrong translation of the Convention? How is it possible that all drug legislation is based on an international act that is not translated into the correct language of the country of origin at all? In civil society, many damages are also being brought for prosecution on the basis of the wrong legal basis. And that's why I want to know: What will the Ministry do about these judgments? Why the Ministry of Justice, despite the problem of translation, has never advocated a correction of the translation of the Convention and has never warned that the regulation on the classification of illicit drugs is a mistake. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In 2016, the Ministry of Justice withdrew the unofficial translation. The errors that have been pointed out in the past have no effect on criminal proceedings in the Serbian language, since it has been pointed out that it is an informal translation, mainly because of the easier knowledge of the use of the text, but not as regards the official version. And he did not have the characteristics of a regulation or an official document, so that he would be part of the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. On the question of translation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be asked. In the past, we have repeatedly pointed out that this translation has not yet been produced. Last year, the Health Committee also instructed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide within one year an appropriate translation of the 1961 Single Convention on Drugs, supplemented by the 1972 Protocol. As I said, the Ministry of Justice has repeatedly warned in the past that we do not have this translation and that it must be done. But the unofficial translation didn't have any consequences with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Thank you for the question, Madam Member. First, I'd start like this. It is not the Ministry of Health — which you have repeatedly mentioned in your address — that it is a fault that there was no translation — that which was called upon to make a translation, but it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would like to remind you that I have the same question for you, here I also have a magnetogram, answered at the 13th meeting of the National Assembly on 18 November 2019. I reiterate that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for this issue of the translation of the Single Convention on Drugs and for the legislative field of illicit drugs. We have already cleared this up on the Health Committee in April 2019, which you yourself mentioned. The area of illicit drugs is effectively regulated at international level by three conventions: the Single Convention on Drugs of 1961, the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971 and the Convention against the Illicit Traffic in Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988. In 1992, Slovenia transposed this Convention by means of an act of succession to international treaties into its legal order and thus committed itself to their implementation. In fact, the single Convention on Drugs is not translated into Slovenian. This fact was discussed by the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Drugs and also by the Committee of the National Health Council. The Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the translation of the Convention at its 12th meeting, held on 14 June 2017, in the form of a Commission decision, invited the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to accede to the translation of the integrated text of the 1961 Convention on Narcotic Drugs into the Slovenian language. As mentioned above, at its 11th emergency meeting on 19 April 2019, the Committee of the National Health Council adopted a decision proposing to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide, within one year, a substantive Slovenian translation of the 1961 Single Convention on Drugs, supplemented by the 1972 Protocol. The latter is translated into Slovenian. The Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Drugs is at its 16th session 14. 2. 2020 re-examined the translation of the said Convention; the Ministry of Foreign Affairs made it clear at the meeting that the translation of the entire Convention currently exceeds their staff and material capacity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u166	Of course, I'm not happy with your answers. They do not have the ability to translate one convention within one year. I ask you kindly, what kind of government were you, that you couldn't make a deal? Okay, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be translated, but you are sitting at regular government meetings and this topic is being addressed by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs. And you who sit there at the round table couldn't make a translation in one year; not to say, on 7 October 2016 we ordered the Ministry of Health, which you cover, to make sub-laws for treatment with cannabinoids; and nothing happened. However, the fact that there is an even greater confusion in this area stems from the fact that although the Supreme Court has repeatedly ruled that the cultivation of hemp for personal purposes is not a crime, the lower courts have been ignoring these decisions for years and years. If you have withdrawn, the Honourable Minister of Justice, the wrong translation — as far as I know, all other conventions have been translated, only this one — how dare you punish people on the basis of this untranslated convention. And a few more words about health. Prim. Dr. Jožica Červek, who will be able to establish the expertise, oncologist and recipient of the state award – the order of credit for outstanding achievements in the introduction of new methods of cancer treatment and new knowledge in the field of treatment with cannabinoids, said: “The cannabis is still accompanied by the stigma of an inefficient drug – dangerous drugs. In the case of those responsible, prejudices are present and ideological obstacles are outdated, which raises questions about the legislation adopted today, as it is not exploited. No application for a medical hemp marketing authorisation has yet been granted, as none has yet met the endlessly inconclusive bureaucratic requirements." And that's your job.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you, okay, for that insulting comment on your part. It would be good if we also addressed this issue to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, given that you had to know that they were responsible for this translation. I myself and the Minister of Health have said that in the past we have repeatedly warned, now I have no data, whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working on this; I say that we are not being punished on the basis of some conventions, but on the basis of the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act. But everything else is basically just your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to join a colleague of the Minister, probably one of our last performances in this high assembly, but I would still ask, honourable Member, that we maintain respect and dignity for ministers, for the government and, of course, for each other. On several occasions, both I and the Minister of Justice have told you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is obliged to do this translation, so these questions, which you refer to me and to a colleague, should be addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They will likely answer you with reasons for and against why this translation was not available. As for ideology, political science and the like, which should rule in our ministry, I can tell you that, during my term of office, decisions were made only on the basis of professional views, not political and not ideological. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to call on you to respect the dignity of the Members of this National Assembly, because the Minister of Justice has not answered any of my questions raised, namely, how many citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have been convicted under Article 86 of the Penal Code based on the wrong translation of the Convention; how is it possible that all drug legislation is based on an international act that is not translated into the proper language of the country of origin at all; what will you do with civil society lawsuits and why all other conventions must be translated, except for that one. The government drug commission belongs to your department, the well-respected Minister of Health. Currently, Croatia has a law on the table for the full legalization of this plant for medical, industrial and recreational purposes. Within five months, Croatian experts were able to prepare a law covering economic growth on the basis of this plant, by 2025 to increase the area for hemp cultivation, to promote industry and production, to place hemp within the health system of the Republic of Croatia, and nine plants with high THC content can grow every adult in Croatia. And you're saying I'm a grave man if I ask you why the hell you're making fun of us. On 7 October 2016, we instructed the Ministry of Health to arrange for this plant to be accessible to patients waiting to enter the black market who are spending a lot of money. And when they plant the plant themselves, they land in prisons or in court palaces. Tell me who's making fun of you here – whether patients, civil society or the government are leaving. I'm asking you nicely for respect on your part as well. I'm not happy you're leaving. I'm afraid there are worse times coming, but this is no excuse for your unacceptable treatment of Members, because we are the legislative authority here. Officials at the Ministry, as my predecessor said, and bureaucrats ignore our conclusions, you are changing to my great regret. Bureaucrats are eternal and they stay. I ask you to discuss these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 5 March 2020, in the framework of the votes. Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, who conducts ongoing business, Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u174	Your Honor, thank you for your word. In its special report in 2018, the European Court of Auditors gave the opinion of the World Health Organisation that air pollution poses the highest environmental risk to human health in the European Union. More than 400 thousand premature deaths occur due to increased particulate matter in the air or air pollution. I come from an area where air pollution with these solid particles or PM particles is the largest in Slovenia. This is the area of Ptuj, Murska Sobota and Celje. We also had a very good meeting last week on air pollution and disease in Anhove. Here's the thing. I'm just going to give you one example from our area. The people who live on Ptuj along the Ormoska road, because of these solid particles in the air, because this road is very transitive, are getting very sick very quickly in the last ten years; some are also very ill. On 10 March 2016, we convened an urgent meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space on the subject of air pollution with solid particles. And at this meeting, the three conclusions of the Committee for the Improvement of Pollution with PM10 particles were adopted. I'm about to take these conclusions. The aim was to follow the proposals for amendments in particularly vulnerable areas, with particular emphasis on short-term solutions. This is expected to happen by the end of 2016. A strategy to reduce air pollution as a result of the burning of wood in small combustion plants is to be developed and cohesion tendering for the period 2013-2020 is to be accelerated, in particular for measures related to air quality improvement plans. That's why I want to know: What short-term measures have you taken at the Ministry to reduce pollution by PM 10 particles and PM2.5 in specially exposed areas that I have already mentioned? Where have you introduced these measures, and what have been the effects of these short-term measures on improving air quality? How many cohesion funds have been allocated and how many will there be for air quality improvement measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member! In our style today, we are also concluding parliamentary questions, so I am actually happy that this has been done. And if we go to these conclusions and our actions so far, and the means we've made for it. Currently, all seven amended decisions on air quality plans are implemented, i.e. for Ljubljana, Zasavje, Celje, Kranj, Mursko Soboto, Novo mesto and Maribor, which were adopted in 2017 and 2018 at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We continue to prepare an amendment to the air quality plan. The areas of the Municipality of Kranj and the Municipality of Hrastnik are officially no longer areas with excesses because the measured limits have been in line with the prescribed values for more than three years. There is also a trend in the improvement of air quality in other areas with excesses, as the number of days from year to year is lower. Work is continuing on the operational programme for air quality conservation in the Republic of Slovenia for all areas where the limit values for ambient air pollution are not exceeded. The operational programme is ready for public hearing. The next minister will submit this programme to the public hearing. The Interdepartmental Working Group has also prepared a document of the strategy on the intellectual use of wood biomass in combustion plants. This one is now ready for public hearing. The Ministry shall also continue to draw up programming documents for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2021-2027, including external air quality measures. Of course, we also finance actions from the Eco Fund. From 2011 to 2019, the data are as follows. In addition to measures to improve the quality of external air, which include subsidising investments in higher energy efficiency of residential buildings, the EcoF also provides irreversible financial incentives for the installation of new combustion plants on wood biomass or new heat pumps for central heating of residential buildings, or for the replacement of old combustion plants with new combustion plants or heat pumps. Heat pumps have fewer or zero PM10 particles and other pollutants than combustion plants, which have a positive impact on air quality. From 2011 to 2019, the Eco Fund earmarked €25.7 million of subsidies for the purchase of 14,000 new combustion plants and €34.7 million for the purchase of 25 000 635 new heat pumps. The PM10 particulate pollution assessment is that replacing an old combustion plant with a new combustion plant for central heating of the apartment building has reduced particle discharge by about 65 kilograms per year; or replacing the heating mode to a heat pump by about 75 kilograms per year, depending on the size of the building and the intensity of heating. However, we continue with the programme, which I hope will be confirmed by the government this week, the use of the Climate Change Fund in the period 2020-2023, in order to earmark €59.3 million in 2020, in 2021 to €58.8 million, in 2022 to €35 million and in 2023 to €30 million for measures that can help improve air quality. In addition, the Ministry of Environment and Space is preparing a project application for the LIFE programme, on the subject of solving air issues in areas where decisions have been taken on the air quality plan. The municipalities of Murska Sobota, Maribor, Miklavž will join the project registrations in Dravska Polje, Celje, Hrastnik, Trbovlje, Zagorje ob Savi, Ljubljana and Ptuj. The projected value of the project is €17 million, and we expect 10 million from the European Union. The decision will be taken in September 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u178	Your Honor, thank you for your word. It is also very important that what Mr Minister has also said about what we use as energy and which should also be encouraged by the Eco Fund. Therefore, I propose that subsidies be increased to replace the old combustion plants with a heat pump and extend to the whole of Slovenia, or at least to larger complex settlements, precisely in view of the permanent reduction of these solid particles or PM particles. I also want to know: Can we expect any air quality strategy? At what stage is the preparation of this strategy? Will the inspection services increase supervision or prepare any awareness-raising actions for the field of incineration of excess biomass after the spring cleaning of gardens and orchards, especially within or around the centralised settlements, since this is also one of the pressing problems, even in the district areas?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u180	Thank you. Perhaps a few more data indicate that the measures taken to replace combustion plants, including some other measures, show results. If we look at the number of day-to-day limits between 2016 and 2019, we can see that we have made progress. These measures, which are being implemented and will continue to be implemented, show and produce some results. Let's say data for Ljubljana Bežigrad, in 2016 it was 36 days, in 2019 16. Ljubljana, Biotechnical Faculty measuring station: in 2016 at 30, in 2019 only 8. Economic Exhibition, 2016 I have no data, in 2017 it was 39, in 2019 21. Maribor: in 2016 43, in 2019 13. Objectives: in 2016 53, in 2019 23. Celje, Maribor station: in 2017 there were 57, in 2019 43. Murska Sobota, Rakičan: 42 in 2016 and only 14 in 2019. Murska Sobota, Cankareva: The first data is from 2018 when there were 46 in 2019 28. Novo mesto: 41 in 2016, in 2019 10. Kranj: 27 in 2016, in 2019 8. Zagorje: 2016 54, in 2019 28. Trbovlje: from 38 fell to 16 and Hrastnik: from 25 fell to 9. These measures have some effects; it is true that two thirds of PM10 particles come from small hens or from small combustion plants, so it is important that we continue to invest in this. It should also be said that the socially disadvantaged receive this 100 % replacement subsidy. We have also made sure that those who cannot afford to do so can contribute to improving air quality. In Slovenia we have this problem or perhaps the advantage that 60% of our Slovenia is forested. After all these bites we witness to each year, of course, there is a lot of wood left that is not suitable for anything other than burning, so we will continue to use this woody biomass. It is necessary, however, that people know how to properly prepare wood for heat, that we have control; and that we continue to subsidise the replacement of combustion plants, as we have done so far. But where it is possible to connect to remote heating, of course this is a better solution. Wherever this happened, they have much better air than where they stay on individual combustion plants.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u182	I suggest we discuss air pollution with solid PM10 particles or PM2.5 particles. This problem of air pollution goes beyond or beyond our national borders. The measurement data show that after some measuring points we have used more than half of the days allowed to exceed the limit values within the calendar year, as already mentioned. Health is what we all don't just care about, but we want it. And if we are to live a healthy life or be healthier, it will be in this particular area that we need to change and settle matters. At the same time, I would like to end by thanking all those in this government. Ministers, I wish you well on your way of life and work! And I'm also glad that we're the last ones to ask questions today, I think we've done it five or six times before, if I'm not mistaken. And it is also okay if we are the last to open up, in my opinion, the most important topics on this planet, which are related to how to preserve or repair and heal our land, as well as how people should expand their horizons and also begin to understand that we are part of nature, that we are part of this earth. If we do good, we'll live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-02-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 5 March 2020, in the framework of the votes. I would like to thank the President of the Government, ministers and ministers who are engaged in ongoing business, for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue on Thursday, 5 March 2020, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 16th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
