ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting the 36th extraordinary session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Ferenc Horváth, Soniboj Knezak, Matjaž Han, Sam Bevk, Bojana Muršič, Franz Trček, Marjan Sarec, Jože Lenart, Andreja Zabret. At the meeting, I invited representatives of the government to all points. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 36th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda today, 30 April 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to withdraw the agenda item or proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. [[Technical disturbances; microphone switched off for 5 seconds]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, chairman. You are starting a session where the ruling coalition wants to stop people from having a referendum on three crown laws. In Levi, we estimate that the ban on the referendum is in itself unacceptable, but in this particular case it is also a matter of further undermining democratic standards and existing parliamentary practices only in order to establish a new standard and take away the opportunity of a referendum from people, without discussion. We have only positions of three-minute parliamentary groups, and we do not even have a debate at this plenary session, nor have the working bodies of the National Assembly been convened. Mr President, we urge you to stop this meeting so that you can convene a college to set a time for discussion. That's what we think would be some sort of hygienic minimum. Let the ruling coalition justify its decision before citizens and citizens. Let him say why he wants to disable the only instrument of direct democracy in this country and to make his decision in the defence debate. I would say that this is also a democratic minimum, not just a hygiene minimum, but the truth of the loving democratic minimum in this country has long been unachieved. In short, presidents, interrupt the meeting and call on your college to set a suitable time for discussion there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u3	Dear colleague, this time course of the meeting has been set at the College. Before we had a college, we also discussed it at the meeting of the President of the National Assembly. It is said that it has been dealt with twice, and I must tell you that such a time course as has just been problematic has been adopted unanimously. So it is determined as it is, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As for the rest of the readings – I will now answer that too, given that you are challenging the procedure itself. Finally, it is necessary to mention, even in accordance with these allegations that you have stated that the legal and legal service in each of the decisions to be considered today has found that they are in accordance with the Constitution and the law. My friend Krivec raised his hand earlier, even procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I would like to ask you to remind your fellow Member that, in this case, when he has carried out the procedural work, he is misleading us and is also misleading the audience, the viewers and everyone present at this meeting in such a way or another way. I would ask that you warn him that he is not lying or deceiving in the National Assembly. The fact is that this law, which we are now adopting in the second reading of this law, has adopted this national assembly with a majority and is a purely democratic process. I would suggest that he doesn't deceive himself that way. The second part has already been clarified by the President. We have also agreed on the agenda, including the timetable for this reference to the College of Presidents, and this time, for this meeting, even unanimously. The representative of the Left also voted that this was okay, otherwise, in other cases he would normally abstain. So I really don't know why you're allowing yourself to be deceived and in some way lying, because in previous procedures, the National Assembly has changed this law so that today we can even vote on three intervention laws, which is why [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u5	Comrade Krivec, you too have a procedural, so I suggest we don't open now. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u6	Yes, because I have proposed procedurally to warn the Member that he is not lying.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u7	Good. I've already warned you. My friend Kordish. I hope there is a new procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u8	Thank you. Who in this country is financing and managing a lying factory, we know. What I said was true. Because, as presidents, we do not want to delay, but to provide at least a few standards for the public and information of citizens, of course, to defend only the possibility of direct democracy, to defend the institution of the referendum. I took part in the College of the President of the National Assembly for the Left and voted against this meeting. Look, we have a government that's making up what it would or wouldn't be today. Let's just look at the last fiasco by opening museums, and the National Assembly shouldn't have even had two hours of debate. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u9	My friend Kordish, this is stalling.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u10	Presidents, I call on you to adjourn the meeting, convene a college and determine the course of this meeting in a way that will allow for a democratic debate. Because, like the procedure of this session of cowardly eggs, these three laws, which today are supposed to give up the possibility of a referendum, are cowardly eggs. What does the outbreak have to do with the hit by the Ministry of Finance on the SID Bank and its supervisory board? And what does the epidemic and apparently the necessity of banning the referendum have to do with the fact that the government, with a legal defeat on nature-guards, excludes them from the procedures? Is the cracking in Petišovci and the Ljubljana bypass, instead of the railway, really an action against the crown? No! No!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u11	My friend Kordish, you're a procedural abuser and you're stalling. What's your suggestion?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u12	Presidents, let's cut the session. Let's call a college. The minimum hygiene minimum is to hold at least a debate, as was Parliamentary practice in the past. Every time there was a referendum on the table or its ban or that the National Assembly was not for the referendum, there were always committees, there was always a parliamentary debate, and now it's over. Beyond parliamentary practice. And that, the chairman, is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u13	The end is procedural. We're voting on the agenda. How many of you are for procedural? Comrade Jelinčič, I'll give you a procedural one, but let's make it procedural so it won't be another ping-pong.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would suggest that some here in the hall measure the temperature.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u15	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to a decision. Check the voting machines, we're voting on the agenda. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members present, 58 votes against 2. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the agenda of the 36th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, that is to say the motion for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legal referendum on the law on the provision of additional liquidity to the economy for the violation of the aftermath of the epidemic of manid-19. On the basis of Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision. Before I give my word to the government, she's a procedural colleague of Violet Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u16	The Honourable President of the National Assembly! I must say that in all six years I have been in Parliament, I have not seen the President of the National Assembly decide not to give members of the opposition a procedural one. We demand time for discussion. You'll always vote us over, of course. But when SDS was in the opposition, Comrade Tanko also said and demanded that time be allocated. And if, to quote, "the time is not allocated, I propose a half-hour suspension of the meeting, a college call and an agreement on the allocation of time to the proposer, for all other things, I consider it to be part of the opposition's difficult work package." I quoted him. This was true when the SDS was in opposition, and should apply now. For, respected and respected, the referendum is the last defender of democracy and you cannot take the right to a referendum for the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia in just one session with a vote. It's unacceptable. Based on the whole parliamentary practice and on the importance of this content, it is essential that we be given a debate in which we will hear how, under the cover of some urgent measures to address the health crisis, you can also put in the Law on Local Self-Government, the reduction of environmental standards. What does the increase in the influence of the government in the SID Bank and so on have? This is of interest to us and we want you not to hide cowardly eggs within the emergency measures to address the consequences of covida-19 damage. People have the right to ask questions, and the opposition also has the right to ask questions. You're already dealing with protestors with completely undemocratic standards, introducing dictatorship, strengthening authoritarianism. Once again, I call on you to ensure a debate on the decision to prohibit the call for a referendum. Therefore, I ask you once again, procedurally, to stop the session and give us time to give our opinion. Thank you for your kind attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u17	Dear colleague, the time course of the meeting you are in trouble with has been accepted to the College. I didn't make it up. It was adopted, and it was done unanimously. I have no basis for calling a college on the timing of the session, which is already under way, now that the meeting has begun as we await the word of the Government. There's just no basis for that. And I think you're too aware of that. But the fact is, and this is from your point of view, that you are problematic about the substantive decision of the National Assembly, which is likely to be taken today. But you had the opportunity to do so yesterday, and today you will also have in the position of your Group of Members. However, if we have certain procedures laid down in the Rules of Procedure, I cannot, of my own free will, interrupt and put to the vote again what has been decided with the help of the Left. I can't, and you know it. I'm a colleague of mine. I hope you don't have the same procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u18	No, I don't. Dear President! The practice so far has seen 16 such cases amending the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative. And of these 16 today we have three ahead of us, 13 of them followed the established procedure. First, there was a meeting of the parent committee, then a meeting of the National Assembly, where the parliamentary groups had their minute, which is common to positions, and then there was a debate on the plenary. It's not like that today. All we have is that there are three minutes available for each parliamentary group to be said, and this is it. And this is about such important things as the prohibition of the right to a referendum and the immediate application of the law. So let's get this over with. This is a precedent, Mr President, and you know it very well. It is also right for the Slovenian public to hear this clearly. Why are we asking for a debate? Because the Law-Legal Service has also warned in intervention laws that there are things inside that do not belong to the fight or counter-measures against the virus, but are in terms of lowering environmental standards, lowering democratic standards and permanent interference in the Law on Local Self-Government and so on. The SDS itself has insisted on all this history in basic democratic standards, and Violet's colleague has already quoted a respected colleague of Tank, who knows very well what minimum democratic standards are, and knows very well how a democratic debate must take place in Parliament. Not only is it a referendum that advocates democracy, parliament must be a defender of democracy. And you, as chairman, must be the first one to defend the democratic procedure in the first place. Today's minimum democratic procedure is to enable us to have at least a plenary debate. I have a procedural suggestion to suspend the meeting and to ask the Legislative and Legal Service to give us concrete information on whether and how we should proceed in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u19	Mrs. Sukich, I fully understand your concerns. I'm talking about substantive concerns against the law. I think you pointed them out to a large extent at yesterday's session. But today we are talking or deciding about another decision, not the law itself, whether a referendum is permissible or not. And when you point out that in the past the practice has been different, I must remind you that we have changed the law in this regard. I'll read it again. The laws which have already been adopted have been discussed both at the meeting of the National Assembly yesterday, as well as at the working bodies, and the Legislative and Legal Service has, in fact, concluded for all the decisions we are deciding today: "We note that the proposal for a decision in those respects is consistent with the provisions cited in the Constitution and Article 21a of the ZRLI under the assumption that the law will be adopted and that the National Assembly will decide on the proposal for a decision within the timeframe and under the conditions laid down in Article 21(1)." There is no doubt that we respect these provisions and the Constitution. However, if you want to raise the issue that you do not have the opportunity to discuss the law again today, which you had the opportunity to discuss yesterday with the content of the law itself, I will tell you again. We decided on the way to the college, and then you confirmed it. Not a word of it has been a problem for all the parliamentary groups, not just yours, but that we have today only a choice of opinion. No one's ever bothered with that. It is not possible to sanction or resolve the fact that you did not have a problem with it by suspending the meeting and going to college again, because there is no support in the Rules of Procedure, and finally, the question is whether your proposal would receive adequate support. But no matter what, I don't have any business opportunity for that either – to stop the session now and call the college again. We're in the middle of a session. That's never happened before. My friend Kordish, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u20	Thank you. President, for a month and a half, the work of the National Assembly has been faced with the government making up what it would or would not have, with today to tomorrow. Then she pushes the grains of material into the parliamentary process and demands that this process take place as soon as possible. Countless of the cowardly eggs are in this material, which Members and our experts are barely coming. At the rate we get on the table. It is similar with the procedure itself – and therefore procedurally – and with this meeting. I've been to your college, Mr. President, against the very reference of this session. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u21	Comrade Kordish, you're repeating what you said a few minutes ago. It was you, and you kept your mouth shut. We should get that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u22	As far as the timing is concerned, the same as at the substantive level applies to these laws — the cowardly egg. Coward egg to prevent debate. And one more thing. True, the Law of Referendum and Human Initiative has changed. But how this law is implemented also includes parliamentary practice. This parliamentary practice is changing only at this meeting, with this meeting. In fact, nothing significant has really changed for this parliamentary practice by amending the law. This is a similar act – sometimes the decision was taken by the National Assembly, now the decision is taken by the National Assembly. Today's session is in grave breach of existing parliamentary practice. The only technical difference that does not affect the procedure at this stage is that sometimes the initiative came from the National Assembly and now the Government is giving the initiative to ban the referendum. It is still a matter of a decision of the National Assembly, an act of the same nature and a grave violation of parliamentary practice is being rewritten. And it is written in a very dangerous way – to take the opportunity of a referendum through a fast procedure, without discussion through a voting machine. President, this is unacceptable. This is very unhealthy for anything that is supposed to be called a democratic standard in this country. That is why you must stop this meeting and call on the College of the National Assembly to discuss the time for discussion there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I have already identified myself before this proposal. I give my word to a representative of the Magnificent Government. Kristini Steblaj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! The Government, together with this Act, which was approved by this Assembly on 28 April, forwarded to the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 21a, paragraph 1, of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, a proposal for a decision establishing the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum on this law. According to the proposal for material, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 90(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia, Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this proposed decision be adopted. In the opinion of the Government, in the case of this law, the condition laid down in Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that a referendum shall not be allowed to be declared on the laws of urgency in order to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. Since the Council of State decided at its 14th extraordinary meeting that it would not require the National Assembly to take a decision on it before the announcement, the condition for the adoption of the proposed decision is also fulfilled. The proposal for a decision sets out the reasons why the referendum is not admissible and would point out the following. This law, which constitutes an emergency measure, will enable the immediate and effective enforcement of the consequences of the epidemic in the Republic of Slovenia, both for the population and for the economy, as well as the smoothing of its consequences for the Slovenian economy. The exceptional situation faced by the Republic of Slovenia in the wake of the outbreak of this epidemic is mainly reflected in forecasts of economic trends or of a concrete slowdown in economic growth and the decline of social product. The law thus constitutes the legal basis for the Republic of Slovenia's guarantee measure for the rental of bank loans, which ensures that the economy is in need of liquidity to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic and thus prevents the serious economic damage that could have occurred. By ensuring urgent liquidity to the Slovenian economy, sufficient medium-term liquidity is ensured in the banking system and the optimization of the use of the already used fiscal area of the Republic of Slovenia's budget. Your Honor, for all the above reasons, the Government is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt the proposed decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. I'm Tina Hefferle's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. I will extend our position on this point to the position on the decision in the first package and to the introduction of a brief summary of the relevant provisions. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall state in taxi the cases in which the Government may propose an urgent legislative procedure. This is when the adoption of the law is necessary in the interests of the security or defence of the State, in order to remedy the consequences of accidents, natural disasters or in order to prevent difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. Furthermore, Article 90 provides for cases where a legislative referendum is not permitted in respect of a particular law. This is also true when the law, for example, eliminates the consequences of natural disasters. The two laws, the so-called first corona package and its novels and the second coronapack, are of an intervention nature, with which the government indirectly eliminates the consequences of a natural disaster, i.e. an epidemic. Among other things, these two laws contain provisions which, in an inappropriate and inappropriate way, in the urgent legislative process, are constantly amending sectoral legislation, while at the same time they are provisions which, by their nature or content, are not such as to contribute in any way to easier or faster dealing with the consequences of coronaryism or to mitigate this crisis in any way. Restricting the referendum initiative on such a marriage text is excessive and would almost certainly be unconstitutional at the time of constitutional judgment. That the law on which the Government wishes to prohibit a referendum initiative is not allowed to place other non-essential and interventional content, we have warned in the LMŠ and in the other opposition from the very beginning. In these warnings, we were also supported by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in its opinion. In the case of cases: several paragraphs of Article 103 and disputed additional powers of the police, the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government concerning the conduct of municipal meetings, which falls within the competence of each municipality and its statutes, and not least the modification of the appointment of the members of the supervisory board of the SID of the bank. All of these are legal changes that are not of an intervention nature and do not constitute necessary measures to prevent the consequences of the crisis caused by the new coronavirus. For all of this we believe that both decisions on the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum are constitutionally controversial and that we will therefore vote against their confirmation in the LMŠ Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The text is delivered by the Group of Social Democrats, a colleague of Jani Prednik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u28	President, thank you. A nice hello to all of you! On Tuesday, the National Assembly adopted three intervention laws tabled by the Government. We have actively participated in the consideration of draft laws by the Social Democrats. We have also proposed a number of better solutions and addressed the problems of individual categories that the Government or coalition has overlooked. Despite some of the shortcomings of the law, we did not object, since most of the solutions try to resolve the plight of people and the unenviable situation in carrying out the various economic activities caused by the epidemic. 90. Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. For the latter reason, the Government has proposed that the National Assembly on three intervention laws should adopt a decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum. Social Democrats agree that legal solutions must be implemented as soon as possible, while at the same time we are aware of the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service, which says the following. I quote: “We note that in the process of adopting the proposal for a law to which the proposal relates, careful consideration should be given as to whether all the content of the draft law constitutes the necessary measures referred to in the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution. The inclusion of other content could result in the constitutional non-conformity or excessive application of the constitutional prohibition of a referendum and an intervention into the right to a referendum, so that this could prove constitutionally unacceptable in the process of a possible constitutional review of the law.” We are convinced by the Social Democrats that, above all, it is the responsibility of the Government as a bill-maker and the government coalition that the entire content of the legislative proposals is exclusively an interventional nature that justifies the inadmissibility of the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is given by the MP Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of Monica Gregorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u30	Your Honor! The adoption of the first set of so-called anti-coron laws in March has shown that it is necessary to harmonise the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative with amendments to the Constitution in 2013. We have therefore adopted a new law in early April. It sets out the legal basis on which the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, may adopt a finding that the referendum is not admissible for certain reasons. The reasons for the inadmissibility of the referendum are enshrined in the Constitution and include urgent measures to address the consequences of natural disasters. If the Council of State has previously decided not to require a re-decision on the law, it shall inform the National Assembly thereof and it may then take a decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum. So today’s decision by the Council of State has given rise to reasons for taking or deciding on such decisions. With regard to the decisions submitted, the Legislative and Legal Service has assessed that they comply with the decisions of the Constitution and the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative. However, it also pointed out that careful consideration should be given to whether all solutions constitute necessary measures to address the consequences of the epidemic. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are aware that the Legislative and Legal Service, in its separate opinions on the individual laws contained in this package, has warned that a solution to their assessment does not directly relate to the control of the epidemic or the mitigation of its consequences for citizens and the economy, so we ourselves have had concerns in certain solutions, but we are aware that, in cases such as the epidemic, a rapid legislative procedure allowing for immediate action is necessary. Otherwise, severe remedial effects may arise. Even in the case of provisions expressing certain concerns, it is necessary to be aware of the urgency of the situation and also in such situations it is necessary to ensure the functioning of all social subsystems. The fact is that the adoption of separate novels of individual laws would be ineffective, delayed and therefore possibly too late. In particular, we stress that by amending the Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative, we have made it possible to effectively defend the right to a referendum. Each elector shall have the possibility within 15 days of the law being enforced to require an assessment of the constitutionality of the law for violations of the exercise of the right to referendum. In the SMC Group, we will therefore support all proposals for decisions on the inadmissibility of the referendum for all the laws of this second megakronpack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Left Party, a colleague of Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. As we said in the procedural proposals, we object to the denial of the right of referendum to the people. In this law we are specifically talking about 2 billion 800 public guarantees, we are talking about how the Ministry of Finance estimates that the country will end up spending about half a billion euros. We are talking about the way in which supervisors are appointed to the only bank still owned by the State, to the SID Bank, and we are talking about changing the appointment of directors of public funds. These are all solutions that not only will the public not have the right to speak directly, these are changes that you do not even want to discuss. True, the law was adopted at the meeting, but today we are not talking about this law anymore, but we are talking about whether this law is admissible or inadmissible for consideration at a potential referendum. I believe that in times of crisis no one intends to collect signatures for the referendum, but I do not understand why you have violated the previous parliamentary practice and prevented this decision from being discussed at all. Because that's what this is about, Mr President, and all the others you support. Today a precedent is being established, today a new norm is being established as to how these things will be dealt with, and they will obviously be dealt with as you put it today – in the shadow of all other important things and without discussion, neither public nor Parliament. In this I understand nothing but some terrible mistrust of the people, like some fear of my own citizens, and I understand where it comes from. Your government had tremendous support at first. All opinion polls have shown that for many years governments have not had as much support as yours does, but by excessive measures, by measures that have exceeded the fight against the epidemic, by measures that you are instilling in the laws – we have mentioned something today – you are rapidly losing this trust. That's why you're afraid of the referendum, and that's why you're afraid to even talk about it. Those of you in power today have recently said that Slovenia will be another Switzerland. Look, in Switzerland, the referendums are very frank about a lot of things, and we've come to a situation where people don't trust themselves enough to talk about it in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u33	Thank you. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, colleague Andrej Černigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u34	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! We are in difficult times, to which we have not even thought this year’s transition, let alone prepared for them. The exceptional situation in the world and in which the Republic of Slovenia was in the wake of the outbreak of covid-19, requires an immediate response from the country to which the measures and legislation must follow. Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. In accordance with Article 8 of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, a mass outbreak of infectious disease is also considered a natural disaster, meaning that the covid-19 epidemic meets these criteria. By means of these laws, we save the fates of people and businesses in times of severe natural disaster. When we weigh between the right to a referendum on the one hand and the fate of people and businesses on the other, this time we must weigh in favour of saving our citizens and economies in these times of crisis. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats we welcome the decision that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, will adopt, in accordance with the provision of Article 21a of the ZRLI, first paragraph, by which we will find that the referendum is not allowed to be declared. Not because we don't want a referendum, but because we want help to come to individuals and businesses as soon as possible. Every day would be too long in those days. The proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on all three laws will be supported in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats desiring to ensure the immediate and effective resolution of the effects of covid-19. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Msa Kociper, a colleague of the Party Alenka Bratušek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u36	President, thank you. On behalf of the SAB, I will present my position once for all three agenda items and it is common. As has already been said, in early April we Members discussed the amendment of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, which provided the Government with a legal basis for the speedy implementation of crisis laws. This means that the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters will be declared and enforced as soon as there are no further reservations about the possible veto of the State Council. Today, we have three proposals for conclusions that set out the inadmissibility of the call for a referendum on so-called anti-crisis rules contained in the second marriage package to help overcome the covid-19 epidemic and its consequences. In the SAB, we support the Government in all its efforts and measures, which are moving towards the earliest intervention and control of the Coronavirus epidemic. In the process of adopting intervention laws, we have also cooperated constructively and constructively in the SAB. We are aware of what it means to run a country and how important it is to have adequate support in the crisis and to ensure that measures are implemented as soon as possible when absolutely necessary. Unfortunately, our well-intentioned proposals and a large number of amendments have not been accepted and have not been heard. Therefore, the coalition takes full responsibility for the measures taken. Not only for the content of the laws that we are talking about today, but for the whole fate of these laws, including the decision that is being taken today. This decision not to allow the referendum here is a decision to be taken by the coalition, so we will not support this proposal in the SAB. At the same time, we would like to stress that the right of citizens to participate in public affairs management and referendum decision-making is a very important right under our constitution, so we expect the Government to ensure that the Institute for the Inadmissibility of the Referendum does not abuse and does not include in crisis laws non-temporary content and those necessary in other laws as permanent solutions. We will pay particular attention to such abuses in the SAB. In view of everything that is said in the SAB, we will not support the proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, a colleague of Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u38	President, thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! On Tuesday, we adopted three intervention laws at the meeting of the National Assembly, which constitute new measures or additions to the measures already taken by our country aimed at curbing the epidemic and at alleviating its consequences both for individuals and for economic operators. The fact is that the virus spread rapidly from the country of origin and, like most other countries, this wave of extremely fast infectious disease has also affected our country. Our country reacted extremely quickly. The introduction of strict measures was unfortunately necessary in the context of the situation. According to data on patients, according to data from other countries, our country's rapid reaction and, in particular, the conduct of each individual is a truly important contribution that we are not in a complete collapse. Allow me to thank, at this moment and on this site, on behalf of the Members of the Desus Group, all those who carry out the most exposed professions in this emergency and all those who are trying to prevent this epidemic from happening as soon as possible. The policy also had to come together in this situation and we have taken a series of measures aimed at limiting the spread of the virus and protecting citizens. Indirectly one such measure was also adopted at the beginning of this month by the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, which, in accordance with the adopted amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, limits the abuse of the Institute of the Referendum. On this basis, the Government has drawn up proposals for conclusions on the inadmissibility of the referendum on Tuesday of the adopted intervention laws. All three proposals for conclusions will be unanimously supported by the Desus Group. As already mentioned, exceptional rapid action is necessary in the design, adoption and, of course, in the implementation of measures. The adoption of these three decisions will enable the immediate publication of laws and thus immediate assistance to our citizens. I believe that's what we're all looking for. In the Desus Group, we are rational, as the positive position just presented on this point represents the position of our Group of Members for both of the following points. Once again, the proposals will be unanimously supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today immediately after paragraph 2 has been terminated. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the non-admissibility of a legal referendum on the law on amendments to and additions to the law on intervention measures for the control of the epidemic of humane-19 and the favouring of its consequences for the public and the economy. On the basis of Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Kristini Steblaj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The law that we will now vote on on the decision to inadmissibility of the referendum has also been passed by this State Assembly two days ago, and also in connection with this law, the Government has proposed, pursuant to Article 21a(1) of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, the adoption of a decision establishing the impermissibility of a legislative referendum on this law. Also on this law, the Council of State voted at its 14th extraordinary session and rejected the possibility of sending the law to re-decision the National Assembly. We therefore consider that the conditions for the adoption of the decision of the National Assembly on the inadmissibility of the referendum are met. According to the content of the amendment of the already established intervention law, which addresses situations related to the covid-19 epidemic and continues to pursue its content the objectives of the basic law. These were defined as measures to contain the epidemic and to limit its consequences for both citizens and the economy. The outbreak of covid-19 infectious disease required the adoption of a number of restrictions on public life and public gathering of people in the Republic of Slovenia, which resulted in consequences at all levels of society. The exceptional situation is also reflected in the forecast of economic trends. As already mentioned, slow economic growth and the fall of gross social product are forecast. As a result of the situation, social pressures and consequences in other areas of life are expected. There is no doubt, therefore, that the law is fully designed to remedy the consequences of the epidemic, as the measures provided for in the law are intended to ensure the mitigation of the consequences of the epidemic to the widest possible range of beneficiaries by means of measures that have been seen as necessary in the preparation of the proposal for an intervention law. The specific objectives of the proposed measures are to maintain the jobs and operations of enterprises, improve the social situation of people, especially those most at risk from the epidemic, emergency assistance to self-employed persons, improve the liquidity of enterprises, and consequently appropriate enforcement arrangements and bankruptcy procedures to ensure the necessary means for the survival of the population of the Republic of Slovenia. By its very nature, the novelty of the intervention law is temporary because it regulates the content associated with the epidemic and follows the principle of protecting the health and life of people and ensuring liquidity for economic operators. In the light of the uncertainty about the consequences of the epidemic, which is evident around the world, the legislator is not only entitled, but we also assess that it is also an obligation to adapt legislation to and amend the social situation in question if this is dictated by the changed social relations. The urgent measures taken by the State to control and reduce the negative effects of covid-19 on the population and the economy must be as effective as possible and their implementation must be rapid. Therefore, we also consider that the Government also proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision that the call for a legislative referendum against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Interventions to combat the COVID-19 epidemic and to mitigate its consequences for citizens and the economy is not permissible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Parliamentary Group, a colleague of Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. At the general principle level, we are absolutely in favour of the capacity of citizens and citizens to make direct decisions with the only instrument that exists in this country, this is a referendum. Unfortunately, this is not some position the government would share. We are currently holding a meeting where we are dealing with three coronation laws in order for the National Assembly to decide that there will be no referendum on these three coronations. “Hurry up, hurry up,” says the Government. That they want to help. Get help to the economy and people as soon as possible. But when we look at the intestines of these laws, we find that the government is in a hurry to do something else. In these reports of emergency measures against the epidemic, we find more cowardly eggs. Let's say an attack by the Ministry of Finance on the SID Bank and its supervisory board, after six out of seven of Mr Shirtzl's new residents. What does this have to do with the Coronavirus epidemic? What does the Coronavirus epidemic have to do with the government’s legal defeat of naturalists who are freshly excluded from the process? Are the frackings in Petišovci and the Ljubljana bypass, instead of the railways, really taking action against the crown? No, no, no. Another example of the government’s harsh abuse of health problems in the country is that it cements its power and devotes billions of dollars to controversial purposes. Meanwhile, in the same corona law, where we find such cowardly eggs as the prosecution of naturalists from procedures, there is no need for assistance for all groups of endangered citizens and citizens. The unemployed will not receive a solidarity allowance, students are not taken care of, and fee workers are not taken care of. All solidarity allowances are allocated to individuals as a one-off payment, while all aid, which is not measured in millions but in billions, which is intended for businesses, will flow there throughout the epidemic. We are therefore against the possibility of a referendum, as we are against the possibility of a debate being limited. This meeting should take place in a completely different way. All three laws and a decision to prohibit the referendum should be discussed through the working bodies of the National Assembly and at the plenary session, but not only that we have three-minute positions of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today immediately after paragraph 2 has been terminated. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving to 2. Point of the agenda, that is to say the proposal for a decision on the non-admissibility of a legal referendum on the law amending and supplementing the law on early action in connection with judicial, administrative and other public law matters in order to control the spread of the diseaseable SARS-COV-2. On the basis of Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Matico Zupan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u44	Thank you, President, for your word. At its 35th extraordinary meeting on 28 April, the National Assembly adopted a new Law on interim measures in relation to judicial, administrative and other public legal matters for the control of the spread of communicable diseases SARS-COV-2. I'm sorry. I'm on my way. On 21 April, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed to the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, the adoption of a decision establishing the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on this novel. The first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the laws on emergency measures in order to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. This amendment protects the constitutional right to judicial protection and the legality of the functioning of the administrative authorities by allowing for the gradual functioning of the judiciary following the occurrence of a natural disaster in the case of an epidemic of communicable diseases SARS-COV-2. The notice lays down the legal basis for the courts to decide, in non-essential procedures, whether or not to provide for the administration of such acts by the courts in accordance with the conditions laid down by the President of the Supreme Court in accordance with Article 83a, third paragraph, of the Law on the Courts, in such a way as not to extend the viral infection and to ensure the health and life of persons. This allows for the gradual activation of the judiciary and allows for the gradual activation of the work of the administrative authorities. This allows for the gradual commencement of the functioning of the judiciary and the administrative authorities, and not in a hypnotic manner, which could result in the damage to the customers, especially the weak ones. In addition to the gradual functioning of the Court of Justice, it also enables the administrative authorities to act progressively by determining the manner in which these bodies operate in so-called urgent cases. On the other hand, this also prevents the emergence of greater later burdens on courts and administrative units, which will also have to decide on the roles submitted before and during the epidemic. Any judicial backlog may threaten the fundamental constitutional right to judicial protection, particularly in the part where we are talking about the right to a trial without undue delay. In view of the above, the Government proposes that the National Assembly find that the amendment of the Law on interim measures in relation to judicial, administrative and other public legal matters for the control of the spread of communicable diseases of SARS-COV-2 refers to the content in respect of which, pursuant to the first indent of the second subparagraph of Article 90 of the Constitution, the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum is not admissible because the law in question constitutes the law on emergency measures to ensure that the consequences of natural disasters are remedied within the meaning of the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the left-wing group, colleague Željko Cigler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. Throughout all three intervention laws, the government has placed solutions through their contents that are neither urgent nor interventional and have nothing to do with the epidemic, its control or its consequences. It was the legislative and legal service to which some people today referred, through their opinions, that called us to consider whether it was through some of the solutions that are like cowardly eggs and are constitutionally controversial in nature put into these intervention laws or whether it was a matter of solutions that really are necessary or possible to ban referendums. Today we are not allowed to discuss this in the National Assembly, which is a precedent in parliamentary practice. In fact, in all cases, since there has been a National Assembly, the debate has been made possible. Today, with three conclusions on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum for citizens and citizens of Slovenia, we will practically order: "Shut up, you have no right to speak and to decide." That's what we're doing today. With such conclusions, as they are now prepared, and the ban on debate on them, where, as cowardly eggs through them, they try to bring down environmental standards and attack non-governmental environmental organisations, interference with the Local Self-Government Act or with the SID Bank, as has already been said several times today. With these conclusions, we are practically putting and voting for totalitarian and authoritarian authorities in the future. We are practically agreeing to the country where Cady Janez is suing and Cady Janez is suing. Therefore, in Levica absolutely, and probably all other democratic parties that are aware of their roles and importance in this House and the importance of parliamentary democracy, we will not vote. It is indisputable that such measures, which are now being taken through intervention laws, should not be debated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. That's what I'm breaking up with. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. I inform you that we will vote in the following order: 1st, 3rd and 2nd. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 1 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the Inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on the provision of additional liquidity for the economy to mitigate the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. On behalf of the Group of Members, Comrade Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u48	Thank you. We will vote against all three decisions in Levica. We are in favour of not excluding the possibility of direct decision-making between citizens and citizens from so-called corona laws. Direct decision-making between citizens and citizens is a constitutional right, and no government shall, under any circumstances, interfere with this right. After a month and a half of Janez Janša’s government in this country, people have no right to protest. They can only go to church, but they can't protest, they're facing police punishment. They have no right to make direct decisions at the referendum. And if this goes on until the end of the term, people in this country will remain under the rule of Janez Janša one and one right alone, that is the right to vote for the SDS. For everything else, there are pennies and police punishments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u49	Thank you very much. My colleague Jani The President for Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u50	President, thank you for your word. Here, we also agree with our colleague Kordiš. Because of everything that we have also listed in our positions and described as inadmissible, such as certain anti-constitutional articles in laws that we have also warned about through the parliamentary procedure, we will also vote against all the proposed decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u51	Thank you very much. My friend Rudy Bear for the list of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u52	On behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you so much for saying that. You know how much we don't like to hear, "I told you so." But we really told you. When we changed the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, which we need to stress that we did not oppose the changes themselves, because they were necessary – but today we see ourselves in practice here – today we can try this out why we then proposed in the List of Marjan Šarc that such conclusions as we have before us today are adopted by a two-thirds majority. At first, we were all alone with this idea, but that day the idea grew to the point that our proposal was finally supported by all the opposition. And believe me, if this provision were in force today and these conclusions were adopted by a two-thirds majority, these conclusions would be easily obtained by this two-thirds majority. Why? Because, of course, the Government, knowing that a two-thirds majority would be needed, would not push both intervention laws, if I were to express myself in a purely domestic way, of all living things. So a whole bunch of things that have absolutely nothing to do with infecting the epidemic or repairing the consequences. What is the meeting of the congregation, in fact? Is the congregation meeting a natural disaster, for example, a meeting of the congregation council? And because then the government did not follow or the ruling coalition did not follow our idea – of course because of the fact that we would have a decision on two regulated laws that would have all legitimacy in order to make a qualified decision about the possibility of a referendum. I'm just warning and bringing back the memory of why the Marjan Sharca List had this idea at the time, you didn't accept it because it was coming from the opposition species. For this reason, in the List of Marjan Šarc, under points 1 and 3 we will vote against. Unfortunately, there's no other way.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word is given by New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, colleague Joseph Horvat on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia will support all three proposals for conclusions. That means she'll vote in favour. It's just a vote for. I'm sorry, I'm just so raised that I'm grateful for every little thing. First of all, I am grateful to the citizens and citizens here that, as a country of Slovenia, we have respected the decision of the Government and this Parliament in accordance with the guidelines of the medical profession, and that we are the best in this part of Europe in the fight against this terrible enemy, the virus, if not in all of Europe. I'm grateful for that. I am also grateful to the State Council, which has not enjoyed the luxury of seven days, and I am grateful to the Government and coalition partners, on behalf of the Group of Members, that in our proposals of New Slovenia, you have also seen the good measures that we have proposed in the phase of the draft laws. That is also why today the solidarity allowance of 300,000 gets about half the pensioners. I am pleased that we Members are also helping to do this. Today I was in the Sun’s Prekmurje for two hours – people are grateful, you know. People are grateful. They've already learned, we can work together, and you can hold on. We're gonna make it. There is no parliamentary practice with regard to such decisions on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum. It's not. We don't have it. For the first time in the history of this house, we have such conclusions on the agenda, the meeting has been convened and guided, indeed, by parliamentary practice, in accordance with the decision taken at the College of the President of the National Assembly. Decisions shall be adopted precisely in accordance with the provisions of Article 90 of the Constitution, which we amended seven years ago, and in accordance with the amendment of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, which we adopted in early April. Also, yes, our Legislative and Legal Service has found that the proposals for decisions in those respects are consistent, consistent with the cited decision of the Constitution and Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative. We are pleased to carry out the final phase of implementing key solutions to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic. We are aware that those who quickly do, twice do. Time is very important. We do not want to be the second Switzerland, but we want to be the first Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. In your own name? [[Yeah.]] I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u56	Thank you, Chairman. Why should the people not decide at the referendum that the government is increasing its influence in the SID bank? Why? Is this by chance an intervention measure to prevent the virus, covid? It's not. Why should the people not decide at the referendum that the Government, through its action, is permanently interfering with democratic standards and the Law on Local Self-Government? Why should people not decide to lower environmental standards in another coronation measure? Are you taking action against the virus? Nothing. These are the instigators who are contentious, and this should be decided by the people if they want to make a decision. And don't let that happen because you're playing democracy. Why should Members not discuss such important matters at the plenary session, which are so important to disrupt certain standards of democratic procedures? Because you, the President, have planted this time-table on your college and have proposed this time-table, which is a precedent in past parliamentary practice. This has never happened before. In all the cases so far, this has not happened and I will therefore strongly vote against the suspension of democracy and against such anti-democratic norms as you are enforcing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u57	Thank you very much. My friend Luke Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u58	Thank you. I'll repeat what I said before. No one intended to collect signatures for the referendum for these three laws. Nobody. None of the opposition parties and the public really know how much they know about these laws because there were other things this week and from the masks last Thursday to the opening of the municipal borders this Thursday. These three laws are lost. This is not a question of the exercise of the right to a referendum, this is a question of the admissibility of the right to a referendum and the question of democratic procedure in the National Assembly. I will vote against it three times, just like the rest of my colleagues in Levica. Not just because of the content, but because of the procedure itself. In fact, the procedure you are setting today is unprecedented and what this process will look like, we can see above all in the last, third point. 46 Members and Members vote on the law, 46 Members and Members vote that this law must not go to a referendum, regardless of its content, and the National Assembly shall adopt this without discussion with three-minute positions of the parliamentary groups, which, at the end, none of the coalition parliamentary groups will take advantage of. Have citizens now heard why SMC, SDS, NSI or Desus will not allow the third law to go to a potential referendum? They're not. We passed by without a debate. As one of the foreign newspapers put it, Washington Post: “Democracy dies in silence.”
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u59	Thank you very much. My friend Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, chairman. The most ironic thing about today's abolition of the right to referendum is that no referendum has been announced for these three coronations on the table. It was not announced by any group in civil society, it was not announced by any of the parliamentary parties. However, the coalition at the head of the SDS is in such a bloody hurry to adopt its cowardly eggs, which it, by reason of necessity, has planted in the coronation laws, yet it will still overtake and eliminate the referendum. Following recent amendments to the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, it is clear that today's practice is sufficient for the Government to state that it is an urgent proposal and therefore not to have a referendum. 46 Members vote this without discussion in the National Assembly and the referendum is no longer in place. What is really so urgent and related to the epidemic that the financial ministry is impacting the supervisory board of the SID of the bank, where six out of seven residents of Mr Shirtzl will sit after the new seat? What does the Coronavirus epidemic have to do with the marriage of naturalists, which the Government has ruled out by means of these laws? So that he will – what? He can continue to cracking in Petišovci in order to build the third ring of the highway around Ljubljana instead of a much more sustainable alternative, railway. And then even the hypothetical possibilities of the referendum are no longer allowed. That is why I will vote against taking away the referendum from the people under the three coronation laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u61	Thank you very much. My friend Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll vote against it myself. Simply because democracy is not once every four years, democracy is a constant process. If democracy is not a constant process, we cannot call it democracy. And the constant democratic process embraces the public, covers the profession, otherwise democracy is only an arbitrary political decision serving only one party, one coalition, one class. If the decisions are political, if they are not supported by the public opinion, if they are not supported by the positions of the profession, we have masks that are once okay, once not okay, we have gloves that are once okay, secondly are not okay, we have a National Institute for Public Health, which is once okay, then the second time is not okay. If we do not have the democratic process involved in the public and the profession, we can forget that the situation in Anhove and the situation in Petišovci in the Trbów with Lafarge, Magna and so on could ever go well. The possibility of a referendum – and it is not here – I would like to point out once again that anyone has expressed excessive desires for a referendum – is a minimum of the minimum that the National Assembly or the political summit must enable citizens and citizens, or you are, respected by the politicians, here only for yourself and for your interests. As it is said, none of these proposals can be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u63	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Violet Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u64	I will also vote against this proposal, because the Government without opposition is a dictatorship and the National Assembly without public control means the end of democracy. At the time of the adoption of the Crown Act, the Government imposed a ban on the referendum and the possibility of an immediate declaration into the Intervention Act. Then the ZPS suggested that such an arrangement was unconstitutional, and in Levica we tabled an amendment to the deletion and opposed such ideas of the government. The coalition eventually deleted the article and on the same day the government adopted the new ZRLI on this issue. Let me remind you a little bit about how this procedure went. Citizens and citizens who accompany us in this session call for them to remember well who are those who have promised us Switzerland but who have made themselves a beautiful Switzerland and others a strong Swiss. In fact, those are the ones you're dealing with with with sales, commissions and wealth, while on the other hand you're denying people the possibility of democratic decision-making. They have a referendum in Switzerland for every matter concerning citizens and citizens. In short, the government based on a time argument on this necessity to accept it, but you know, it's a lie. The previous package of intervention laws also applies back and all the measures taken to date are applicable back, from the beginning of the epidemic. The Constitution also allows retroactive application to all provisions, but to those which mean more and not less rights. This government introduces more repression, more control, more intervention in labour rights, lowering environmental standards – I am absolutely against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u65	Thank you. The word is from my colleague Željko Ciegler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I will vote against all three laws of the Coronapacket. Why? Because today we are practically voting on – there is a precedent. From now on, it is a practice to limit democratic standards and human rights in this country, on the basis of security, defence or epidemics or any other natural disaster, under this cover. Today, by voting on the inadmissibility of a referendum on these three laws, you will practically agree to this. Why can people be grateful, as says colleague Horvat of NSI? Or is it because the elderly can't go to the store? Because we locked up the pensioners to torture and die in retirement homes? Because we've restricted people's movement? Is that why they should be grateful? What can they be grateful for? Because, under the cover of these things that we accept in these three laws, we pay, to pensioners from 150 to 300 euros, to students of 150 euros, so that they agree that democratic standards and political rights and freedoms are limited in the Republic of Slovenia? I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u67	Thank you. My friend Boštjan Koražija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u68	Mr President, thank you for saying so. It is more than obvious that the government of John Janša is unaware of its limits, or at least it does not want to be aware of them. On the other hand, the constitutional and democratic borders of the current ruling political authorities are very well aware of the citizens and citizens of Slovenia. And what is more basic and democratic in the various processes of our society than that citizens and citizens have the right, the opportunity and the responsibility to stop and prevent such unconstitutional and undemocratic practices and actions in the event of unconstitutional, undemocratic conduct and actions by the ruling authority with constitutional and democratic rights? And that is exactly what this government wants to achieve today with Janez Janša and its coalition partners at the helm – to prevent our citizens and citizens from fighting so much, with the tears and blood of their constitutional rights, and to spread the virus of their non-democracy in the country. You know, it's sad, it's very sad that in this temple of democracy we have to beg and beg for democracy. Since we have always defended democracy, I will, of course, vote against all these conclusions three times and support democracy in Slovenia to finally survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u69	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] My colleague Violeta Tomić, I haven't even given you my word. Gradually, a colleague of Violet Tomic's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u70	Thank you. I ask you, President, to ensure order in the Chamber, because it is really inappropriate not to say how very undemocratic it is to make fun of the views of Members you do not agree with. This is worse than kindergarten. I really urge you to behave with dignity. We don't like your onset either, and we hear them and we tolerate them. This mockery, jumping, shivering, grabbing a head is not part of the National Assembly, so be a coalition a hundred times.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u71	My colleague Violeta Tomić, we understand your procedural proposal and you can find that everything is calm. [[advertising from the hall]] We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members present, with 46 votes against 13. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 13.]] [[Restlessness and advertising from the hall]] My friend Luke Moon is the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u72	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, I predict that from this point forward we will obstruct the meeting. What you have done now, Mr President, is outrageous. Here is our Member, who was tickled from the neighbouring bench, while he was presenting his perfectly legitimate position, he wanted to make a procedural complaint against you, you gave him your word, but at the same time, in protest, the entire opposition put the motion to the vote and now calmly declared the result. This was not the result of any vote. This vote has been irregular and we will not talk in this way in the National Assembly. This will be discussed at the next College of the President of the National Assembly, and today our Group of Members is obstructing this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u73	Thank you very much. My friend Jani Prednik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u74	Mr President, this has been typical proof of what we have been saying in the opposition for the past three weeks. This means that you do not adhere to any basic democratic principles. You are the first to know the rules of procedure, even if you do not agree with the opposition, procedurally is the first thing you have to give to the Member. I agree with my colleague Mesec, and that is why the Social Democrats will also obstruct this meeting or this vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u75	Comrade Golubovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u76	Thank you very much, President. Unfortunately, you have violated the rules of procedure and you have not given the floor to a colleague who has requested procedurally before the vote, and this vote does not reflect the will of this national assembly, so we will also obstruct the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u77	I'm also a colleague of Kociper's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u78	Thank you. As the remaining opposition on behalf of the SAB party, I am predicting obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-30-SDZ8-Izredna-36.ana.u79	Thank you very much. That concludes this point. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the Inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Intervention Measures to combat the COVID-19 epidemic and to mitigate its consequences for citizens and the economy. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members present, 51 votes against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. That concludes this point. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the Inadmissibility of Calling for a Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Interim Measures in respect of Judicial, Administrative and Other Public Legal Matters for the Control of the Dissemination of Infectious Disease SARS-COV-2. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members present, 51 votes against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this item and the 36th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
