ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Iva Dimic from 9 a.m. to 14.15, Ivan Hršak, Dr. Franc Trček until 11.30, Michael Prevc from 9 a.m. to 13 p.m., Luka Mesec from 15 p.m. and Dr. Matej T. Vatovec from 15 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 12. INSTRUMENT OF THE DAYS — ACT ON THE DEFINITION OF PARLAMENTAL INVESTIGATION FOR THE FINDING OF THE REAL STATE AND THE MORITICAL POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CARRIAGES OF PUBLIC FUNCTIONS ON THE STATION, EQUIREMENT, STATION, STATES, SPECIES, CONCERNING, FRAMEWORK AND OTHER COMMUNICATIONS AND THE ACTIVITIES OF THE INSTITUTIONS AND THE CARRIAGE OF PUBLIC FUNCTIONS RELATING TO THE RIGHT TO THE EFFECTIVE CONCERNED TO THE ESPECTIONS OF CRUCIES AND THE ACTIVITIES OF THE INSTRUMENTS 2. 2020 Pending the determination of the subject-matter parliamentary investigation and for the possible amendment of the applicable legislation governing public procurement, welfare reserves, integrity and prevention of corruption, and the alignment of holders of public functions with public funds. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution, a group of 46 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec submitted a request for the initiation of a parliamentary inquiry. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, colleague Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! In the coalition's parliamentary groups, we have decided to request the appointment of a Parliamentary Investigation Commission to determine the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of public function holders on the condition, conduct, stocks, procurement, purchases, storage and other means of obtaining or possessing personal protective and critical medical equipment to effectively prevent infections with communicable diseases and the functioning of institutions and public function holders in relation to the timely suppression of the SARS covid-19 epidemic and appropriate measures, due to suspicions of illegal use of public funds and suspicions of abandoning appropriate measures regarding the timely suppression of the covid-19 epidemic for the period from 1. 2. 2020 until Parliamentary investigation is determined and any amendment to the applicable legislation governing public procurement, trade reserves, integrity and prevention of corruption, and to the conduct of public authorities with public funds, in order to establish, for the first time, the political responsibility of public function holders and the responsibility of public function holders in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia for the state, storage, economy and timeliness of purchases and orders, as well as other means of obtaining or possessing personal protective and critical medical equipment necessary in order to effectively prevent infections with communicable diseases prior to the declaration of the outbreak of cavid on 12 May. 3. 2020; secondly, to establish the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions and the responsibility of the institutions and public functions in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia for the measures taken or unduly abandoned in the period prior to the declaration of the COVID-19 epidemic. 3. 2020 and after the outbreak has been declared, in particular compared to the actions of other EU countries in general and in particular those neighbouring the focal European countries of Italy. Thirdly, to identify the possible political responsibility of public function holders with regard to the situation in institutions responsible for examining, advising and implementing the measures necessary to prevent infections with communicable diseases and their measures during the period prior to the declaration of the COVID-19 epidemic. Fourthly, to identify the possible political responsibility of public function holders in institutions responsible for the examination, advice and implementation of measures and their measures during the pre-declaration of the epidemic, in particular in terms of their practical action compared to other EU countries. Fifthly, to determine the possible political responsibility of public function holders in relation to procurement, storage and other ways of obtaining or possessing personal protective and critical medical equipment purchased, stored, obtained in a different manner or allocated for the purpose of effectively combating infections with infectious diseases in terms of transparency, professional fitness, legality, timeliness after the outbreak has been declared. So the debate on this subject was already large, including the charges and so on. So far, it has been found that, at the time of taking over the operations of the new Government, the warehouses of protective equipment were empty, that the purchase of protective equipment on the world market was already greatly hampered and from day to day more expensive. While professional and healthcare professionals were concerned about the lack of protective equipment and warned that they would not be able to carry out their work as they should. In line with the plan that this country had at the time of the epidemic, central procurement was then organised by the Department of Commerce Reserves of the Republic of Slovenia, which then also contributed to the relatively timely delivery of sufficient protective equipment. We estimate that measures in the crisis situation have been successful in a timely and efficient manner and procurement. We estimate that in the first wave of the epidemic, Slovenia was able to protect the health and life of its citizens in the fight against the virus. In doing so, it was not so rigorous among the countries that recorded the least fatalities and measures in Slovenia. However, procurement procedures also show possible errors that will be verified and checked by both competent authorities and this new Commission of Inquiry. In the event of irregularities of abuse or infringements found, we will act in accordance with our competences. Then I'll explain something further in terms of what my colleagues and colleagues will say. I estimate that the Commission of Inquiry will do its job, and I have already run the Commission of Inquiry in another case. We've also filed charges, and there's been a lot of cases. As in many cases we have not met, we have met some procedures that are not completed, and we can only wonder what our judicial authorities are doing, that despite the evidence provided to the investigative authorities there are no conclusions. The Commission of Inquiry will certainly provide answers on the responsibility of those in charge of procurement, as well as on whether or not matters have taken place properly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, a colleague of Franz Jurša, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u4	Mr. President, thank you for your word. It's a good-bye to everyone. In certain cases, politics is very similar to chess. Time and planning of moves is important if you miss the right moment, no move will help you correct mistakes or make plans. In certain parties, we see that what often happens from the process and counting on early elections to the promises of parliamentary investigations and constructive non-disclosures, but that the playing of victims when the opportunity is late is not a good picture, decisions have to be taken and the consequences of such decisions must be taken. Although many were surprised that we had overtaken them by asking for a parliamentary inquiry, it seems to me that this is not a suitable response. As of 15 April, in the Desus Group, we expected the opposite party to submit a request, but nothing has moved, a wave of sword, a lot of words of accusation, which culminated in a test of interpretation against the Minister of Economic Development and Technology. Only by submitting a request to the investigative commission, which we are signatories to most of the members of the Desus Group, has the opposite party been inspired and tried to submit its investigative request. But they forgot that the coronavirus crisis around us began before the work took over 14. Government of the Republic of Slovenia. They took over a fire, almost untouched, without equipment, without a rescue plan or a fire extinguisher. And with the parliamentary investigation that we want to establish today, we will be looking for political responsibility from the beginning of the Coronavirus crisis, which some have still pressed their heads into the sand to order these parliamentary investigations. The differences between the two texts are obvious, while the missed opportunity of the opposition investigative commission would seek out the observations, meanings, conditions, procedures will be the investigative commission set up behind today's act and where welcome to participate all representatives of parliamentary parties have challenged their fundamental means – identifying political responsibility. In the parliamentary inquiry to be determined by the adoption of today's act, we will therefore seek political responsibility from 1 February 2020 to today. We will also focus on the findings of the actual state of responsibility of the holders of public functions for the condition, handling, ordering and procurement of protective equipment. Particular attention will also be paid to the functioning of institutions and public function holders in relation to the timely control of the coironavirus epidemic. However, let me stress once again any irregularities that may have occurred during the course of the course of the epidemic will also be checked by the competent authorities. If personal exploitation has taken place, we expect the competent institutions to take appropriate action. However, I note in the Desus Group that the opposite party, which draws much inspiration from the newspaper articles, wants to undermine work and effort 14. Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And after they successfully dealt with the epidemic. This is rude and unhygienic. You had your chance, but you gave it to another.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following word shall be given to the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Comrade Zmago Jelinčič. Checked out. Then the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, colleague Lidija Ivanuša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Good-bye! We have before us a request for the appointment of a parliamentary investigative commission on the provision of protective equipment and measures by institutions and public function holders to combat the spread of COVID-19 disease from 1.2.2020 to the determination of the parliamentary investigation. The outbreak of COVID-19 broke out at the end of 2019 in the Chinese town of Vuhan and spread from there very quickly around the world. The first case of the virus in Europe was found in France and Germany by the end of January 2020. In Italy, where there was also a major outbreak in Europe, the first case was found in early February and in Slovenia we confirmed 4 first infected. 3. 2020. the COVID-19 epidemic had to be responded quickly by the European Union countries, in particular due to known experience from China and Italy, it was essential to provide protective equipment for hospital and health personnel. In Italy, a large number of health workers were infected in China due to lack of protective equipment. On 20 February, the conditions were met for the institutions of the European Union and the Member States wishing to participate in the joint procurement process. The then government of Marjan Šarca did not respond in a timely and appropriate manner, since it did not define personal protective equipment as basic supplies. Only after a number of calls from the Medical Chamber and Health Institutions is the Government of the time 27. 2. 2020, decided to use protective equipment from supply reserves of 48 000 protective masks, 5,000 overalls, 500 000 gloves and dust for disinfection, but without specifying that this equipment is quickly replaced and adequately complemented with situations of appropriate quantities. 13. On 27 February 2020, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore adopted a decision to release from stock available safeguards that were sufficient only for a few days. However, it ordered the Slovenian authorities to replace the funds issued by 31 December 2020. On 3 March, the World Health Organisation found that since the outbreak of COVID-19, the price of personal protective equipment has increased significantly, for example, the price of surgical masks has increased by 6 times, and the price of N95 respirators has increased by 3 times. The World Health Organisation has also found that the supply deadlines for protective equipment have increased enormously and that goods may last for several months, as well as for market manipulation to spread, and that stocks are often sold to the highest bidders. These findings should also be an important signal for appropriate action in Slovenia, but this has not been the case. Article 2 of the Law on Stocks provides that stocks are to be created to provide basic supply needs for major market disturbances and instability in the face of major natural and other disasters and in war. However, the Government shall decide which goods are included in the basic supply, when they are used and replaced by stocks. In view of the already known facts that adequate protective equipment should be provided, that security equipment in Slovenia is insufficient, that the quantities of this equipment are limited due to high demand on the world market, the Government should define adequate protective equipment as basic supplies and immediately initiate the procurement procedure, but 13. The government did not do any of the above in due time. 14. The government has sworn 13. 3. 2020, in the evening and with its work began the first night. The first thing they had to face was empty warehouses of protective equipment, equipment that was in our Government's warehouses at the time of transfer, not enough to protect health workers for a few days, but others who were directly exposed to the risk of infection. The activities of the new Government had to be rapid and effective. In the SDS, we support the establishment of a parliamentary inquiry aimed at determining the possible political responsibility of public function holders for the state of stockpiles of protective equipment and critical medical equipment before the outbreak is declared on 12. 3. 2020; finding the possible political responsibility of public function holders for the measures taken at the time before the outbreak was declared, in particular in relation to the actions of other Member States of the European Union, establishing the possible political responsibility of public function holders with regard to the situation in institutions responsible for examining, advising and implementing the measures necessary to prevent infections with communicable diseases, and their measures at the time before the outbreak was declared, also in relation to the actions of other Member States of the European Union; identifying the potential political responsibility of public function holders in relation to personal protective and critical medical equipment for the situation, stocks, behaviour, availability, storage, orders of personal protective and critical medical equipment purchased or obtained in other ways in order to effectively combat infections after the outbreak of 12. 3. 2020 until the purpose of the parliamentary investigation is determined; the determination of all aspects of the liability of public function holders and, beyond that, to identify and specify the possible liability of the holders of political public functions by examining all suspicions of possible illegal conduct and possible abandonment of due conduct; to verify any aspect of the legality of the procurement and supply, including appropriate tax and customs treatment, affordability, storage, disposal and verification of equipment; to identify the responsibilities of public functions in relation to timely ordered equipment and to make it more effective and prudent to establish domestic production of protective equipment for these purposes; to establish the appropriateness of the applicable legislation governing the procurement, supply reserves, integrity and prevention of corruption and the conduct of public functions with public funding. As has already been said, we will support the establishment of an investigative commission in the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, a colleague of Brana Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u8	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have already talked a lot about the acquisition of protective equipment and the role of individual coalition politicians. A little more than a month ago, in the List of Marjan Šarc, we prepared an interpellation of Minister Restovalska and clearly demonstrated in what controversial, opaque and inconvenient way they ran business with protective equipment and medical equipment. With the help of the way you took it, the government has given the selected companies a high margin. At that time, we have proven political responsibility to Minister Počvalšek, and he is immune and protected. In a democratic and legal country, such a minister would have been a former minister, and without interpretation, he would have been dismissed by the President of the Government. But we are far from a country in which someone is responsible for his words, his actions, assumes political objective responsibility. We have recently heard and read about Members accusing the police of listening or following them without evidence. The government illegally changes the director of the SURS because he works lawfully. He's replacing the director of the National Investigation Office, discrediting criminals. He's attacking and trying to subdue the media. Vice-President of the Government Party, who advocates in the opposition that the policy must be withdrawn from the economy and become President of the DARS administration. The Minister insists on his irrevocable resignation, they hold another minister for one day because of the suspicion of corruption, and he sees no reason to resign. A third minister writes letters, dispatches that are not abroad, the president of the government insulted Bosniaks with morbid provocation and could even list them. By handling the current government, the current coalition is moving the Slovenian political normality into extremes. All is permitted, nothing is prohibited, and for every irregularity there is an excuse for further cooperation. They're covering each other's backs. You become dependent, this government no longer has any moral brakes, no integrity. But despite all the smoke bombs, the fact that the Government has made it possible to acquire protective and critical medical equipment through policy-related intermediary companies. That's what this government has made possible. You bought highly overpaid equipment somehow or even inappropriately, useless to health care and the general population. By their actions and actions, at least four members of the Government made it possible for the electorate to deal with 100 and more percentage margins, transactions that are full of suspicions of corruption. That wasn't enough. Before the end of the epidemic you started to rescue court suppliers with annexes, the consequences are obvious, huge damage to public funds. The Government's affairs, in particular Minister Restovalska, are also being investigated by the National Investigation Office, despite exchanges at the summit and despite the pressure on the police for a week by the irrevocably withdrawn Minister Hojs, who is said to have been misunderstood. This was indeed helped by the irrevocably dismissed Director General of Police. The audit of business and protective equipment and fans is also carried out by the Court of Auditors and I hope that you will not prevent it. If we go back to the police investigative commission whose subject matter is five points. It's a pure scheming maneuver. Even though you are predicting an investigation into disputed transactions during the time of the government of Janez Janša, this will not happen. Why? As the Commission of Inquiry will lead the SDS, the majority will have a coalition with the SNS, which is a partner of this coalition, and because the Commission will investigate the previous Government in the first four points of the case in the first five, as it aims to investigate the period before the outbreak was declared or since 1. 2. 2020 to 12. 3. 2020 or until the outbreak is declared. You will investigate Marjan Šarc and then lead the National Institute for Public Health, creating various structures for political purposes, as you know. However, the fact is that if the Government of Marjana Sarca and the National Institute for Public Health, with all stakeholders, did not respond to COVID-19 in a proportionate manner, and this would be significantly worse from the first half of January 2020 to the public in a uniform manner. The documents prove this, but you just have to look at them. Everything wasn't perfect, nowhere in Europe was it. Neither was everything dependent on the amount of protective equipment, and here we have shown you that you have been greatly deceived. All measures were implemented in a proportionate manner, and in the end the ban on public events, the closure of the border with Italy, the closure of schools and kindergartens, until the Government was replaced. Something similar or at least you try to do something similar, even though the number of people who are actively infected is similar to what was then, if not even greater. But the difference is, none of this makes anyone as panicking as you did. Your purpose was clear, create chaos and then show yourself as a savior, your mode of operations for the last four months. The last or fifth point of the item, which you will not investigate, concerns your business, your trade, your trade, your trade. If masks and fans were weapons, your purchases would be a new arms store that can't be investigated. Therefore, these 5 points will never be investigated, its epilogue on an investigative committee led by the SDS and in which you will have the majority will never be. You've done this once in the past. In your request, you placed this 5th point of the case only to prevent the opposition from investigating your work in the purchase of protective and critical medical equipment. Everything else is swindling, colleagues and colleagues, really purely seductive. With this act in the SDS and SMC, with the help of New Slovenia, you stole the possibility of the opposition investigating acquisition during this government, the fear of your mags presidents. The tonin and the restroom are just too big. This is all a clear indication that by this manoeuvre you are protecting your two ministers and your two presidents, who are crucial to the existence of the coalition, the price is irrelevant, the interests of individuals, the interests of the coalition are against the interests of the state and the interests of the truth. If an innocent person has nothing to hide and leave, he does not even make a request and insists on an investigation that will not be cast into doubt. Dear colleagues, there are acts, there are words, but all of them are strong in words. Being brave in words is one thing, being brave in your actions and letting the opposition lead the investigation against you is another, but it is nothing new in this beautiful new yellow blue world. Dear colleagues and colleagues, all of this could be avoided today if you were in the interest of political hygiene, but no, you were using a business trick, a fraud and with the help of your President of the National Assembly to block the opposition from investigating your work, the work of your government and thus going towards the purpose of Article 93 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Let me remind you of all the suggestions we've made to you. We have proposed or called for the coalition to establish an investigative commission and investigate the duration of the government of Marjan Šarc and the opposition is investigating the period of the government of Janez Janša and your response is not a respected coalition. We have further suggested that we set up an investigative commission together, led by the opposition for hygiene and not by your answer. You're in the service of truth, a little bit different from the truth that we understand. And you will set up an investigative commission today, and you will know that without a vote, you will have your president and you will have a majority. But we do know that whoever has the chairman of the commission runs the whole investigation process, is an alpha and an omega investigation. Let me just list some of the key powers the President has. The President shall convene and chair an investigative committee meeting, issue an order to carry out investigations, determine the place and time of proof. It sets out the order in which the interrogators, witnesses and experts are questioned, sets out the order in which the evidence is to be carried out, and finally submits the report for the decision of the National Assembly. In fact, you and your president, who will come from the SDS and most of them, will have a hand over the investigation and the course of this investigation. The coalition also says not to complain that the coalition will have a majority in the investigative commission. Why would you have a majority? You will have most because the party Zmage Jelinčič, the Slovenian National Party, is the external part of this coalition, a partner of the coalition. You have now signed an agreement, and it has already supported everything the Government has asked for. So that we are not misunderstood, there is nothing wrong with this, everything is legitimate, but let us stop pretending that the Slovenian National Party is the opposition – no, it is part of the coalition. By blocking the opposition, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition to lead an investigative commission in the opposition to investigate the acquisition of protective equipment by the Government of Janez Janša, you have shown that words such as democracy, constitutional values, statehood, political hygiene, honesty, truth and so on do not mean much. In setting up the commission of inquiry, you used a low-level business trick or a scam, as I mentioned earlier, to avoid a thorough investigation into the transactions in question involving your ministers. Let me illustrate, lawyers do the same when defending criminals in court, always looking for every procedural gap to solve their clients - usually the goal of delaying proceedings or finding evidence - but also some have quite a few experiences. But what is important is that your ministers can now sleep peacefully, as their friends, their protectors, are responsible for investigating their business. Fortunately, it is also run by the National Investigation Office, despite the fact that you demolished it and discredited it yesterday. Finally, colleagues and colleagues from NSI and SMC, I remind you of your words that you will be signing under the opposition's investigative commission. Today we know that it was a fraud and that you were secretly preparing your investigative committee. And today we understand that, too. You were protecting your two presidents. Every school costs something. We believed in the unwritten political gentlemanhood of you, if this is not already the case with the SDS, we believed in your given word, but unfortunately you didn't know how to hold it either. As you did not know how to keep your word in the election of the Constitutional Judge and Andraz Teršek was not elected, then you wondered how this could have happened. The fact is, we can no longer trust you in anything. But we do not blind ourselves in the List of Marjan Šarc to what the goals of this blind maneuver are. Your first goal, based on the constructions, is to attempt to politically discredit the previous Government and President of the most powerful opposition party, Marjan Sarca, and thus divert attention from your mistakes in solving the crisis cod and from your suspicious business. And the second objective is to prevent the investigation of corruption in the purchase of protective equipment and to protect Janez Janša, Matej Tonin and Zdravko Restovalska. The very honesty of you is and the desire to find the truth itself. But something is very clear today that you are setting up an investigative commission to protect your ministers, despite the knowledge that you were only involved in business under the pretext of crisis and in some for political survival. Today, it is undeniable that infections do not worry you too much, otherwise they would have acted differently. Now that the transactions are completed and the sponsorship contracts are signed, the crown is also less sinister. Don't be ashamed of what you're willing to do to hide your jobs and some of you are trying to survive politically! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The next is the Group of Social Democrats, a colleague of mags. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! After us are the gruesome months of discussions, discoveries and numerous controversy, so here, in the National Assembly, through commissions, committees and debates on the interpretation of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, and in the media, and not least among people, what has happened to the acquisition of medical equipment. It's people who have this problem that's the most important thing. When they showed a truly incredible amount of solidarity, assistance and all the forces in the most difficult times, they pointed at us as soon as possible from times of crisis. And what did they get to thank you for? I'm sorry. Nothing good, no encouragement. They have received and are still receiving more and more information today as different networks near the ruling coalition allegedly took advantage of the crisis in the procurement of protective and medical equipment. From everything that has been said so far, starting with the Commission for Public Finance Supervision at the request of the Social Democrats, there is no promise of anything good. Moreover, any discussion with or without players, as well as ignoring the invitations at the meetings of the committees and committees, has been quite considerable, has shown that the dimension of all alleged irregularities and abuses is even greater and deeper than it seemed at first sight. Therefore, we have also considered that it is reasonable in this matter to set up a parliamentary commission of inquiry which could focus and definitively establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, with regard to the purchase of medical and other protective equipment available to the Coronavirus. However, it is important to point out that this is not a primary political issue, but a question that is even more numerous questions that our citizens and citizens rightly ask themselves, and that is why I do not see the manoeuvre of the coalition, which is that it overstepped the opposition by making a request for the commission of inquiry itself. As most likely represents a coalition for some huge deception, how to overwhelm the opposition, but by acts of ignorance, of deception, of buying time, which I believe will eventually or earlier reveal what has actually been happening in the multiple ten million purchases of protective equipment. On this issue at all, the ruling majority in this National Assembly behaves as if they are living in some sort of alternative reality, even in the light of the promises made before the last elections. That is why today's request for an investigative commission is just another act in the long line of acting on democratic norms and erosion of democracy and parliamentary control. Or, as the Legislative and Legal Service has stated in its opinion, I quote: the nature of the supervisory parliamentary inquiry is generally intended to investigate the irregularity, non-professional and non-disclosure of the executive administrative branch. This stigma will now be run by a coalition majority that will control its own ministers and holders of political responsibility. From the record of the parliamentary inquiry request, which we can only hope to have material legal effect in the context of this requirement, the constitutional rights of the candidates of the request of the opposition groups of Members and Members until the parliamentary investigation is determined and that the initial requirement of the group of Members and Members of the coalition is now truly adequately supplemented in the case, purpose, scope and motions of evidence. We can only hope, as the Legislative and Legal Service has written down, that the substantive legal rights of opposition candidates who have submitted their request for a parliamentary investigation will be realized in this way and ensure that the parliamentary investigation is carried out properly for all in this National Assembly, although the bitter taste of coalition hide-and-seek and procedural games remains. And we can only hope, or expect, that the Commission of Inquiry, in its work, will be able to get through to relevant and relevant documents, which will not be a propaganda pamphlet, as the Government has brought to the National Assembly before, in the form of a government report on the acquisition of protective equipment. Otherwise, there is no doubt that we will listen to these golf and Mercedes in the future, and it is really necessary to determine whether the fleet may have been full and, above all, whether the golf carts purchased had the right tires to drive or if only friends bought a useless body. I have no doubt that we will not listen to these empty warehouses, but they forget to mention that the politically responsible person for these warehouses is the third government and the sixth year in a row are the same. There will be an excuse for everything if the deep state is not to blame. Even if this were likely to remain in a closed envelope, it would not appear to be an irrevocable stepoff. We can only hope that the National Investigation Office will do its work as soon as possible before the National Assembly. Whether this parliamentary commission of inquiry will succeed in identifying political responsibility we do not know yet, but we do know what the former Minister of the Interior and today the current secretary of state was thinking about the opposition's house investigations with the ministers. I quote: "Extreme investigations do not just do so, but on the basis of court orders and in the case of suspects of crimes, which the Minister is definitely and the political reality is quite clear, the Minister should step down immediately." Dearly beloved, all that has been going on with regard to the alleged controversial purchases of medical equipment is too much to be restored only in the position of all concerned chronology. Which no more resembles than a difficult criminal series, rather than an event in a democratic society where such things are to be definitively cleared up by those responsible and have consequences. It is also premature to say if this commission of inquiry is successful, but it is essential for its success, so the key and relevant, especially what has been greatly lacking so far, that the responsible instead of shaving the lunatics from our people, ridicule all the questions where and why hundreds of millions of our money went to work and take over their share of the responsibility, only so that we will restore to people at least some of the little dignity that has often been abusing and insulting performances, tweets and publications taken and trampled. [[Incomprehensible]] Here, no investigators will help, no sessions, no calls, but primarily some minimum moral compass, which I hope is not yet completely imaginative in coalition parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Members' Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of Matey Udovč.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u12	Dear President of the National Assembly, fellow Member and fellow Members, a good day! The debate on the acquisition of protective equipment is given today's proposal with a parliamentary inquiry order, a chapter that is more intended for political accounting than for clearing out the correctness or irregularities of the first measures to protect against the coronary epidemic. This is also confirmed by two requests for an investigation order and a series of procedural complications of the applicants. We do not want to address events from a few weeks ago, because they are still completely fresh, events that once again have shown us how important it is in politics to feel for the right moment, for the moment when it is necessary to speak and for the moment when something needs to be done. The two requests for a parliamentary investigation order on the same case constituted a kind of legal paradox, but the Legal and Legal Service clarified the case in no uncertain terms, accepted the coalition's initiative, which first submitted a request for application and acted with all seriousness. We extended the first request for a parliamentary inquiry order to the requirements which led to the proposal of most coalition parties. We did not do this because we would like their expectations and the reasons for the investigation to neutralize, bypass, or otherwise overlook. We have done so because we want the work of the new commission of inquiry not to cast a shadow of doubt, bias or subjugation on the interests of the coalition. We all know that the parliamentary inquiry by the Institute of Parliament is complete and the composition of the Commission cannot be changed or adapted in any way to the interests of the applicants. There are as many votes as there are in Parliament, so in this particular case this means that there will be a majority of the opposition. Its legitimacy, because of this fact, is not in any way distorted, and it will be further strengthened by the fact that its existence and work in the interest of all political parties of this call, by the opposition, because it sees an opportunity to win a political battle, and by the coalition, because it wants to relieve disproportionate pressure and further attributed guilt by the work of the professional and lay public. And while politics is not about predicting the future and the power to anticipate a breakdown of events, when temperatures are up in one way or another, we will risk asking all parliamentary groups in Parliament to participate in this investigative committee and work, contributing to its work in order to carry out its work professionally and to conclude it with a credible report. For nothing will be more burdensome for all of us than for the investigating commission to experience possible rejection by the work of political parties. Daily-political recalculation, party shares, can also lead to such a move, which we will not be able to understand differently from an insulted and unstated act. If all of us who signed up for the order of one or the other parliamentary inquiry really led us to clarify the relevant facts for the public, and if all of us were guided only by an interest in finding objective facts, then we must admit that in the thermal case we have more in common than we do in this case. It is common for us to want to acquire protective equipment to the bottom and to be sure of all the circumstances and data relevant to the protection of the public interest. We also want to be able to obtain and judge this information as soon as possible. We also share the fact that, through the work of the parliamentary investigative commission, we want to evaluate the responsibility of all those who have participated in and decided on the acquisition of protective equipment. In the SMC Group, we have no problem taking into account the proposal of all parties, because, as we have already said many times, we have nothing to hide. Finally, it may be regrettable that he has proposed the establishment of this commission because the conclusions will not confirm his expectations, wishes or even needs, so it is all the more important that the subject of the purchase of protective masks and other protective material be considered in full, in the longer term and in the current time frame. Remember that the whole world has faced similar and even worse problems than we have in Slovenia. It is correct to establish the possible existence of political responsibility on the part of all the actors involved and, if any, criminal and indemnity liability on the part of the competent professional institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The Group of the Left is next. My colleague Miha Kordish is not here. Next is the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, colleague Alexander Reberšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! In early May, New Slovenia, together with coalition partners, submitted a request for a parliamentary inquiry into the state, conduct, stock, procurement and acquisition of protective and critical medical equipment to effectively combat the covid-19 epidemic for the period from 1 February 2020 to the determination of the parliamentary investigation. It also covers the purpose and scope of the parliamentary inquiry on the same subject proposed by opposition parties. In Novi Slovenije we said that we would contribute our signatures to the investigative commission in the National Assembly as we wanted any suspicion of non-economic procurement to be verified and found out the facts. That the media and the bar don't operate on unverified assumptions. We waited for a good fourteen days for the opposition to prepare a request for a commission of inquiry, but since it was not there, we tabled a proposal for an investigative commission together with the other parties to the coalition. In New Slovenia, we want the investigation to identify the potential political and other responsibility of public function holders for the state, economy and timeliness of purchasing and ordering personal protective and critical medical equipment, as well as for measures taken or unduly abandoned in the time before the epidemic was declared. We would also like to see whether it would not be more prudent and effective in the short and long term in order to establish domestic production for the production of protective equipment. It is right that matters concerning the acquisition of protective equipment be clarified, and it is right to move these debates from bombastic media encounters and streets to the National Assembly to reach the bottom to find political responsibility. At the same time, in New Slovenia we also call on other institutions, the police, the NPU, the Court of Auditors to get to the bottom as soon as possible, so that the Slovenian public can see what was happening as soon as possible at a time when the market for defence assets was not governed by normal market conditions but by the Mafia situation. I would like to point out that both I personally and in the New Slovenia Group support the investigative commission, we advocate full transparency and all must be investigated in order to cast aside certain suspicions, all of them. We want to build trust and break with the practice of another system, when there were first-class, which should not have been investigated, the practice that we had unfortunately witnessed in democratic Slovenia, and which has caused some citizens to lose confidence in law enforcement and in the judiciary. We want this trust to be restored. We want citizens to trust law enforcement, the judiciary and the government. It is therefore appropriate to refer the whole matter from biased media reports, from the streets and behind the bars to the Commission of Inquiry and to all competent national authorities to investigate the legality and cost-effectiveness of business. And to examine anyone who has anything to do with procurement and measures before and during the epidemic, left, right, it doesn't matter at all, we all answer to the state and citizens. In Novi Slovenije we were the first to support the Commission of Inquiry initiative, so we certainly support the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry on the acquisition of protective equipment. The objective of New Slovenia within the commission of inquiry on the acquisition of protective equipment is one – and this is the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratovšek, a colleague of Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u16	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Both the coalition and the opposition have submitted to the National Assembly each of their requests for a parliamentary inquiry concerning the procurement and procurement of protective and other equipment that was urgently needed during the epidemic. On the basis of the opinion of the ZPS, which found that two investigative commissions could not operate on the same topic, we have only one of the two requests for parliamentary investigation on the agenda today, and that is, coalition. The Coalition has drawn up a copy of the requirement, which also takes into account part of the opposition's statements. Among other things, they extended the investigation period from 1 February 2020 to at least a few. As Bernard Kirk said [[?]] Governments must rule, but strong governments need strong opposition. And the task of the opposition is to re-set the coalition with a mirror, to point out irregularities and to present a contradiction to the ruling authority. More. We are called upon to monitor and make professional criticisms of the government's actions, so it would be only reasonable and proper for the opposition to take on the role of the President of the commission of inquiry. In the SAB, we advocated that the lead-up of the investigative commission be taken over by one of the parliamentary parties, which is not a member of the current government, and was also not part of the previous government, thereby ensuring a higher level of objectivity of the parliamentary investigation itself. In the SAB Group, Alenka Bratušek, we have repeatedly stressed in the past that it is necessary to investigate if one of the members of the previous government misused the epidemic for so-called war profit and in this case call it to account. The most controversial and unusual way to determine the parliamentary inquiry that we are talking about today is to investigate ourselves. And in the Commission itself, it is known to everyone that they have a majority, since the SNS Party has clearly provided them with a vote by signing the agreement. I just remember that the same thing will happen to the SDS Money Laundering Commission, which will be led by a member of the coalition, and this will be interesting. I have also repeatedly pointed out that the coalition has abused the epidemic at the expense of which certain individuals have uncontrolledly spent public funds and, as I have said in the past, it is necessary to save money in times of crisis, not to spend taxpayers' money. Therefore, an investigative commission is needed to explore all aspects of the purchase of protective equipment, both current and previous governments. In the SAB Group, we are in favour of holding offenders accountable in the event of the infringements found. In doing so, we stress that the two parties were part of the former coalition and are now members. In both governments, the key three pillars led to the fight against coronavirus: economy, defence and health. That is why it is difficult to point to the previous government as a whole. At the time of the adoption of the first anti-korona mega law in the SAB, we proposed first a special parliamentary supervision, which would be on guard over the use and allocation of public money. In the second anti-Korona marriage package, we went a step further and proposed the establishment of a specific budget fund, with which at any moment we would be able to tell exactly how much money we have invested in solving the crisis. This would test the use of public money, for it is too late to ring the bell. We're not getting our money back. Now we can only determine whether the funds have been spent transparently and economically. Things need to get to the bottom and let individuals answer for their actions if violations are detected. For the money of taxpayers must be dealt with transparently, effectively, carefully and in the spirit of a good master at all times. The SAB Party will participate in the coalition's investigation committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The first one has the floor, there are no colleagues of Kordish, Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you, President, for your word. Good-bye, everyone. In recent months, we have debated a great deal on the functioning of the executive branch in times of crisis at the committees and meetings of the National Assembly. Both in the area of the acquisition of protective equipment and the functioning of the health system and the care of the elderly in nursing homes. The opposition is clear to the current government in particular that the government has consciously taken on the acquisition of protective equipment through intermediaries, primarily in order to enable individuals to make a great deal of money. It is right to move from the late detection to concrete evidence, and the parliamentary commission of inquiry can investigate these. Personally, I am also asked the question: Why did the previous Government, even though it did only current business, fail to do its job? Why she did not arrange for the purchase of protective equipment, not the origin of intermediaries, not by direct orders from manufacturers, and so that the equipment could be obtained in a timely manner. She simply failed to perform her constitutional and legal duties. In the worst crisis, she left the warehouse almost empty and it is also right to investigate the parliamentary investigative committee. I would also like to know if Sova did her job and warned the Prime Minister of that time of the outbreak of the virus in Chinese. I would also like to know when the former Prime Minister of the Government was informed of this and why he did not act. I am asked whether or not the individual minister or the Prime Minister of the Government, who did not take care of the timely order of protective equipment, will defend against Slovenian citizens and the parliamentary committee that he has left the citizens naked and bare and exposed them to dangerous infections, endangering their lives or ordering and providing protective equipment and defending himself against possible procurement irregularities, and has provided this equipment for health personnel and citizens, thereby protecting the lives of our citizens. And that's exactly what the current government has taken care of. Probably in this chaos, there have been some irregularities in the purchase of protective equipment on the world markets, and it is right for the authorities and the parliamentary commission of inquiry to investigate possible irregularities in the procurement of this equipment. Commissioner Lenarčič also pointed out the issue of the purchase of protective equipment, which stated that sometimes, when the demand went far beyond the offer, it was difficult to ensure an order, as there were problems with the quality of the equipment and the desire of some for quick profits. The whole world was facing such a situation. And if there is any good in this crisis, it is that this crisis has clearly shown that we do not have a systematic way of reacting in Slovenia in such situations, so it is also right that the parliamentary commission of inquiry also investigates the systemic and legislative arrangements of this area and possible shortcomings and proposes legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much. There's no Pogačnik's friend. He's next, my friend Baković isn't here either. Dušan Verbich, next.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for saying that, President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! Introductoryly, a few words are certainly needed concerning the parliamentary commission of inquiry of the National Assembly. And here is my key introductory question: To whom is the Parliamentary Investigation Commission of the National Assembly, which is legally very well regulated in the Law and Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, and the question is to whom is it addressed) Voters, the public, political parties in the National Assembly through sent groups, law enforcement authorities in the Republic of Slovenia or Members. My modest opinion is based on three investigative commissions, 5 billion bank holes, TŠ 6 as well as the laundering of Iranian money, that there is no special effect on voters, the public and law enforcement authorities in the Republic of Slovenia. However, it has a great role and importance for Members who preside over the individual parliamentary commission, because they appear in public as guardians of public money, and in their subsequent findings the rule of law does not act in the interests of justice and its citizens. It is significant for the parliamentary commission of inquiry that they are very soon taking over their name in some way after its presidents. I will touch on these three that can show from past activities the good and bad aspects of action and conclusions. The Logari Commission, which was somehow under the chairmanship of the SDS, was a 5 billion bank hole, a state-owned bank related mainly to NLB, NKBM, Abank, Probank and Factor Bank. Then we had the Hanžk Commission, which was based on the Levitical Group, a project of the so-called Salek Lobby amounting to €1.4 billion, which, as a rule, took place through the political party of the Social Democrats and the third Möderndorfer Commission by the SMC Group of Iranian Money Laundering, amounting to €1 billion. It follows from the activities of all three commissions that the work has been successfully completed, but unfortunately the law enforcement authorities and, as the rule of law has said, have not performed their mission. I still have to touch the latter here, because this Möderndorfer Commission has continued to work to identify the alleged money laundering in NKBM and the financing of the SDS political party, and unfortunately, it is not in any way enough in a year and a half to complete the interim report. As stated by the Commissions, they have been handed down to law enforcement authorities, the epilogues after a few years are very modest, and here again the question is where the legal state is linked to the billions of injured taxpayers, not to mention the substantive, criminal or criminal liability of the managers and the supervision of the said investigative companies, which were generally state-owned. Which persons have been identified as politically responsible as holders of public authority in these parliamentary investigations and also as so-called objectively responsible. I will give you some names: Borut Pahor, Franci Križanič, Marko Kranjec, Alenka Bratušek, Miro Cerar. And where are they mentioned today? Some are still very active in the Slovenian political space and, if I may conclude this part in the first place, so much about the impact of parliamentary investigative committees of the National Assembly. About the point of today's order. Nevertheless, it is necessary to look at and specify the following: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Mr Marjan Sarec, must have been familiar with the situation of the epidemic in China at the end of 2019. The first cases officially appeared in Europe, specifically in France 24. 1. 2020 and Germany 27. 1. 2020. This is the day that the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Marjan Sarec, resigned. It is less likely, or his awareness that he will not be able, in the composition of the current coalition as Prime Minister of the Government, to deal successfully with the outbreak of the 12th. 3. 2020 is also officially approved in the Republic of Slovenia. Regrettably, indeed and regrettably, this reality was that the Republic of Slovenia was not prepared for the so-called covid-19, and this for health institutions that themselves purchased protective equipment for their needs, homes for the elderly, as well as the Department of Freight Reserves, so that I will not talk about taking care of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Now, why there was such a poor state of readiness in the Republic of Slovenia is primarily known to the Government under the leadership of Marjan Šarc or the competent department. It is therefore appropriate to establish and establish a political responsibility for the poor state of health supplies and subsequent purchases at the time of the epidemic around the world, in which the supply and demand market worked primarily on the principle of who gives more and more priority to cash payments when taking over protective funds. For this reason, I also agree that it is necessary, in particular, to draw a conclusion, namely, the so-called objective responsibility. Notwithstanding my introductory part of the debate, I can say that I am a little more optimistic in this matter, because before the work of this parliamentary commission of inquiry starts, the law enforcement authorities, the police and the prosecution are already very actively involved in the content, but also the Court of Auditors and the KPK. It means the simultaneous activity of those institutions, as well as the proposed parliamentary investigative commission. That is why I am more optimistic in this case in view of the final effect or effect of the parliamentary investigative commissions of the National Assembly. And that is why I support the proposed investigative commission and I want it to work effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The next one is colleague Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Today we have heard in the introduction of a presentation of views quite a few statements and, of course, very different views as to what these investigative commissions are. I believe that a few members of the National Assembly are still convinced, of course, of their own needs, that when the Commission of Inquiry fails to explain the story and list what investigative commissions have succeeded in the past and which, when they do not, they clearly want to argue the opposite. But the fact is that the parliamentary commission of inquiry also has its history, especially in terms of how Parliament has dealt with it and how seriously it has taken it in the end. If we go to look in fact, we will find that at the beginning of all the investigative commissions that were set up, the slaughterhouse ended and did not have much looting. Of course, over the term of office, this has changed more and more, and we can see that in the previous term, in fact, all four parliamentary commissions that carried out their work have also had a positive profit, which means a positive message. Does this mean that the investigative parliamentary commission has experienced its political evolution? No, no, no. No, no, no, no. It will experience its political evolution in terms of maturity when, of course, it will also have a final epilogue to politics alone. Since the Commission of Inquiry finds political responsibility, which means that when policy decides and takes political responsibility for individual political actors, this means without discussion, of course, also a political retreat and, of course, also some political hygiene, that these policies no longer take place in politics. Not nearly as many as some imagine that someone would give up, but then someone else says that they didn't open the envelope because now it's a different time and a little bit of thinking and so on. You know, it's not in the spirit of some kind of political hygiene. It can't be. Let me get back to the investigative committee. Of course, this commission of inquiry, which we are talking about today, has its own purpose. This purpose is very clear – to determine the political responsibility of actors in the procurement of medical and technical equipment for covid-19 purposes. However, it is now necessary to go to the very starting point of how this has become so politically prestigious that, at once, the coalition and the opposition would like to have their own investigative commission at the same time. Those who are seriously following the creation of this commission of inquiry will be able to see very quickly that there is a lot of clarity and connection and call after the already known conclusion and epilogue of this commission of inquiry. Where we can see this – we can see it mainly in the actors who have prepared this report we discussed, the State and Reason Report, the stocks, the orders of personal protective equipment and critical medical equipment when the SARS covid-2 epidemic is declared and procurements that have enabled Slovenia to successfully deal with it. It is said that a political pamphlet, or epp, is the material of a coalition that explains all the facts that speak only for its benefit and nothing else. If the commission of inquiry is led by a coalition with its President and a so-called majority with a political party who is their signed partner in this coalition, which means, in other words, you support our proposals, it means that the seizure of this commission of inquiry must not and cannot be different from this report. Because if he's different from this report, then that means the immediate fall of the entire government, because that means the government lied. However, the coalition will not propose conclusions and a finding by the Commission of Inquiry which would be contrary to this report! However, the conclusions you have, what this report has identified, are more than clear that it has even identified criminal matters for its political opponents and even proposed solutions to how this should be regulated under the Penal Code. Well, that's all the investigative committee has to find out. But how can you achieve this — you can only achieve this by setting up your commission of inquiry, with your president, and creating conditions that look beyond the fact that the opposition is leading this coalition, and in fact you have all the leverage to be able to drive and decide what kind of spoil it will be. Remember, it is the President of the Parliamentary Commission who must submit the report, not the members of the commission, but the opposition who knows what else, but the President must do so. And on the basis of this report, it is then decided whether this will be changed or whether it will be positive or negative or otherwise. And the other thing that's crucial to this whole thing is the following. You know, the commission of inquiry has to have time. Regrettably, the majority of Members of Parliament still think that the work of the Commission is the interrogation of witnesses in the investigation. Sorry, that's not true. And, unfortunately, it's only 10% of the commission of inquiry. And it's true, unfortunately, that's all that's visible to the public. Everything else that goes on behind closed doors - and usually the commission of inquiry has more closed doors than public meetings - but it is invisible to the public. Hence, some today, weeping because they have no idea what an investigative commission is, say, “even though how many witnesses he has heard ” No matter, three or a hundred, the effect is, of course, elsewhere — in the seizure and in the evidence that you can perform, that is all that counts. [[…]] The third thing that is very important is that the story is very mixed with the investigative committee, because some would like to go to the investigators and the prosecutors, but they've already condemned everything, all on average and so on. And it's good for some people, and it's good for them, because that's the way they do it. That is why the role of the President of the Commission of Inquiry is crucial, or it can plague this, because not least, you know, the statements made by the President of the Commission of Inquiry are made by the President of the Commission, the President is the one who reports on the work of this Commission and, last but not least, creates a public opinion, so that if we go to look at the creation of this commission of inquiry, how the coalition envisioned the creation of this commission, unfortunately, I am today convinced that the scissors and canvas for the creation of this commission of inquiry were SDS and no one else, the New Slovenia was not dreaming, and the text to Desus was even less, but they were only informed. Before me is a document with only the coalitions of the party in no way opposition. 5. where the draft commission of inquiry and more or less clearly states in this document what the purpose of the Commission of Inquiry is. And those who can read a little and understand how the documents of the commission of inquiry are written, or for the creation and establishment of the committee, can of course see what the purpose is, and if we go to look below 5 and 6 we will see that the purpose is to find out what the potential political responsibility of the holders of public functions and the responsibilities of the holders of public functions regarding the acquisition of protective equipment is, everything beautiful and also usually has every investigative commission, and then there is one small detail here that slightly distorts the whole story. I mean, the dates that are written in there are from 12. 3. 2020 to 25. 4. 2020. These dates later disappear from documents in the records of the Commission of Inquiry. Why are they important? Those of you who have little memory know that the report I spoke about earlier was announced for 25 days. 4. Then, for some unknown reason, Prime Minister Janez Janša has been stalling this report for a week, and he's being mauled in the government, maimed, maimed, and finally he's only 5 years old. Get out on the table. But the investigator, the investigator's draft was made before the report was completed. What does that tell you? It tells you that someone had a very clear plan and a plan of how they're going to take the whole story away so that they have scissors and a canvas in their hands to decide how things are going to go wrong. So to say that this is an investigative commission that will discover the political truth, see, no, two arguments I gave you, the coalition itself will not collapse its government, and if it finds anything contrary to this report, bye-bye this government, which is nonsense, show me one SDS man who will vote against his supreme boss. Please, that's ridiculous. That's irrational thinking. And that's why you can't believe it. Second. The way this investigative commission was formed is more or less clear and third, which is not irrelevant, but in particular how this desire was after, let us investigate, I remember my former party colleague, who even suggested that we establish and lead the opposition this investigative commission, and when I told him how he would lead this investigative commission of the opposition, but if there were no signatures of the opposition on the request for an investigative commission. Nor did he have any idea how the dynamics of the commissions of inquiry or the establishment of the Commission were actually running. I can tell you today, just tell me who will be the chairman of the investigative commission and I'll tell you the conclusions on how they'll run, and it's not like there's gonna be any president of this investigative commission. Why am I saying this? Because it's very important who runs this investigative committee. In the end, let me get this over with. Someone who stole the chocolate from their mom in the kitchen, I'm going to banally say that it's going to be very understandable, they can't eventually investigate this act who stole the chocolate from their mom in the kitchen, they can't, but that's exactly what's going on with this investigative committee right now. Now the one who has done these jobs will explore how he has done these jobs well and positively and honestly in the end. I'm asking you nicely, because cows that can't laugh now are laughing at this whole story. In short, it will be interesting to watch this story, and it will be especially interesting if this is over in four, five months' time, this smile that we have in this mandate, which would be the most ideal for this commission of inquiry and the actors and signatories want it most not to experience its epilogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The next one is colleague Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman. Personally, with regard to the initiation of parliamentary investigations regardless of who the person is or is also of the kind of government coalition from the government coalition side, I have no problem. I will, of course, support every commission of inquiry. I would say that the circle of work of Members is firmly bent in the direction of investigations and the finding of various irregularities in the Republic of Slovenia. And here I ask myself, are we Members of Parliament who are about to carry here to say the main work, the main task of identifying all irregularities? Are there any other bodies here that should carry out this task more consistently? If I look at a whole series of investigative commissions that were already in the National Assembly, an investigation into a bank hole somewhere between 4.5 billion and 5 billion, I would say legally stolen money from state banks, then irregularities in the construction of TES 6, then also the purchase of cords and, of course, a billion euros washed over Slovenia, so-called Iranian money. And if certain authorities in the Republic of Slovenia were to carry out their task in a consistent manner, in fact, we would not need Members to be subjected to so much investigation and, with these irregularities, which are enormously large, cause enormous financial damage in the Republic of Slovenia, Members would not be stabbed today. It is very sad that not all the same rules apply in the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, I will give an example: if an individual owes 30 euros to the tax administration and does not fix it within a period of time, of course, first within one month of the expiry of the DUR payment, he will receive a reminder. If this reminder is not paid, then the financial management through the employer actually gets this payment because they physically remove this obligation from his salary and so this debt is actually paid. But if the banks with the agreed places steal somewhere between 4.5 billion and 5 billion money - have we traced any of the epilogues? The so-called Logar Commission has done an extremely good job. Various cases were also clear, evident. One thing I can say, a company with one employee gets a so-called agreed loan of 20 million, and someone can explain to me how with one salary this beneficiary of this loan can pay off this loan and can have such a good company. It's hard, it's hard, it's really a piece of work, and that's what happened for the bad 5 billion. Today, no court epilogue from this address. It is also through the Republic of Slovenia that a billion, a little less than a billion so-called Iranian money, are being washed. And the commission of inquiry on this subject, have we seen any epilogues today? We didn't. That's what they say. We have different standards in court. And justice has a name in two words, that's right, justice, isn't it? That's right. I wonder if that's the right name for our judiciary. Is that the right name for our courts? Justice is supposed to be the right thing to do, okay? However, in all these cases, I am asked whether this name is the right of our judiciary. Of course, irregularities can be said to cause harm to our national budget or to the wider country of the Republic of Slovenia, more and more. On the other hand, it is also necessary to commend our authorities for doing a good job, but that is not enough. I don't know this area enough to judge whether there's a human resources problem or if there's a problem of ignorance. Because we know that today every transaction is traceable, in fact no transaction can be hidden. Although, I would say the most fashionable tax evasion in the last 10 years, where private companies across the quasi-foreign partners abroad write fictitious accounts, of course without work done, because we know when the transaction is done three times, the trail is lost behind this money and the state budget is damaged and, of course, the country of the Republic of Slovenia is damaged. So something in this area is already going on and on. I personally believe that too little and that it will be necessary to say that these tentacles, where the budget is actually escaping from the budget itself as part of the revenue, will indeed have to be closed with a more up-to-date part of these bodies investigating it. In short, I support the parliamentary investigations, but unfortunately there is no maladministration of the epilogue. This is said, and this is a key step that is missing here, and in fact, certain authorities here really are completely concealing. I wish that this practice would not continue and that the epilogue of all these well-substantiated findings would also end and thus, I would say, end some link of irregularity, which often happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u25	The next one has the word of a colleague named Monica Gregorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Today's investigative commission, which will be set up, will have the main task of investigating the entire procurement of medical equipment. And it is right that in these research activities, it goes completely to the beginning of procurement, to the beginning, to the core of the epidemic, because it is only in this way that a complete picture can be created of the role or how the government, the former government with partial powers or the government, in its resignation, has been able to carry out these urgent acquisitions of protective medical equipment or, rather, how it did not perform them. I expect this investigative commission to provide answers for all the actors involved in the proceedings from the start. In fact, if we look a little bit more closely at the whole picture, then it's clear, then we can see that an affair with protective masks or for the acquisition of protective equipment is actually a staged affair based on manipulations and structures, of course, all in the function of overthrowing the government. This effort to overthrow this new government has lasted for several months and the hysteria is actually bigger every day, and the opposition is somehow losing its compass with all the things that it would do, what ideas all the more to get, to soil essentially the most difficult moments and the most difficult decisions that we have witnessed, and which this Government had to make at the beginning of the epidemic with the first day, at the first hour when it took over its function. Why is that? Why is there such a thing as overthrowing this government? Yes, there are, of course, business, leverage, leverage to financial resources, which the current opposition is drying up, and somehow the flow of money is also drying up. In fact, we all know that the procurement area of medical equipment was already well ahead of the epidemic of some area of the grey economy for dedicated suppliers. This has already been done by one other investigative commission, which has reached certain conclusions, but interestingly enough that, for example, law enforcement authorities, the NPUs did not engage as much in that case as they did in the investigation or with what, they did not hurry up with such house investigations as Minister Restoralska did in that case. Yeah, well, it's breaking up, certain politically conditioned transactions are breaking up, and these dedicated suppliers are in a situation where there's an epidemic and a huge shortage of protective equipment, but somehow they've hidden it. They were overtaken by others with some other business connections and, in fact, the biggest problem is, the biggest sin, if you want, these governments. And it is good that they were able to outrun them, because they are in a situation where they ruled the medical equipment market, when they ruled the wild west, or what the mafia situation is, that they were able to get and get these protective equipment, because if they didn't then, then maybe a month or two later, they could get coffins or barbecues. But of course, as it is said, some court vendors have lost their money supply, and some overpaid supplies have been cut short, which, if I sum up the words, some insiders are also measured in lengths of yachts in sailing marinas. I therefore believe that this Commission of Inquiry should also touch on the wider field of healthcare procurement. As it is said, it is also right to investigate what has not been done in time in the context of the purchase of a protective medical premium. Today, in the position of some parliamentary groups, we have also heard again that some ministers were also ministers in the previous government and should have taken on this task earlier so that they did not carry out their tasks. But the Ministry of Economy in its description of the area does not have a defined central procurement of medical protective equipment, this has already been cleared. The Department of Commerce Reserves is only an organ in the composition of the MGRT, acting on the basis of five-year plans to be set by the Government as a collective body. And it is the President of the Government who, under Article 14 of the Government Act, gives them guidance for work, duties and controls them, and this explicitly states Article 14 of the Government Act. But the problem is that the president of the government, who was then, was no match for his mission. It is very unethical, therefore, that in your particular emphasis or struggle to regain power, you are further prejudiced by exposing the problem of the situation in the homes of older citizens to abuse the situation and their disease process in an immoral way, when we know that they have been severely affected. But the way in which the Health Committee and the Labour Committee met this morning, where a list of deaths has been dealt with, you know, it goes beyond all limits and no politicians should afford it, these are very sensitive moral issues. What's bothering me about all this? It bothers me that our former coalition partners, with whom we were together in those last February days and the beginning of March, well know how difficult the situation has been. We fought together, knowing that the situation is critical, but today you deny it, which is really not right. I think one day you too will be called to political responsibility because of this inadequacy of yours. To not be able, for example, to condemn illegal wiretapping and recording to the minister, this shows all about how far in the opposition you are willing to go in the fight for power. I expect that this commission of inquiry will also respond to the role of John Gallet, the so-called whistleblower, the scenic. However, let me point out that every prosecution of superiors is not yet a whistleblower, because the fact is that the signatory is quite a few key contracts, something even the most controversial, and the commission of inquiry, I hope, will also explore all the circumstances and the true nature of Mr Gallet's engagement, which is certainly linked to the preference of certain suppliers beyond the Ministry of Economy's direction. I also expect that the role or purpose of Mr Galet's informal meetings with the President of the Court of Auditors will be explored. According to the President of the Court of Auditors, this is not unusual and it is also lawful under law that the Court of Auditors directs and advises and sends a procurement authority to properly carry out procedures. However, I personally doubt that this is done in such an informal manner and on such an unbalanced relationship as, for example, an official and, on the other hand, the President of the Court of Auditors, and that there is no official record of this, written conclusions and some guidelines for work. The fact is that we are now in the second wave of the epidemic, and all those who have been involved in these procurement processes of protective and medical equipment today feel somehow unfairly accused of some things that I deeply believe are not able to take advantage of in times of some very difficult situation for us all. So I fear that the entire structure of the opposition will be able to return as a boomerang after the results, the conclusions of this commission of inquiry are known, and then you know that all of you who are riding on this political wave today will be called to account by the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Next up, colleague Andrej Chernigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u28	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! Slovenia, Europe and the world have been forced to face a number of challenges that have fundamentally changed our actions, opinions and even our perception of life. Who among us would have thought that just one small virus could change our lives and create chaos? And chaos was also in our domestic politics, not in the parties of the then opposition, but in some parties to the coalition. It was already torn and the minority coalition did not find a common language. The changes in management personnel, if I quote Mr. Prime Minister, the then Prime Minister "if I want to make a difference as a new man, then it is imperative to make a staff exchange" did not produce any fruit. Their opposition partner, Levica, showed the horns to the ruling party of the List of Marjan Šarca. With his last media spin, he wanted to call citizens and citizens to elections at a very serious time when the invisible enemy COVID-19 had already walked through our doors, and the people did not fall for this serious and state-of-the-art proposal. And let's go back to becoming a new coalition. She received empty warehouses for her welcome. Unserious treatment of invisible enemy, skiing abroad and collapse of almost all public life in the Republic of Slovenia. Together we rolled up our sleeves and quickly and in a state-of-the-art way began to solve the problems and hardships of everyone in our country. This coalition did not have two years of laziness, had not 100 days of peace of opposition, but a very eager opposition that had learned its error and their angry struggle to return to power. Our empty warehouses and abnormal global demand for medical equipment and caregivers have created a very distorted picture of supply and demand, for a short time chaos. Slovenia was not the only country, and other countries around the world had problems at the very end of the day, as well as the European Commission. We are aware that he who works is also a sinner and that it is primarily after battle that he can be a general. And this general wants to become today's opposition party after the battle. The parties to the opposition's investigative committee announced, if we are precise in the Marjan Sarca List, on 15 April 2020. There was no day when the parties mentioned were operating on the facts and half the truths every day, most of the time in the media. Therefore, in the coalition after 20 days, colleagues and colleagues, after 20 days, we applied for an investigative commission. The opposition then managed to file its own investigation commission a few hours later. I cannot help but feel that the opposition wanted more than to write an application for an investigative commission, rather to compete in front of the media who would have more media performances. I am absolutely in favour of the Commission of Inquiry itself, and I also support a thorough review of the functioning of the current and previous governments, once and for all, it is necessary to examine thoroughly and thoroughly all those that were in any way related to procurement and measures before and after the epidemic. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – we were the first to support the commission of inquiry on the acquisition of protective equipment, so I would like to reject all half-truths and non-truths once and for all. Finally, I want the committee to do a successful job. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadav Ushaj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Very nice greetings all my colleagues and colleagues. Let me begin by reminding you of what is essential. It has been said many times that in nursing homes they worked without protective equipment and in fear of placing the virus in the home. Therefore, the only desire that all health workers had, in addition to fear of course, was to have enough protective equipment to protect the residents, themselves, and their loved ones. Since protective equipment could not be obtained in the country, they began to help each other. But that wasn't enough. They didn't have anything. He said good-bye to those who could turn to him, the then Prime Minister Marjan Sarec with his team. He was not interested in how the problems caused by the lack of protective equipment would be solved. In the area of health and social care, they were not interested in where masks would come from and what their price would be, only to get them. Despite the lack of protective equipment, employees in health and social institutions have been conscientiously taking care of the needs of the elderly for the needs of those in need of health care. As soon as he took over the leadership of the government of Janez Janša with his team of ministers, those who had previously hidden themselves in the holes began their work and efforts to mud the media and we had to listen to how the opposition colleagues suddenly knew all about the acquisition of protective equipment including the procurement process. The story has been included by journalists of our public RTV house, which we all pay, which is even more absurd when citizens and citizens have to watch a unilateral report on the subject under consideration. With all these actions, it has been clearly shown that this is not about solving problems in the country because of the epidemic, but about overthrowing the government of Janez Janša, who has successfully taken a bite to work. And their work supports more and more Slovenes and Slovenes as they see with all the further moves made by political parties from the opposition that their only intention is to take power. It is precisely for this reason that the need to launch a parliamentary inquiry is necessary as, in addition to the Court of Auditors report and the KPC, which are already investigating the correctness of the procedures for the procurement of fans and the political responsibility of public function holders, will give clear answers to the open questions raised regarding the acquisition of protective equipment. The investigation will also take place at a time when the government is still leading Marjan Sarec in order to obtain a comprehensive review of the situation, as it is crucial how much basic supplies were available in the commodity reserves, as well as whether acts to infect or prevent the spread of the SARS-COVID-19 virus were launched in a timely manner. It is also essential that we get answers from the investigation to open questions about suspected legal conduct in the acquisition of protective equipment. This will allow us to give citizens and citizens a clear picture of what is happening in this area as a whole. At the same time, I am surprised that a colleague from LMŠ is setting up a case with lawyers defending criminals. It is sad to compare the work of the government of Janez Janša with that. That says everything about you. You do not care about citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but only greed for the rule. Did you forget that the warehouses were empty when you left and that the government of Janez Janša acted in line with the national plan for the outbreak? Thus, a central supply of protective equipment was established. That is why we will support the parliamentary investigation in the SDS Group in order to bring the truth to the day, even from the time that the government should take responsibility and act. The truth will come on the day, or you may be afraid that the truth will come on the day that Mr. Gale led the acquisition of protective equipment. Maybe you'll find out in the end that it would be better if we didn't start this investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Marko Bandelli. But get ready, mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I think that our words of the Sab Party were already very clear in the very view of the establishment of the same commission, if you say so, only the establishment of this commission as such. I'm here, the only thing I can say here is that this commission is going to look lame, because when the Commission examines itself and examines their own work, that's not going to work, that's logical. This is clearly stated that this commission, this is all one farce, because you know, ahead of someone for two hours who wanted and had already announced the other commission, and the other committee is a drawback, but that's how it happened, and it came about legitimately. Now that we are part of this commission, if not another, we will keep an eye on the work of this commission. It would be fair to have the president of the opposition, I think that would be fair, but one word is a little strange in this coalition. The only tool that we will have at the end of this year is to announce the final report already, and I think we can give it to all of the opposition what the final report will be. The only tool we have here is to write down a separate opinion at the end, because I think we're going to have it, because the summary of the entire commission will be known, it was nobody's fault, they did everything because they saved lives, everything was legal. Looking for money out now is impossible. What some of you have mentioned, including Gallet here and there. I think Gale is a great hero personally, in my opinion, a "hier" would have more Galets in Slovenia to hope to tell you once what's going on in these institutions, what's going on in the background of these pork purchases, if you say so, and we know exactly that it's happening everywhere. I'm not speaking the case of masks, I'm talking probably the case, everywhere where public money happens such and different things. So don't tell me about Gallet, someone, my opinion is that Gale is one big hero and he hoped, if I could say it in person, to the giant. This was David versus Goliath, if you know the matter. He hoped and said his own, so I respect him and also all those people who are constantly advertising and looking for justice in this country, that little justice, because I think it's right to have it. I'll also say it honestly, I don't personally care why he decided it was that he did it that way. I want to know, it's important to me that he made up his mind, not why, but that he did, that's a big difference in that he didn't scare anyone. If we went, what would this committee be looking for? This commission will seek some political responsibility. What we have seen in all of these, how many discussions have already been on this account, I think there have been quite a few of them, how many committees have been on this account, there have been some. We all know exactly how it went, how the interpellation went to the minister, and we saw it, because we couldn't have been different. He's not forgiven for all his sins, you know, when there's a vote and there's a vote and there's a vote, and he's looking at things with a different eye at what happened. Since the truth is such and I think that we will achieve nothing here with this committee because I am sure that, in this way, you still have the majority, as I said before, by having the Slovenian National Party sign an agreement with you outside the coalition partnership, everything has already been said here. So any matter is going to happen, but with all due respect for the Slovenian National Party, I don't know, they didn't want to join the coalition, but now they're giving them support at every turn. This is also a little questionable, why, what are the real interests in the background? For every single thing, everything's fine. [[Incomprehensible]] Mah, their business, I won't deal with them. Mainly, you also mentioned, I've heard about empty warehouses three times. This is where everything is going to be reviewed and talked into this account. I don't know why you speak so much as if the previous government was really responsible for these warehouses, if they were then, the actual situation was completely different, different from what it is. Who ever thought he'd be down in 14 days. Who thought that? Nobody. And the reserves that were in stock, I mean, what was in stock was just by the book that said it had to be. It can't be any different. Half happened what happened and normally the need was greater after certain medical equipment and the problems were because there was no global access to certain devices or these protective equipment and what happened happened. This is where the real problem arises, which the commission now has to find out. Here, the commission has to find out why it's so amateuric, if you say so yourself, it's getting at once. Why did certain people pour in supplies? That's not what I'm saying. I'm reading. And if the press wrote it down, it means they have evidence because we've seen the e-mails. Anyway, I mean, I don't understand anything. How many Members have intervened here and not reported their lobbyist interests? We even read about Mr. Janš's wife. Yeah, you know, look, if you're right about the problems, see that doctor over there can help you. What one woman says to you, of course you'll think and you'll comply. You don't have to write it in writing, because if it is. That's what I'm saying, because that's half the commission that's gonna find out what's wrong. I think it's more important for the committee to find out why? You tell me why, once we find out that it was overpaid, the prices were three times higher than any other case. Then why was the order still made and a certain order was carried out, knowing exactly that the products were not the ones required. Every normal company, institution, institution when you sign a contract with them and the goods aren't what was ordered, you refuse. And you don't care what happens to him. It's his responsibility if he didn't give what was signed in the contract. What are you doing? Now it's been signed again I don't know how many millions of masks we've been saving some companies. Here are the responsibilities that will have to be reviewed in this committee. Do you want them? We'll demand it. We'll ask the committee to do that. Are we gonna get the right results? Are we gonna get the right numbers? Ma, I think we're gonna win. That's the only way we're going to be able to prove these things. I mean, literally, the situations that have arisen have been solved with such a rough purchase performance, an amateur purchase performance, an unjustifiable purchasing process management system, that it's crying. And how many times have we done this before? And how many times each of you are bragging about it, we've saved lives. Of course we saved lives, but one mask doesn't save your life, you know. One mask, one mask, especially one that we have when your doctor tells you that these medical masks don't need anything, you know. I trust the doctor. In surgery, you know what this mask is supposed to say, the surgeon told me. This mask in surgery just needs to be cut off on a man's table so he doesn't spit in your eyes and blood everywhere you need to, that's all he said to protect your face. He literally told me, a surgeon. It can't be. You need to look at the microns, how many microns COVID has or this SARS-COV-2, like a coronavirus and how much protection this mask in microns, you will see that it does nothing at all. Nothing. We're wearing masks. And it's okay, because it's okay, because if they make that decision, we're gonna keep wearing masks and we're gonna buy them again for no idea what the price is. At the time, I was solving the mask problem when I first set up those catastrophic products that we had seen 15 times everywhere, thank God that we showed and reported to the public what was going on, because if we were to then keep quiet, that crap from the mask would be going around the factories today, the fire department, the health centers, the homes of the pensioners. [[Incomprehensible]] Let's once put that mask on because I put it on, exactly three minutes ago, four minutes ago, I couldn't be in it. Why am I saying this again? Since this will also probably excuse the purchases, the product is mine. It's a product. Then what did we achieve in the end? We have also achieved that this manufacturer of this material started to manufacture and process machines in his industry and started to work at a very low price, you know, from 28 cents to 30 cents. And when the public knew, why didn't you go into it? Why did you confirm at the end, those masks that were in stock, missing, no certificates, no certificates, no nothing at all, could say that we saved the man and the company that brought up the mask. Why? Is that how we deal with our tax money? Is that how we do it? Here, here, I mean, the work of our commission. I hope that I, too, will now, these commissions, and believe that I will be very active in this and you will not just keep the matter quiet and you will not just hide the matter and at the end of the reports we will also say it as it should, because I think it is mandatory to say it. Vice-President, I will be so much on my side for this matter, because I think it sucks, because here we are just setting up this committee now, talking and time to talk and say and debate on this we will have and believe that we will talk a lot more about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much for your discussion. He has Mr. Shisko first on a procedural basis. The procedural proposal has priority. Mr. Shisko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u34	Madam Vice-President, thank you. Look, please let the colleague who discussed before me tell him not to mention the other Members of the Slovenian National Party, because we have checked out at this point and we do not have the possibility of a replica, so I will just say procedurally here. But I'm surprised that today, oddly enough, a colleague has a mask that has a certificate, but the last days he always wears a sponsor's upstairs mask. And I don't believe that mask has a certificate. And as far as this committee is concerned [[…]] [[background advertising]] Yes, it is, a procedural proposal, because you mentioned our client and please don't abuse our client. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I cannot and will not interfere with the substantive debates of the debaters, I believe that Mr Bandelli has heard your procedural proposal, which was not the case, but I suggest that we proceed with the debate. The proposer made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. So crying and cattle, because we have prepared an investigative commission rather than the opposition, is a little inappropriate, just as you have done before slowly and so on, we just go and do things. We were told we were two hours ahead of schedule. That's not true. That day or the day before our proposal to set up an investigative commission, the head of the LMŠ Group, Mr Golubović, said, "We will table a proposal next week to set up an investigative commission." So we didn't break anything. According to the Rules of Procedure, a number of Members may propose the establishment of an investigative commission, and we have also done so, after hearing for quite some time that the opposition will do so, and this was nothing but something else. It was said that whoever runs the commission of inquiry, is an alpha and an omega, this is determined by it. This is true, most of the work is usually on the President, but all members are equal, equivalent to the committee and can carry out their work very actively. Indeed, many times in the past it has been that the main burden has been on the President, who pursued an investigative commission. However, this does not preclude any member from being active and cooperating. In fact, in some of the investigators, members of the Commission did not even go to look at materials and materials, while they discussed matters regularly. At the very least, he is called to speak, how and what about investigative commissions, but he is probably a colleague of Jani Möderndorfer. Several times he was called upon to extend the investigative commission he led to the illegal financing of one party. He was repeatedly invited to extend this to other parties. And so informed and so confident and so capable has refused this every time and the Commission has never accepted this in order to extend the verification of whether it was illegal funding to any of the other parties. This tells us all about how he imagines an investigative committee, which was really set up just to deal with SDS and label it with illegal funding. And in two years, what he was leading, he didn't find anything. Everyone can have an opinion whether Mr. Gale is a hero or not. His role is likely to be demonstrated by the investigation, and only then will we be able to discuss it or be placed in the place he is going. Colleagues from the Party of Alenka Bratušek report to others that they responded to the invitation to cooperate. This is reported by the Slovenian national parties and others who have been invited to participate. See, the invitation to participate means that before, before public hearing and before other proceedings, you get access to the law and you can also influence it, suggest and so forth. So if Alenka Bratušek had decided to do so, then she would not have to invoke any extraordinary meetings where she wants some laws earlier and so on. [[…]] This is how we worked in the period 2004-2008 and it worked out as a good thing, and that is why we have also proposed this at this time. Those who wanted to be involved in it responded, those who didn't, but their business, you can't force anyone into anything. But don't cry so you don't know what and how, if you don't want to cooperate. More than once, there was talk of empty warehouses and so on, and who knew there would be a problem after fourteen. We knew. We have requested a meeting of the Health Committee, demanded that some things be clarified to be said. Mr Zakrešek, Director of the Reserves, said that he had repeatedly launched a proposal on coordination to buy, but they always said not to panic and calm down. And that acquisition didn't happen. And now with all right, we say that the warehouses were empty because that's a fact. There weren't any things in the warehouses we needed. Then it was said why bad masks and if something we did not order were delivered, they did not refuse. This was also said, I don't know exactly, in the report or at a meeting that certain masks that Joc Pecečnik brought, in fact did not correspond to what was ordered, and so the trade reserves advertised it or wanted to reject it, but it was below, and Pečečnik would return them and demand others, but they agreed to buy them too, but of course at a real price, at a lower price, and it also happened because we needed them at the time. This depends on who orders that if something is wrong, it rejects it or in this case, because we also needed these masks to be bought at a lower price. Now I also hope that Comrade Marko, who is so warm, will be on the investigative committee to explore this together.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Bandelli has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u38	Yeah, just two things.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u39	Another microphone, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u40	Excuse me, Madam President. Thank you for your word. On one thing, I'm not going to get in that stock again, which is what it is, because it's going to be. [[Incomprehensible]] We didn't realize that the SNS had decided to cooperate. It's their business, it's their right to decide. But don't fool the public into saying that we will have a majority in the opposition. Yeah. I can't stand this because it's clear with the signing of the agreement that you've made, that you've got the majority vote in there and also in the commission of inquiry you'll have the majority - let's say this once clearly. Don't fool the public. That's all there is to it. And we know it is. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The proposer, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u42	Look, the coalition agreement clearly tells which parties are in the coalition. Those who want understand that, those who don't, just don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u43	We can proceed with the debate. The next one has the word mag. Bojana Muršič, prepare for Mr. Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. In the position of the Socialist Group of Members, something has been said, but it seems to me that this Parliament and our task of Members are becoming more investigative committees than to stick to what we have been elected to do. In fact, our task is the legislative branch of power, but not the investigation, but despite these investigative commissions, we have quite a few things, the Social Democrats are also, I will say we are actively cooperating except for one, and I believe that we will also be involved in this. But what are we most concerned about as Social Democrats? This investigative committee will be led by someone, I'll say, from a tropic of foxes who will investigate how many chickens have disappeared from the henhouse. This is really to be asked, because someone is investigating themselves, and I will also continue to say why I am saying this, and on the basis of what I am talking about, it is indeed an exhilarating concern. The ruling majority act as if they live in a parallel world. They don't want to face reality, and I think they haven't looked in the mirror in a long time and seen what's happening to our country and society at all. All these procedural complications, or tricks, that the coalition has afforded, are not remembered in the democratic world, for it is unheard of that the commission of inquiry is establishing a coalition. By the way, I must say, I hope that the Commission of Inquiry will realize substantive justice, which should be its purpose, which is also written down by the Legislative and Legal Service, but time will also show its own. This also shows the bitter taste of coalition hideouts in the public when we think of the many irregularities associated with the purchase of protective equipment. Otherwise, I can hope that the Commission of Inquiry will be able to establish political responsibility in its work, because everything we have heard in both the Public Finance Supervisory Commission and the individual working bodies is really a bit of a concern or a lot to say. I also hope that the results will be correct so that it will not be like some pamphlet that we received before time in the form of a government report on the purchase of protective equipment relating to the period prior to the outbreak. I also said several times that the current Minister of Economy was already a minister in the previous government. Already on the Health Committee itself, I have pointed out in January that I find it a little strange because, in fact, our ministers travel a lot or at least traveled around the world, and they knew what was going on, that as soon as this COVID virus was overtaken, it would come to us and then we should start setting off alarms. I think that then the Minister of Economy should warn the Prime Minister that the warehouses are empty, that it is necessary to think in this direction as soon as possible, because China has shown itself in all its light and I believe that if all the starting points were then, the warehouse would also start to be filled. So that part of the responsibility is definitely borne by the Minister of Economy in the previous Sharčev government, and I will say back, even in the previous government or in the previous mandate. We have also heard a lot about the various issues of what was true and what is not, it is said, that Members and members of the opposition speak only on the basis of what the media have revealed. That is why it is extremely, extremely difficult, and that is why I welcome the Commission of Inquiry here, because then we will get official documents from which we will be able to put more concrete emphasis on the whole matter and find out what was true and what was not at all. Now, for once, we have what the media have discovered, and I believe that the media have disclosed things on the basis of well-founded facts. I believe that there will also be a lot of talk on the investigative committee about whether Slovenia should have direct purchases or not. We all know that there have been speeches about one thing and the other, so it will also be interesting to hear what was going on here, why it was happening, even we have heard many times why Slovenia has not decided to buy directly as our neighbour Croatia, who has spent significantly less money on protective equipment, while by the number of inhabitants we are significantly smaller. Just as I said before, we will hear that there were empty warehouses, here of course the facts are clear, empty warehouses were, but we need to see why they were. I hope that the National Investigation Office will carry out its work properly in order to reach its findings, I also expect that the Court of Auditors will be able to gather information as soon as possible, otherwise we know that the Court of Auditors is still collecting information and collecting documentation, to come up with definitive results and that no sooner will happen to the President of the Court of Auditors. Even today, I cannot talk about whether the Commission of Inquiry will be successful or not, it will show time, and there is not enough time in this mandate, and before they start investigating or reviewing things, we will see where we are sooner. But I am sick of the fact that those responsible are mocking us with all the questions that have been raised on individual committees, where hundreds of millions of our money went. If they are responsible for overpayments of individual protective funds, they have to assume their responsibility, and to date this has not been the case. We have also heard that the members of the commission of inquiry are equal, equal, but as has been said, I have participated in two investigative commissions. I have to say, it really wasn't like that. Why am I saying that? Indeed, reaching the documents is exactly the same, but some can, I will say what is being examined in the protected area or in a safe area in a quiet room in this quiet room, so I will say, but some are able, or at least the President, to review this documentation in his office. That's the difference whether you're in a dark space or you're looking at it in your office, where you're dealing with papers and then you see it. Indeed, every commission of inquiry is extremely difficult. Even the hearings normally and always run, not usually, always run by the President, who has the main word, I will say, and then the members of the commission get the following word, absolutely not the same. The problem is mostly with the President and the President is conducting all the hearings, and he also has that key word. Why did I mention this phrase of mine at the outset, if it were to be investigated, someone from a fox troupe who would investigate how many chickens had disappeared from the hen house, and I point out that Gale in Tarcha had discovered what was going on and said the following: Vice President Jelka Godec, with Potocnikov [[?]] They're like lightning, like a hawk. They show up at the plant to set up a fan story. Gale also wrote, on Easter Thursday at a personal meeting with him in his office, that GenePlanet was still a story from SDS. So that's why I told this story at the beginning, why I don't think it's good that the president of the commission of inquiry is going to be someone from the coalition, much more hygienic and much better if someone from the opposition wanted to get to the bottom. I must say that in the opposition I am not crying or groaning, as mentioned several times today. If you allow me to conclude that the declared epidemic, which has made public procurement less flexible, has been milder regimes, does not dissuade anyone from the responsibility to obtain a prudent, transparent, legal, transparent and cost-effective watch over public funds, as these funds are our resources. And one thing is, life doesn't save the mask, life is saved by doctors in hospitals, and only we use masks to take preventive care of health, both of us and everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Gregorčič has the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Vice President. Because I'm a magician. Bojana Muršič did not fully understand, would like to explain explicitly or precisely the role and responsibilities of the economic minister in the previous government. In fact, the Ministry of Economy is not in charge of central procurement of protective medical equipment. It wasn't in the past government. Minister Restovalšek was neither the Deputy Prime Minister to suggest or advise the Prime Minister in any way whatsoever, because the Prime Minister is the one who has to take care of the coordination, lead the government, lead the ministries, give direction to his ministers, so that only this is said within the framework of the works and tasks of the Ministry of the Economy does not belong to the central procurement of protective medical equipment. [[…]] We all know, I hope we've remembered from all the previous board meetings on this subject, the acquisition of protective medical equipment, has been decentralised. This means that all health institutions have purchased this protective equipment for themselves, even under conditions of epidemics, but that such threats have not been detected by the Prime Minister of the Government. It would be his job to think strategically. It wasn't like that. MGRT was involved in the purchases, I will say, only indirectly, through the fact that the Department of Trade Reserves is its body in the composition. The body in the composition, which operates on the basis of a five-year plan and this five-year plan, also contained a small amount of mandatory medical equipment reserves, and this level was not adapted to any outbreak of the epidemic. And it wasn't responding properly. The Government did not adopt a decision in due time to join the central acquisitions. It's just a fact. And when these minimum supplies of this facility were released and distributed to hospitals, the health homes most needed of these equipment, the Government's decision was to replace all this equipment by 31. 12th year. Or you know what, this is, now the Minister for the Economy to blame for something like this, but it's a little bit, I mean, a lot of swindling. So, please, once again, the Ministry of the Economy became responsible for the central procurement of protective equipment only in the new Government, on 14. 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you, ma'am. Your replica time is up. You have Mrs Muršič procedurally, but let's be procedural, not a replica of the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u48	I think it's procedural. Actually, I didn't say a word to my colleague. If she found herself in this debate that I was exposing her. I didn't expose her, that's the first one. So I think she abused the replica. However, if she wanted to discuss procurement and everything, she could re-apply and express her opinion and defend his minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The replica is not only possible when a Member is nominated, but when the Member with the soy debate he had previously sees the content of someone else's debate. If you wanted Mrs. Gregorčič's procedural proposal on this subject, what have I already commented on? But let's make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u50	Yes, thank you very much. You said the same thing. My procedure was that Mrs Muršič could listen well to my first debate. Because in it, I was precisely referring to the width of the work and the duties of the Minister for the Economy, which you then denied once again. That's why I had to pick up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Now, not your procedural proposal, nor Mrs Muršič's procedural proposal spoke of the use of the Rules of Procedure. That is why both parties violated the Rules of Procedure in this part. It proposes, as Mrs Muršič suggested, that they both wait for the time-sharing and resolve all these differences in the debate. Now, if we can proceed with the debate. Mr. Franci Kepa has the next word. But get ready, Mr. Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present. It is right to establish an investigative commission to investigate all the details of the procurement of protective equipment, as well as the state of stocks prior to the outbreak announced by the new government on 13 March this year. The stock was catastrophic. At that time, Prime Minister Sarec responded too slowly to the purchase of protective equipment. Just before the resignation, the request was dropped. The fear of the virus was probably one of the main reasons for Charc's access, as well as the serial withdrawals of ministers from his party, both medical and financial. The decision of the new government was that equipment or protective equipment was obtained without intermediaries because there was no experience and staff feeding. Foreign countries also purchased equipment directly, and they also had major difficulties due to high demand and low supply. Only the respirators were paid forward by guarantees because all the countries were in bloody need and directly saved lives. From the beginning, the current opposition has shown that it is constantly being stolen, that it has not been properly obtained and so forth, rather than being grateful and glad that the current government has done hard work instead of them and has done an excellent job of preventing the spread of the epidemic. Thanks to the Janša government, there were minimally dead due to the virus. The work has been well done and we are also recognised by other countries, as we are one of the most successful countries in the prevention of the virus. Why the current opposition waited three weeks to take the initiative to set up an investigative commission on the purchase of protective equipment, they alone know. Were they afraid to do this because they had a bad conscience about it or something? That they'll come up with news of the purchase or the non-purchase? In silence, however, they likely hoped that no one else would take the initiative. Let it be determined whether there were irregularities in the acquisition of the person who had stolen something had a material advantage in doing so. Let us also identify Mr Gallet's role in all procurement, why he did not come forward until after he had signed many contracts. Did he get an order like that? Through the so-called "public television" there was a desire to show the truths and half-truths. What a nuisance there was on public television, public radio, and newspapers at the time of this government’s appearance. Let's explore the constant lies about multi-somillion purchases. This is also where Mrs Muršičev now mentioned several hundred million purchases. A little over 50 million had been signed so far, 250 million had been signed, and just over 50 million had been made. It's constantly deceiving how many hundred million and I don't know what it is that's costing money. It's been a waste of money to buy over 50 million so far. Also, a commission on direct procurement through a clinical centre should be set up. Maybe there's a lot more money to be washed out there every year when you buy through intermediaries when you're talking about why they're intermediaries. The clinical center has been brokers for over 10 years, they're brokers. There is probably more money laundering than was done here every year, as was the case with the purchase of all the protective material, but there is no commission of inquiry or initiative to do so. There was also no commission on the hole in the bank, a five billion-dollar hole, where there was no commission, there was no initiative for a billion-dollar money laundering, Iranian money. There was also no commission on certification holes. Mr. so-called very good economist Mencinger said that these were that it was worthless paper and people believed it. And what happened? A few 10 million people took advantage of this account, and the money was lost by ordinary people, workers who believed in it. What political power were these directors and the certificate tells us everything, there was little or nothing on the right-hand side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Starović has the following word and Mr Franz Rosec is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! What we are discussing today is, because of its shape, a conflict with some of the democratic gains that civilization has created over the centuries. And we fall back to the standard "kadia sukja, kadija sukja". It seems that you will succeed because the voting machine works inevitably, and you will investigate yourself. And what result we can expect, think — in the end, you will discover that there is nothing wrong with these acquisitions if you investigate yourself. There is also a replacement at the summit of the National Investigation Office. So this suggests a deliberate and clear work against some democratic standards. Look, if we're going a little bit substantive, how is it possible that there was no equipment at the time of the crisis? In fact, we heard today from coalition parties that there were some equipment, but it was used, and that it was by hospitals, and it was found that there were enough equipment in hospitals. That there was nothing so terrible that everything would be empty. And when these respirators were counted, it was discovered that there were actually enough of them not even used that much. Now let's just leave it. Why was it purchased then through the companies that offered – a thousand 500 of them, you think, the country couldn't get, suddenly there were a thousand 500 companies, without references, even those that had only a few thousand euros per year, and then they made millions of deals. That says something already, what we've been watching on TV is that it's an amateur approach. Where they lost the truck, they don't know, they have to ask the police, yeah, we were cheated and so on. But here's the thing, buying is a serious matter, and it's something that needs to be taken seriously. Okay, if it's been chosen, let's go to the market and make offers to the bidders, let's do it, it's been a hurry, let's just say that I still understand it in one piece. [[…]] But I don't understand how the bidders chose each other, and we're going over it like nothing ever happened. This is where we really pretend it's not true. The call of the official is in itself a conflict of interest. It doesn't matter the purpose, good or screwed up, whether it's about saving lives, by law, it's not allowed. It is simply a conflict of interest. It is known, however, that far from being the most corrupt in procurement, it is so throughout the world. And our Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption defines conflict of interest as a circumstance in which the private interest of an official influences or creates appearance, therefore, it is sufficient to create the appearance to influence impartial and objective performance of public tasks. The private interest of a public person means a property or intangible benefit for him, for his family members or for other natural or legal persons with whom he or she has had or has had personal business or political relations. So in order to identify this conflict of interest, which was obvious, visible to all, to all, to all the people, through television, because it was directly broadcast, so, to determine this contradiction, it is sufficient to have a look. At the same time, the exercise of certain functions or tasks affects the impartial and objective performance of that individual’s public duties. So, some of these obvious things are, but now you're going to succeed, you're going to vote this investigative committee, this majority, and we're going to come to the conclusion that those who are being investigated are going to investigate themselves. In the end, I'm afraid they're going to find out there's nothing wrong with this. I think it's unacceptable for some democratic community, for some parliament. It just doesn't work. We're lowering standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The next debater should be Franz Rosec, but he's not in the hall. The next one's on the table. [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Only for one performance by a colleague of Starović. Today, we know how many respirators there are and how many they needed. But let me remind you that 12. 3. 2020 LMŠ colleagues did not know that. By the time the government took over, no one had given her any information about it, but then they were able to count those respirators until the interpolation, even though their minister was then Mr Šabeder from their party. Let me remind you that Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar, when he was still a candidate for hiring, said that according to what we see in Italy, we would probably need more than 200 additional fans. But let me remind you that 25. 3. 2020, a good week after the new government, Dr Trumpuž said on national television that Slovenia will reach a critical limit in mid-April when there are not enough respirators in the country. Projections predict that in mid-April the respiratory system will need almost 400 patients, or it also predicts that soon we will reach the limits when there are not enough beds in the intensive wards or the respirators. And at the time, they were getting respirators when the data was like I mentioned it. In addition, you can’t have all the fans that are currently listed in this COVID quota in the country because some already use them for other respiratory diseases. So they weren't all available just for patients with COVID, and let me remind you that in Italy, people over 60 years of age didn't join fans because they didn't have enough. At a time like this, Slovenia bought fans, where the delivery hands were very long – most of them at the end of May – successfully since 3. 4. 2020 further, let me say that we were in mid-March, at least fourteen days later. Most of them said that as soon as possible. We've been shopping in these circumstances. And now to see how everything was wrong in a quiet time is very easy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The next debater should be a magician. Andrew Reich, who I don't even see in the hall. The next one gets the word, Mr Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you very much. What you have done now, fellow Jeraiah’s colleague, was extreme if I use your vocabulary, fluently? How many nurses were there on day 13. 3. 2020 Minister Gantar already knew, but if he didn't know, he could have found out in a few days. Because just a few days before the briefing for the Minister, a meeting of State secretaries was held, at which the Secretary of State of Cantaruts was also present, at which they discussed the state of the quantity of protective medical equipment in all public institutions in Slovenia. Let us also finally clear up what is now with this story about empty warehouses. I've tried this a number of times, and today I'm going to be on another very plastic case, and I hope you'll only understand this time. Let's say hypothetically. The government decides to produce pasta. Set up a potato warehouse for the central warehouse. Then step into this warehouse and wonder how there is no wheat in this warehouse. The institutes had sufficient equipment for the initial management of the COVID crisis. And that was also clearly announced in advance. In the meantime, the Department of Commerce had some protective equipment at its disposal because of one other event. And this is the occurrence of swine fever and avian influenza. It was an accident. And then you're wondering here today, I think it's also balinically and perfidically, why Gale stopped by, and who recorded the conversation with Minister Restoring. Well, that's not important. That's for others to do. It's important to me what they said. This is the essential thing, and the pride of this saying has begun to happen. And I'm right, because you can predict all of these situations and the evidence is already on the move, because it's been happening for quite some time now that we've used the situation immorally in the homes of older citizens. Immoral. 80% of the dead were in the homes of older citizens. If this isn't the first sign of alarm that something was wrong, then I don't know what it is. And what we're willing to do for power. I mean, are you serious? I'll answer with a question. What are you willing to do to preserve this authority? All of you are willing to swallow, overlook or confirm just because you stay and continue what you are doing right now. Truths and half-truths. If we're just looking at protective equipment. Here are the truths, yours. On April 24th and 25th, the last date in the government report on the condition, stocks, reasons and orders of personal protective equipment, we received this on May 5. If we leave at the side of the price for which Minister Restoration himself confirmed that there were wrong price comparisons, we have proved at least two that there were lies in here, that people and parliament and the whole system were knowingly misleading in order to justify these extremely urgent purchases, which were not actually urgent. It only turned out in a few days. On 13 March more than 450 tutors were available in Slovenia and this government insisted on the wrong number for two and a half months. Nothing, they said, they're gone. She insisted on misinformation for two and a half months. For two months she insisted that they had no legal basis for direct purchases of protective equipment to lie, we proved that if they were stealing, others are now proving it. Yes, the truth will come to the plan and the day. But I doubt that in this investigative committee of yours, because what I'm listening to, one couple of yours has said, the truth will come on the day, you already know what is written in the final report of this investigative commission. All the findings are clear to you, you will only add names and sign under another document that you produced in your own I don't know any extremely perverse logic, because we must not warn in Parliament about irregularities or anything. But if we point out the irregularities, but it's our responsibility, you've screwed up the entire health system, you've compromised human health. Today, the epidemiological situation in Slovenia is much worse than it was on 13 March, when the epidemic was declared and not Mr Kepa, the epidemic was not announced by this government, but proclaimed by the previous government. And also the previous Government has carried out a huge number of measures that have proven to have an impact on the fact that the epidemic could be minimized and far from Slovenia being somewhere at the peak of epidemiological images. No, no, no. Today we have a worse picture than we had on March 13th. And what's going on? There's almost no action. We have to wear these masks, and we're all wondering whether they're even needed or not, but if someone says, from the profession that they're harming, we're gonna use them further. But in fact, today in Slovenia there is a Swedish model that you have been spitting out on 13 March or those days after 13 March that this is a completely irresponsible matter. But today you are encouraging and maintaining the Swedish model of controlling the crown of crisis. So it's never black and white, it's always gray somewhere, but it's getting completely blurry now. Today, too, if you were so afraid of what will happen in the area of purchasing protective equipment you would keep your central supply, but you did not, again the matter is what it was before March 18th, when you actually crossed all of these fixed purchase routes that worked. No, today or the end of the 1 June epidemic is all the same as before. And it's said that we have a satisfactory supply of protective equipment today, apparently because I didn't get official information from you. I hear, however, that FFP2 masks and FFP3 masks are missing, i.e. those protective masks that actually work, even according to expert estimates, because only these two types of masks need certificates, we can buy the rest without certificates. He says there's enough, I don't know, I'm not sure. Because everything I get from you, if it's like this, how do we believe it, if you admit it's full of lies and mistakes. And then this investigation of ourselves, and this is one extreme political paradox, we swapped with an investigative commission, no, we wanted to put together good documentation, but not so quickly and then four times correct before some writing and two hours before the opposition to invest or before competitors to apply for an investigative commission. Actually, we don't need this commission of inquiry anymore. We are the political responsibility of this government, and given that you have rejected the interpretation, you have proved not only to the government, but also to the coalition, despite all the evidence of lying and deceiving you have pressed against it, and by pressing against it, you have also become responsible for all of this whether you want it or not. And when we talk about political responsibility, you will be called to political responsibility because I don't know what you've done before March 13th. This is the immorality of scaring people, cramping the fight for power at all costs and allowing obvious, obvious opportunities to make excellent business for companies close to you. If we went directly, we would only try a little bit, but for 20 million euros we would get more than enough equipment and caregivers for the first wave of control, in that first month of the crown crisis, but not for the first time – you kept saying that we have nothing, we have nothing because you screwed up and we can't buy directly. Of course, then there was a rush, then the goal excuses the funds, and then the minister can say on TV, we bought everything at all costs. And here is not the question of the general and the battle, but the question is moral and how can you, not us, convey a lot of how you will look people in the eye and tell people [[End of discussion warning sign]] We have spent EUR 108 million on protective and medical equipment. How much of this is justified in fact, and I really don't know if we'll ever be able to find out. We'll never be able to find out. And I have to say, it's great that it happened to Gale, because this thing has been cut down and started to work much more rationally, but still not until the end. An annex was signed by the end of May for the removal of masks that had been incorrectly certified at the end of May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The text was wanted by the proponent? Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you. There's only one thing I'm going to read from the report. Day 14. 4. 2020 is the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Trade Reserves with Sla Marketing d.o.o. The contract was signed by Ivan Gale for the supply of two million three layered surgical masks worth €1.8 million without VAT at a price of €0.90 per piece. The Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Trade Reserves has signed a contract, although Zdravko is Minister for Economic and Technological Development. 4. 2020 said in regular coordination that things in Slovenia are slowly calming down and that it is necessary to take a more rational approach to the signing of contracts. It was also unusual that the supplier had already supplied 1,4 million protective masks on the date of signature of the contract. Apparently something was in a hurry, and Mr. Gale found out. So, as I said at the beginning of the first ad, is Mr. Gale really going to prove to be a hero with an investigation?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Also the last debates tabled by Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, we are moving to the concluding part of the debate in which she gets the word of a re-proposer. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj gives up the word. All the advertised debaters that you wanted to get your word on. However, since the time has been set for the debate and I see that interest is still after the debate, then, on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to release the application, and I would also like to point out that if Mrs Alenka Jeraj's representative wants to discuss it, please also apply with the pressure of the microphone switch. Please sign in. We have seven reported debaters, each with five minutes, as the first to receive Mr Jože Lenart's word, Mr Miha Kordiš is being prepared. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, of course, we all wonder how the coalition should investigate itself, given that there have been a lot of deceptions at that time, a lot of data, which are also very important in the actions of the previous government, which this quotation does not recognise at all. Let me start at 25. 2. 2020, this is the date on which the Ministry of Health convened a meeting with all directors of health institutions, and this meeting was very important, because at the time they discussed the equipment available in health institutions, the equipment that had already been procured by health establishments, because at the time the purchase was carried out through these health institutions. They discussed which equipment was still needed, and these orders were certainly there, and it was agreed at that meeting that hospitals or public institutions should then be required by the end of the month or by 28. 2. Then give more precise information by email, that this coordination is then very accurate and that it is known what is being done and done. I can tell you firsthand that these things were done. And then all of this data was at the Ministry of Health, and that's why I insisted at the 7th May meeting on the economy that we should call a former secretary of state who could immediately send this list, and it would be clear how much equipment there were fans, how much already ordered and these data still exist, I can tell you firsthand that these data are still. And then I don't understand some seriousness of the current government that she couldn't even do that to connect that data and come out of it. This is very, very obvious that it was intentional misappropriation or adjustment of data. Otherwise, this has been proven, as my colleague has already stated clearly today, that this has been proven. The rest, if there was anything else, will then be discussed or proved by other authorities. The second date that seems very important to me is March 6th. On 6 March, however, it is one of the most important dates for the epidemic. Why? Because this is the date on which the government of Marjana Sarca or the Ministry of Labour and also the Ministry of Health gave measures to all homes for older persons to close their homes for visits, which was also done. And it is very clear from all this information, because these instructions to be careful were already in place at the end of February. And this instruction that was given is, for example, the home of the elderly in Isolah by 27. 2. Closed homes for visits. And on March 6th, March 7th, all public health establishments were then closed for visits to implement these measures. And all the leaders of home for the elderly recognise that this was one of the first measures that was very well implemented and that these measures were implemented among the first in Europe. And so I say, if this government and these basic measures, which the journalists and the media have also summarized and then informed, this is all proven or evident, and this government does not mention such important dates at all and just say that the previous government has not taken any action. Well, that's sad. This is what I say when I come out, I'm just kind of a normal person, I come out of the economy, and we've always been used there to respect certain measures or tasks that have yet to be carried out. And then overlooking such essential things seems very unrealistic to me. And that's why I'm really wondering if we can trust this government to investigate itself. Or maybe it's all funny. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš, Mr Predrag Baković, has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The sole purpose of the commission of inquiry set up today by the SDS with its SMC, DeSUS and New Slovenia subjects is to ensure that nothing is investigated to prevent all the details of corruption and the millions of commissions received by the electorate of the ruling caste. We know that. It's not even hidden. The loss of tens of millions by purchasing protective equipment through intermediaries was not an unfortunate bad decision or a consequence of the difficult situation that the government's Apologists are trying to convince us of, was a conscious decision made by the government of Janez Janša. To reach out to commissions for her friends, she refused procurement with an interstate agreement with China despite all calls from the opposition, including us from the Left who sought such direct purchases. Consequence? A few 10 million euros have disappeared from the budget. I'd very much like to give you the exact number of these millions, but we don't really have this number. It could be expected in a report on these acquisitions prepared by the government, but of course the government lied a little bit in that report and threw the truth under the rug. Apparently, every time John Janša is in power, commissions for the chosen fly to heaven. We had a arms store in the '90s, then an affair with Patria, well, now masks and fans. In doing so, the plundering of the country is even a minor problem compared to the fact that the deliberate rejection of direct purchases in favour of commissions has exposed the population to unnecessary additional risks of COVID-19. We could hear a lot from professional circles about what was happening in health institutions, especially in care institutions, in nursing homes, because masks were late. Some were useless and the certificates were falsified and so on. Caregivers in nursing homes have found themselves at the heart of the epidemic because of government negligence and neglect of the profession led by the Community of Social Welfare Institutions, the most exposed groups of the population. Nurses and other caregivers were in these hot spots of the epidemic. And the workers in the store were exposed, the proletarians in the factories, after all, the staff in the UKC and other health institutions and others. In short, all these people have been abandoned by the government — why? - because her friends on her network had to collect commissions. Organised crime! And all this bunch of hardworking people who went to work in the epidemic and kept society up, so that we came through, didn't run out of protection because of the market situation, as the government was trying to paint, but because this government decided not to buy the equipment itself. From the beginning, though, we called for a different course of action, for direct purchases, for all the bob against the wall — why? -, yes, in direct interstate procurement and agreements, it is not possible to steal as well as through indirect purchases and invoiced commissions. But if commissions require health risks and deaths among the population, it is for John Janša, apparently also for his coalition and government, but an acceptable victim of war profit. And it all came together on the day thanks to whistleblowers and research journalists, did the government act? It's not. Has the government changed its mind? It's not. She was sweeping under the carpet, trying to defend and hide her commissions and overpayments with lies. Even so far as they first claimed that direct purchases were not possible because they were prohibited by law. Liar! This article is not in law, as confirmed by the Court of Auditors. [[End of discussion warning sign]] They then began to say that production companies require a hundred percent advance and that they are therefore not able to buy directly, but, look at it, the fraction, also the intermediary companies received advances, and these advances not only covered the costs of material and acquisition, but also commissions. Otherwise, in the face of everyone, the minister of rest also kept lying at this point. And on the list ahead. Even at the end of May, [[End of discussion warning sign]] When everything was already open and in public, Hmezad TMT, buying a few million masks with administratively priced prices, just to get the money to their friends [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Predrag Baković, to prepare the mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u66	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With regard to these purchases of protective equipment and, last but not least, the subject matter of an investigation, which is mentioned in the request for a parliamentary inquiry, has already been said much at the time of the intervention of Minister Restovalska, so I do not intend to repeat myself here. However, in my brief discussion, I would like to point out some things that seem problematic to me, and I think it is also appropriate to expose them. Therefore, a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec submitted a request for the introduction of a parliamentary inquiry. This request was submitted by the coalition in order to determine the possible political responsibility of those who were or were responsible for the procurement, study, advice and implementation of measures and procurement. The request focused on five segments or points, four of which are intended to investigate the activities of the responsible during the Government of Marjan Šarc and only the last or part of the second point are intended to investigate those responsible in the current Government. So, the investigation mainly focuses on the government of Marjan Šarc, although most suspicions of irregularities or suspicions of criminal services, the affair falls directly into the acquisition of protective equipment that took place in the government of Janez Janša, that is, after the epidemic was declared. While the Coalition has sworn to the correctness and objectivity of this investigation, which we have today on the agenda, at the same time, in recent house investigations into the acquisition of protective equipment, many of the coalition have rushed to claim that the investigation of the NPU, i.e. those authorities that are the only ones to be called and responsible, is politically motivated and biased. Despite the fact that the two departments responsible for this investigation, namely the Ministry of Internal and Justice, are headed by the Ministers of the Coalition. Moreover, there has been a resignation of the Director-General of the Police, a resignation of the Interior Minister, who has made it clear that he believes that this is going to be the case, I will quote from the media, the Udbov Party Structure of the decisive police department in relation to the prosecution and the judiciary of the same province, which is so strongly anchored in the system, and therefore the existing legislation and powers that the Minister has in relation to the police do not allow him to effectively depoliticise and change the police. According to the National Investigation Office, the minister referred to the investigation as politically motivated, according to him, the police are in the service of a deep state. So the Minister, who does not yet know whether he has resigned or not, has characterised and tried to evaluate the work of law enforcement authorities, as they do not operate according to the expectations of the current authorities. All of this, in fact, gives a real picture of the current situation and the situation in our country. Therefore, if I take it all together, the coalition has made a request for a parliamentary inquiry, it will identify the political responsibility of those primarily responsible from the previous Government, and only in part, or to a lesser extent, of the responsibility of the current Government, and in this part will investigate themselves, and they have done so despite the announcement that the opposition will apply for a parliamentary investigation, which would in fact be the only political hygiene. And that doesn't seem disputed to you, your well-respected colleagues in the coalition. You swear that the parliamentary investigation will be objective, consistent and professional, while criticising the work of the investigating bodies of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, who are the only competent and not least qualified to investigate such acts. Understand the crust of the sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word "magic." Andrej Reich, prepare yourself, Mr. Janez Moškrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you very much for taking the floor. I'm just gonna tie myself to my predecessor and paraphrase him a little bit. I really don't understand and I can't understand. First of all, I cannot understand why our proposal to set up a special COVID budget sub-fund was not adopted in the National Assembly. I do not understand why Members did not agree to the establishment of a special parliamentary supervisory commission in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission. Today, we are all actually discussing the consequences that these two things could have, so by setting up a special budget fund and a special parliamentary parliamentary commission. And when we talk about political responsibility, I think that political responsibility is in all the members of the National Assembly who either did not support these proposals, so that they abstained or opposed them. We are talking about large amounts, we are talking about irregularities, the subject is now limited only to protective and protective equipment, dealing with COVID-19. Of course, when disaster strikes in society when emergency situations arise, it also means that the devil is called. The devil, blackmailers, someone who sees his opportunity in such situations, and here too, it has been seen that more than a thousand people, even 2,000 people, businesses and individuals in this call have seen their business opportunity, even though they have never dealt with them. And when we talk about these things, when we talk about these things, we have to look at them in a holistic way. I would like this commission of inquiry to be objective, but I have doubts, of course, because it is very unusual that the Government is investigating itself or does not want to investigate itself, although most of the transactions were carried out and accepted during the new government. Still, I'd like to look forward to it. I would like it to be when we talk about political responsibility, that we will also discuss what measures we must take so that such things will no longer happen. Otherwise, I think the whole debate on the Commission is irrelevant. If we do not take measures in Parliament and the country to obtain the necessary equipment in case of emergencies without intermediaries, we will have institutions that will be able to supply themselves with things that will not work just to find intermediaries who will do it instead. But such a thing, which we have witnessed here in the field of goods, is present in all parts of our economy, unfortunately. And it is right to look here, I will say responsible, not guilty, but responsible, and to take the necessary measures in Parliament so that something like this will never happen again. I'll tell the investigative boards I'm never thrilled. We know that they are related to them, the related operating costs, the effects proven by the current experience are not somehow tangible. That is why I am even more sorry that our proposal has not been adopted following the establishment of a specific budget fund, a sub-item to deal with the COVID epidemic and a special parliamentary independent control in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Janez Moškrič, Mr Robert Pavšič is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. All in attendance, Your Honor. Today we have on the agenda a real act on the determination of the parliamentary investigation, i.e. Investigative committees. The legal basis for such commissions is already in the constitution of our country. Article 93 states: "The National Assembly may order an inquiry into a matter of public interest, but it must do so at the request of a third of the members of the National Assembly or the request of the State Council. To that end, he shall appoint a Commission which shall have the same powers as the judicial authorities in matters of inquiry and examination.” That's a big deal. For this we also have adopted the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. And one and two, I think they're the most important, don't you? Article 1 says "Parliamentary investigation into the matter of public interest shall be carried out in order to identify and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for the decision of the National Assembly on political responsibility in public function holders". We have heard this many times today, and it has been forgotten to say the next part, which can be mentioned now by colleague Reich – “to amend legislation in certain areas and other decisions of the National Assembly under its constitutional jurisdiction”. The right purpose of the Commission of Inquiry is to improve matters in a particular area. And that is also why it must have been on the basis of Article 1 for all those who signed the request for a parliamentary commission of inquiry. And not on the basis of the announcements of the political in front of the cameras that everything is wrong with solving the problem of the epidemic and that all purchases were corrupt purposes and only because of corruption. Because it is unacceptable that someone can accuse and persistently claim that it was corruption and that it was corruption and that you already know the results of the parliamentary investigation that nothing will be done and so on. This is just like inviting people to protest and saying that the epidemiological situation in the country is now nothing special. It's not true either. Only a maximum of 10 people are allowed to gather in public places. If it isn't one big measure that people have to stick to and limit. Look, people can't get married, people can't even hang out. But our political opposition, with its smokyness, I stress once again, the smokyness, it gathers crowds and gives them a better hope that with this COVID-19 there is nothing wrong with it, that it was invented by I don't know who, maybe the party of the SDS that I am a member of. This is what I think is clear to every citizen, once again to every citizen and especially to health workers, that this government, the 14th government, took care of its citizens and healthcare workers, who were in charge and responsible, together with policy, to fight this. How many masks were there, how many were there, you'll figure that out, not here today. But the purpose of this parliamentary commission of inquiry is to improve the situation. And who can lead it? See, what if the State Council demanded that an investigation committee be appointed for the situation is said to be in the homes of the elderly, because we do not have enough homes for the elderly in Slovenia, for example, over the last 20 years? But we will. [[End of discussion warning sign]] outside looking for members of the parliamentary commission? We can't. So we are again, you will again or we will look inside people who have already been or at least part have been responsible for creating policies in the field of social protection. Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry shall be Parliamentary and shall be composed of Members and shall use the articles referred to in [[End of discussion warning sign]] the laws that the Witnesses can also call and this is well defined in the law below. However, the Witnesses must witness as they did in court with an oath to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr. Robert Pavšić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u72	Completely in the way of manners, because there is nothing else to expect. Hustling crowds. We're just a bunch of people? Let's just think a little bit about what you're doing on your own. In recent days you have sent your entire Slovenia your mail with a perfidious political poll with awards, sending various Tweets with which I do not know, what little reconciliation was done, demolition, not only in Slovenia, but in the wider regional space. Come on, please. If you are reading something, at least be consistent and read in your manner, first look at yourself. Are we intruding? Definitely not. But far from being you. And that's unhygienic and immoral. I've heard before that we don't like to repeat ourselves. We really don't want to repeat ourselves, but it looks like we have to repeat ourselves and it will be another 100 times or 1000 times or a million times: Zdravko Restoršek, a member of the government of Janez Janša called the Department of Commerce Reserves, they recorded it and said, "You pay now, Bitenc must get this deal." If it's not a clear political responsibility, I don't know what it is. The Minister can't do that. And if, I say, in the parliamentary jargon, the Prime Minister closes, gives him protection, he takes that responsibility too. But this spin was interesting, Mrs. Jeraj. Gale and SLA [[?]] Marketing – but now the commission of inquiry will investigate the political responsibility of Ivan Galet. Ivan Gale is not an official in this country. Ivan Gale is an official who has apparently resisted, and this has caused you to feel salt in your wound and burns you crazy, because things have finally begun to clear up a little, when they are still acute, when the tracks are still intact, but not after 10 years when it's all over. You said what your intention was to find the political responsibility of Ivan Gallet. All right, well, we do live where we live. The amendment of the legislation was said by colleague Moskriè. Yeah, great. I'm really afraid of what these legislative changes are going to be like, because I see where a taco dog prays in media law. So it's still a very, very interesting autumn, and it's a hot summer. The basis for today's debate was this, under which the government has been signed and under which you have signed all the coalition Members who voted in favour of this report. That's the basics. We've proven to you that it's full of mistakes and lies. You never denied it. But also, I don't know, if I were to confirm some matter that they prove to me that it's incorrect, or if I were to cancel my confirmation, or if I were to demand that the report be rectified, you wouldn't be able to do that either, well. Let us leave aside all these political responsibilities now, only the facts you have given away, and that is true, this is not a government report, this is a political pamphlet. But if he went through the procedure as a legal act in this House and you confirmed it, then our parliamentary situation is indeed at a very low point. But I'm going to be surprised because I believe in something – that although I'm sure we can't go deeper than that, you'll find one way and a moment, but how can you get even deeper into the mud and even more entangle us, and even more of the perfidious stories you've just admitted? To seek the political responsibility of Ivan Gallet? I mean, disaster, no. This is a disaster. Why did he sign contracts with SL marketing and Hmesad TMT and Geneplanet and I don't know? They were signed by the employees themselves at the department store - because you pushed them into this system. And once they realized that things don't actually count here on the basis of previous experiences, they resisted. And now that they've resisted, you'll be looking for political responsibility. Start at the top. Whose was the previous first man in the department of supply? So start at the top and get down.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u73	We will.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u74	I do not believe and I will not believe that you will investigate everything because, given what we have heard earlier from my colleague, the request for interpretation has been made or the request for the commission of inquiry has been made at the same time as this report. You knew exactly what you knew before, and you took all your coalition partners across the water to support it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much. As a last resort, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u76	So we will not determine Mr Gallet's political responsibility. But he's a signatory to 58 million cases. And if we find out that he's violated anything in his work, we'll file a complaint as an investigative commission to the National Investigation Office. We can incriminate a criminal offence, so anyone in this country can charge anyone if he estimates he's breaking the law. And I didn't say we'd be looking for political responsibilities, because of course you're looking for political responsibility with politicians and officials, but we're going to review all these transactions. Now what was said was that we pushed them into it. See, we have adopted a decision on the conduct of the epidemic, i.e. the state plan, the pardon which predicted that a central purchase would take place and that it would be carried out by the Department of Stocks of the Republic of Slovenia. That's not what we invented. That's what the SMC government wrote four years ago. Two years ago, he was tested and it was already discovered that the supply reserves, the institution, would probably be a weak article or a narrow throat, but after that attempt in 2018 the matter would be thrown into the drawer and not corrected. And when Janez Janša’s government came forward, she took the plan in hand, followed this plan, and set up a supply facility as a central supplier, that is, one that will centrally care for the purchase of equipment. And things were running, we're going to say big problems, and then the government decided to set up a special group that came to help supply reserves that couldn't do that. I've only read one of Mr Gallet's cases, and I don't know why you're all defending him like that, and I said, we're just going to investigate and see if Mr Gale really is a hero or a war profiter, which you've talked about a lot. I'm not accusing anyone, so the investigative commission is going to clear these things up and figure it out. We will find political responsibility, but we will find another, but we are not a court of law, so, investigative commission, Members are not a court of law, we are not one to judge anyone, but if we find out that it was a violation of the law, but we can or cannot, we have to question the crime or whatever we find. Dates we don't take into account and a whole bunch of other things. Look, there's a lot of material coming together at this time. We have magnetogram meetings, we have interpolation, we have a response to interpolation, we have a whole bunch of other documents, contracts are all publicized, the material is enough or, let's say, it's all gathered, and things will be able to figure out how they were going, why they were going to happen, whether there were any irregularities and so on. As it is said, the Commission of Inquiry is to identify political responsibility. However, as President of another commission of inquiry, in fact two, I also met in my work with documents which also proved the crimes of individuals, and in those cases I made a statement of suspicion of a crime. And that's exactly what this investigation committee will do if she finds out. Otherwise, the whole thing doesn't make sense if there's an investigation, a hearing of witnesses, and so on, if the case isn't closed and there's no epilogue. However, given that investigations are already under way at the National Bureau of Investigation to investigate the Court of Auditors, they may sooner come up with any findings and prove or reject things that are being thrown into the public and are being accused on average. I don't want that, but the investigative commission to investigate, draw conclusions. In the event of a finding of political responsibility, it calls upon those policies to resign, in the event that it finds or suspects that it is a criminal offence, and that is that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 4(2) of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly does not vote on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry, so I note that the Parliamentary Assembly has ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of public officials on the condition, conduct, stocks, orders, purchases, storage and other means of obtaining or possessing personal protection and critical medical equipment for the effective prevention of infection with communicable diseases, and the functioning of institutions and public function holders with regard to the timely control of the covid-19 epidemic and appropriate measures, in view of the suspicion of unlawful use of public funds and the suspicion of abandoning appropriate measures in relation to the timely suppression of the covid-19 epidemic for the period of 1. 2. 2020 until the determination of the parliamentary investigation in question, and beyond, for any amendment to the applicable legislation governing public procurement, trade reserves, integrity and the prevention of corruption and the conduct of public authorities with public funds. The contents of the parliamentary inquiry request are defined in the record of the request of 11 June 2020 and in the Act setting up the parliamentary investigation of 1 July 2020 which you received. The parliamentary investigation is therefore determined. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it as soon as possible to the Council. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're going to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRSTLY PROPOSAL OF AN AMENDMENT LAW ON INTERNAL MEASURES FOR OMILITIES AND THE REFERENCE OF THE Epidemia COVID-19. The draft law was tabled by a group of 14 Members and Members with the first signed by Branet Golubović. With regard to this bill, a group of 14 Members and Members with their first signed Branet Golubović requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Igor Peck. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Following the outbreak of the communicable disease, COVID-19 of 12 March 2020, the Government adopted several legal acts which constituted a restriction on public life and public gathering of people in the territory of the State, thus resulting in and resulting from consequences in several areas, including the economy. The Government has broken down its measures in several legal provisions, and, notwithstanding well-intentioned warnings, has not covered all categories of residents and economic operators in a proportionate manner. In the LMŠ Group with the proposed amendment, where we provide monthly income for individuals and individuals with permanent residence in Slovenia, we want to help all those affected by the imposition of the measures in particular on the day of the outbreak. With the introduction of universal income, we are following three basic objectives. We want to improve the economic situation in the area of domestic consumption, slow down the decline in gross domestic product and strengthen the principle of solidarity and ensure an equal starting point of opportunity. We are confident that we will also accelerate recovery by raising consumption and demand. The health crisis, with almost two months of closure of a large part of the economy, has had a negative impact on consumer medium-term sentiments, increasing uncertainty about the duration of the crisis and the stability of employment, leaving consumers everywhere in the Member States of the European Union to buy sustainable consumer goods for a later period. Universal income acts as a safeguard that reduces uncertainty about the future and strengthens confidence among consumers. The introduction of temporary universal income is a measure which, while increasing purchasing power for all citizens, primarily enhances a sense of security. Three elements are important for the effectiveness of promoting domestic demand through the introduction of temporary universal income. It will be shared by all residents who meet the conditions of permanent residence on the day of the introduction of the pandemic in the Republic of Slovenia. It has a limited duration and will need to be used over a certain period. It will only be used for purchases of goods and services in the Republic of Slovenia, without the use of universal income being limited to the purchase of certain types of products or services. Temporary universal income is a measure to promote domestic demand that is more effective than all other alternative measures in specific situations of depressive aggregate demand. According to the analyses we have carried out, it is estimated that spending of temporary universal income will also encourage additional consumption of at least 30%. Increasing domestic consumption will contribute to an increase in fiscal inflows to the state budget under value added tax and excise duty. By encouraging private consumption, jobs will be maintained, revenues will be spent further, existing jobs will be maintained and new jobs will be created. The importance of such a measure is meaningful, since, contrary to market mechanisms that retroactively combine the economy, it is only “ex-ate” that combines the components of the economy into an effective whole. As a result of all of this, in the LMŠ Group of Members, we have drawn up a proposal to encourage consumption, not least with the help of our citizens and citizens, and consequently to encourage our economy, which has suffered from the consequences of the crown crisis. We believe that this is a step in the right direction, and we hope that you will also support us in this respect, our respectable colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the representative of the government, Mrs Mateja Ribič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for an introductory presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u80	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The Group of Members and Members submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Intervention Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic. The proposed bill to remedy the consequences of the epidemic and improve the economic situation in the field of domestic consumption proposes the introduction of a monthly universal income of EUR 100 per month, over a period of three consecutive months, for persons residing in the Republic of Slovenia on 13 March 2020. Pursuant to the proposal, funds for universal income are provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill states as a reason for the proposal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not covered all categories of residents and economic operators with its measures so far, by introducing a universal income to improve the economic situation in the field of domestic consumption, it seeks to improve or slow down the decline in gross social product on the one hand and to strengthen the principle of solidarity, to strengthen equal starting points, to prevent poverty, to enable greater freedom and to reduce social exclusion on the other hand. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that, on the basis of the proposal, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia would direct universal income to beneficiaries and maintain and manage records of payments of this income. With regard to the proposal, the Government points out that the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is a tax authority and its primary task is to collect compulsory duties. It is important to point out that the Financial Administration has already undertaken a number of additional tasks that are not essential to the COPID-19 epidemic. These include tasks related to measures that will or will mitigate the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic. In the event of the imposition of new powers on the Financial Administration, which are not related to the collection of compulsory duties, the effectiveness of the performance of its basic tasks will be jeopardised. Taxes, social security contributions and other compulsory benefits are a major part of the public financial resources by which the state realizes public interests and meets public needs, which means that public interests and public needs cannot be effectively met without effective collection of compulsory duties. In terms of the financial implications of the proposal, the government points out that the impact on the revenue of the state budget would be around half less than the estimates made by the applicant. The net fiscal effect, as calculated by the proposing proposal, would not have been achieved. It is expected that those in the lower income class would spend all additional income on consumption or purchase of goods with a lower tax rate, while the population in the higher income classes would devote additional income to the consumption of goods and services at a general level. The measures taken so far focused, inter alia, on improving the social situation of the most vulnerable groups of the population, solidarity assistance and allowances were paid to self-employed, farmers, social workers and religious workers, pensioners, children or beneficiaries of the child allowance, large families, recipients of the financial assistance or recipients of the protective allowance, students, beneficiaries of the child allowance, beneficiaries of the maternity or parental allowance, beneficiaries of the parental allowance, fosterers of the child aged 18 and beneficiaries of the partial payment of the lost income. All of those groups were identified by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as vulnerable groups in need of assistance due to low incomes. The measures taken were aimed at improving the social security of vulnerable groups with low incomes, preventing their social situation from deteriorating. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will also take measures in the future that will focus mainly on vulnerable groups. To this end, it will regularly monitor their social situation and propose legislative changes accordingly. The proposal by the proposer is not specifically targeted at vulnerable low-income groups, and as such are most entitled to receive cash aid; [[End of discussion warning sign]] However, in line with the proposal for a monthly universal income of EUR 100 per month, all persons residing in the Republic of Slovenia would be entitled to a monthly allowance of EUR 100 per month on 13 March 2020. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that the impact on the revenue of the state budget would be around half less than the estimates made by the applicant, and therefore the Government of the Republic of Slovenia disagrees with the proposal by the proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Dušan Šiško has been given the floor to postpone the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. All of us met for the first time in March with an invisible enemy who had already drilled ghosts where it broke out and in neighboring Italy. Many legal acts, legal measures, all for the well-being and health of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia were adopted. A number of areas seemed to be deformed or not at all. People were afraid for themselves and their loved ones. All these anti-Korona laws have helped a large majority of the categories of people and economic operators. On Thursday, we passed the fourth anti-Korona Act. Some employees have received small supplements, which is very sad. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that those who receive financial social assistance and are always at home were not necessarily in need of a solidarity allowance. Some of them were, for example, a part-timer and, for example, a worker with a minimum wage, who received a compensation of 80% of his salary because his employer ordered him to wait at home for business reasons. Proposer of the novel of the Law, or List of Marjan Šarc, would now generously share candy with everyone, whether poor or rich, who would thus be even richer or not. This is a very populist issue, which is why there is a violent general debate, as has been much talk and written about vouchers or vouchers and mobile applications. We know what happened to the shepherds, the prices of the accommodations have risen. If we are already doing something, let us work for our country to recover financially as soon as possible and not yet additionally in debt, which is clearly in the interest of some. 2. Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides nicely for Slovenia to be a legal and social state, and the question is whether it is also in practice because the paper transfers everything. The purpose of these 100 euros at a monthly level, which is really big for someone, for another, no, is to spend it in different shops, restaurants, service activities and so on. Money must not be saved, which is what we Slovenians are used to, that we have something “spoiled” for bad times. In addition, we are “Ziherashi” and translate large purchases, investments for later, more pink times. Debt of the country must not go on indefinitely and any debt must be within some reasonable limits, for in the end everything will have to be repaid. The economy will slowly rise to its feet so that there will be no collapse. You say that additional spending would encourage additional spending by 30%, as a new one-month income would encourage an increase in total consumption by €260 million. The one who doesn't can't spend, and it's clear as day. Even if the funds to pay these three monthly universal revenues are provided in the 2020 budget, we do not need to use them on the nose. Four large-scale anti-Korona laws with financial incentives are living proof that we are accelerating economic recovery and consequently rising from recession. We will not support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group because we do not want our country to become even more indebted than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Member. The next is the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, on its behalf, Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. A nice welcome to the guests of the Ministry and a nice good day, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members. The LMSH Group is 22. 6. 2020 has already tabled in the legislative procedure the proposed Act on Supplements to the Law on Intervention Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic, which aims to improve domestic consumption, thus also following the objective of helping the economy and bridging the rise in unemployment. According to the LMŠ Group, the law is an appropriate response to the fall in gross domestic product and to the deficit in the state treasury as a result of the coronary crisis, which, with some urgent measures and restrictions, has also stopped the cash flow well. The bill proposes a universal income of EUR 100 per month for every citizen who has permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on the day of the declaration of the COVID-19 epidemic. The applicant considers that the contribution of funds to the so-called universal income, which, of course, is also a financial consequence and expenditure from the State budget, would be reimbursed in almost two-thirds of the net fiscal impact. Therefore, a well-intentioned measure is proposed, which would last three consecutive months – one month would cost the country 200 million euros and the overall financial implications for the budget would be 600 million euros. We believe that this measure would, of course, achieve certain financial effects, but this is not a pre-confirmed fact, nor was any pre-known effect of any measure so far taken to remedy the consequences of this epidemic. It should therefore be borne in mind that the government has proposed and this Parliament has already adopted four anti-korona packages or laws that have been well-acquired and already show results. Previous packages have already achieved a waiting-at-home measure so that unemployment has not increased dramatically by keeping more than 200 000 employees and jobs. With a single crisis solidarity supplement, this government has occupied over 600,000 people from the most vulnerable groups. The measures involved 1.3 million people, including tourist vouchers or vouchers, are already clearly helping in the law of tourism. It is also known that at this regular July session we have considered and confirmed a package of measures in which the government follows the wishes of the population, i.e. workers, and the economy. Although the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Intervention Measures proposed by the LMŠ Group is well-meaning, in the last quarter the government, with most measures and anti-Korona packages of laws, has already achieved the effects followed by this measure. Some €7.1 billion has already been spent on this, with €1.7 billion more than anticipated. The following measures by the government and the next anti-korona package will also further affect the start-up of the economy and the maintenance of jobs and the promotion of cash flow in the country. Of course, it is also necessary to ask whether the further three-month distribution of funds in the form of prepaid cards, which is some kind of solidarity aid to the population that some have already received, would also be motivated. Would those who work in such a socially generous state still choose to work and work? In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we do not support the proposed Act on Supplements to the Law on Intervention Measures for the Mitigation and Elimination of the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic in such a form.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Marjan Šarca Group will be presented by Jerco Korča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings to all, nice greetings to the representatives of the Ministry! The Council and Slovenia faced an epidemic that was essentially a health problem. In order to contain the virus, we have also taken restrictive measures in Slovenia, which have led to a partial halt to certain activities. In addition, the Slovenian economy was further affected by the strong export attitude of our companies. The measures taken are largely intended to freeze the situation. When we look at antikron packages, they are primarily focused on maintaining jobs through financial injections that provide incentives to keep the job. So with anti-Korona packages we offered companies and employees an opportunity to survive the interim period. State interventionism is in particular one. The first shock that companies would react to with forgiveness has been prevented by the State with its injections. With its measures already taken, the government provides artificial breathing to maintain jobs. This is too small, and we are particularly concerned about what long-term action will bring or how many jobs will be carried out at the time of granting these measures. In the LMŠ, we believe that such measures were necessary at the time of the first shock and we did not oppose them at the outset, but at the same time we believe that the Government, when adopting mega-packages, has forgotten the necessity of creating a vision to enable the breathing of the market, consumption and production. Without creating visions of how to act yesterday and what we will do will be awakened into a frozen reality that will hurt for all of us. Now we can say that we are already deep in phase two, in a phase where treatment is needed from injections. Instead of looking for alternative solutions to accelerate domestic consumption and relaunch and increase growth, the government is still engaged in measures that constitute an extension of the freezing state. Well, at the same time, the lack of a vision of short- and medium-term behaviour masks topics such as acts of discord on historical topics, unopened envelopes, tasteless tweets and such matters. With the proposal before you today, we are helping, helping the Government find an alternative, helping to recover the economy, helping to start consumption, helping the country and people. For the welfare of the former is intertwined with the welfare of others. Even now, it is clear that economic recovery is significantly slower than the initial forecasts and expectations. As a result, fear is strengthened, fear of risks, fear of job stability, fear of uncertain futures and the consequences of the population are not wasted, companies are not investing. The spiral of consequent pessimism at all levels is clear. That is why we want to stimulate demand and consumption in the List of Marjan Šarca, thus slowing down the decline of GDP or stimulating growth. Any crisis can always be the cause of negativeness, depression and general deterioration; it can be the cause of convulsions and the reduction of public consumption. At least we learned something from the past. In the LMŠ we hope that the answer to the question is whether the teacher’s history in this area is attached and clear to virtually everyone. Every school costs something they say. And the ZUJF school showed us how not to act. Let's make this one, this other one costs less. Because of what we have learned so far and everything that we really need to know about today. We can say that the coronary crisis has given us quite a few insights, namely how we need to strengthen public health, how we contribute, how taxes and everything that companies have taken in the sense of the country's greed, that all of this also means that we are able to take care of each other in times of crisis. The economy and the state are not separate, the clock is connected and as such they are complementary and cooperative. And thirdly, it turns out that domestic consumption saves us during the crisis. And it is precisely the last lesson of the crown of crisis that must be taken seriously. In the Letter of Marjan Šarc, with the proposal of a universal supplement, we put to the table the first step that will immediately take effect in raising domestic consumption. We all need to approach and form a combination of different measures without delay, which will ease the recession in the short and medium term and thus actually help to preserve jobs. It is urgent to act quickly and actively. We waited, but we were really waiting for the government to present an alternative, which, apparently, until today, has not been able to design. Instead, it still brings us intervention laws, which mean only the financing of the status quo. That is why we have joined the LMŠ to develop an alternative route. We have set up a set of measures, which, in our view, are crucial mainly for: improving the economic situation in the field of domestic consumption, slowing down the decline in gross social product and strengthening the principle of solidarity and ensuring equal baseline opportunities and reducing social exclusion. We see this alternative in the LMŠ in several steps. Firstly, the first short-term measure is the temporary introduction of a universal income of EUR 100 per month for a period of three months. Secondly, the second measure is the subsidisation of household investments in energy rehabilitation of buildings and the transition to renewable energy by subsidies. The third measure is measures to accelerate public investment in infrastructure. Fourthly, the fourth measure is the diversion of European funds into co-financing the construction of green local infrastructure and municipal projects with rapid impacts. And this today's action ahead of us is the first step. We are talking about a quick and practically simplest measure to raise domestic consumption. It is a very simple step, and calculations and projections, of course, are not the product of the imagination of Members of the Marjan Šarc List, but rather of the reasoned economic analyses. Well, yes, even if we put aside all these professional bases, already a healthy farmer's mind tells us that such a measure is very quick and easy to help raise domestic consumption. The fact that these funds will be distributed on cards and will force the consumer to make a purposeful use and will not be able to save them. The arguments why the Government does not support this proposal are, in our view, torn and transparent and do not convince us. On the contrary, we read the Government's opinion in terms of supporting the proposal, but it is obvious, unfortunately, that the proposaler is wrong. Nevertheless, we hope that the Members will recognize the well-intentionedness and prudence of the proposed law. We believe and trust that you will find the courage to support the proposal. If ever, then now is the time to introduce temporary universal income. We are truly looking forward to today's debate in the LMŠ, which we can also use to find alternative paths and to confront opinions. In our policy, we have witnessed excessive negativity, strife, contention in recent times. Today is an opportunity to discuss the alternative path, what we need to do for the future. Prime Minister Janez Janša dictates a discourse of separation and capture in the past. But here we can begin to dictate discussions on the future, on the fact that there are alternatives, on the fact that there are positive stories and good suggestions. The opportunity is today and here. In our first reading, we look forward to broad support and give our word that we will be happy to agree on any changes, improvements, any dilemmas that will be expressed, and we will be most pleased to listen to you. It is not just political prestige, it is about taking the first steps that will help our country and all of us, but especially our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Last week, the National Assembly adopted a fourth anti-Korona package of intervention measures, extending for one month some measures to mitigate the consequences of a possible second wave of the epidemic, with the possibility that the government would extend them twice more. In presenting the anti-Korona legislative package, we have stressed that our main criticism remains the short duration of the proposed measures. Our common objective must be to preserve jobs and economic activities. Therefore, when adopting the legislation, we proposed to extend the remuneration for waiting until 31 December 2020, reintroduce the provisional basic income for self-employed persons and extend the validity of tourist vouchers until 28 February 2021. Unfortunately, however, all our proposals have been rejected. In the current situation of the epidemic and the fact that we still do not have an effective cure or vaccine, social distances and other restrictive measures will still be needed, as they are the only effective way to curb the rapid spread of the epidemic. As long as restrictive measures are needed, measures will also be needed to mitigate the social and economic consequences of the epidemic. Social Democrats welcome all the well-intentioned proposals of other political parties aimed at mitigating the social and economic consequences of the epidemic. One such proposal that we will consider at first reading in the National Assembly today was proposed by the List of Marjan Šarc. The introduction of a temporary universal income of EUR 100 per month for three months aims to stimulate demand and consumption, thereby slowing down the decline in gross domestic product. According to their calculations, this is expected to increase by 1,2 % within three months. Promoting domestic demand at the time of the decline in economic growth is one of the key macroeconomic measures that contribute to mitigating social consequences. Domestic demand is most often encouraged mainly by public investment, which has wider developmental multiplier effects and responds to the type of social needs. For example, investment in the modernisation of road, rail or energy infrastructure, construction of public apartments, schools, hospitals or homes for older citizens. However, the fight against climate change also makes public investment more important for energy efficiency, renewable energy and sustainable transport. Social Democrats are of the view that investment that strengthens public infrastructure and can largely cover the costs of borrowing is a more appropriate way of spending public money to promote domestic demand and economic growth. For us, there is a special advantage to public investment to address social needs as an investment in a new infectious clinic or the construction of a larger number of homes for the elderly. In the discussions on measures to preserve business activity and promote economic growth, it is also important to note that a significant proportion of the Slovenian economy is represented by export-oriented companies which will not benefit from the introduction of temporary base income, as they depend on demand in the global market, which Slovenia cannot influence. At the time of the epidemic, export companies have therefore addressed requests for assistance in ensuring the liquidity of companies and job conservation as a result of the large downturn of contracts to the country. While neither the economy nor the unions have proposed the introduction of universal income as one of the measures to mitigate the social and economic consequences of the epidemic. Social Democrats believe that it is the assistance of a country aimed at maintaining business activities and protecting jobs that is the best form of state aid that contributes to greater certainty and a little more optimism. However, for more optimism and confidence in the future, we need much longer-term measures that would not only apply for one month, because the longevity of the measures would have a greater psychological impact on people, thereby encouraging more consumption of, above all, sustainable consumer goods that contribute most to higher economic growth. In three months after 100 euros, the provisional universal base income would be paid to all the people of Slovenia, including those who do not need this 100 euro, because they already have enough income. From a social point of view, it would be far more equitable for those in Slovenia who live in poverty to receive such assistance, to be unemployed, to have low pensions or to receive a minimum wage or salary, which is below the Slovenian average. We believe that these groups would be helped in the form of €100 in three months to make it easier for them to get through these months. For this reason, the Social Democrats continue to advocate that we must provide the employee with an adequate payment for the right life and for those receiving social assistance with sufficient funds for survival. That is why, last autumn, we opposed the intentions of the then government coalition, which we were also members of, in order to abolish the allowance for employment for recipients of social assistance. In the future, we will certainly continue to discuss the possibility of introducing a universal basic income, as there is an ever-increasing gap in the labour market between the capacity of the social state, which has successfully solved social problems in the past and, unfortunately, an ever-increasing inability to address the social challenges of modern times, with the greatest challenge being the very large share of criminal workers in us who have suffered major social and economic damage even during the epidemic. To date, various attempts to introduce universal basic income worldwide have not proved feasible, as its introduction requires high financial resources and undermines the existing logic of the social security system based on the relationship between paying social contributions from work and providing pensions and compensation for sickness or unemployment. Despite these concerns, we will today support the draft law in the first reading, as we believe it follows or pursues the right goals, i.e. raising domestic consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Good-bye, everyone. When we talk about coronavirus, the debate on the consequences of this infectious disease is inevitable and an integral part of finding solutions and getting out of the current crisis not only in the field of public health but also in particular in the field of economy. The effects of the Coronavirus were most evident in the real economy. Due to the necessary measures to control the spread of the epidemic, its bicycle did not rotate for a short time with full installations. To this end, the current government has taken concrete measures to help the Slovenian economy. Financing waiting for work, subsidising shorter working hours, tourist vouchers, solidarity allowances, these are just a few measures that have made a decisive contribution over the past months to making Slovenian companies easier to breathe and move into higher gear. Of course, it must be borne in mind that we cannot get to the ideal situation overnight. The bill that we are considering today is convinced that a monthly universal income should be introduced to improve the economic situation. They offer 100 euros for each citizen for 3 months and this amount could be spent on purchasing goods and services in Slovenia. The proposed universal income thus has some elements of universal core income. The concept of universal basic income or a shorter UTD is based on the fact that it is a periodic amount of money for all citizens regardless of their property status. Therefore, in this sense, in the SMC, we welcome the idea of proposing and we want this debate to take place today in this direction. Discussions about the possible introduction of UTDs every so long find their place in society and in the time of so-called ‘UTD’. The calls for its reintroduction have become louder. In the SMC, we believe that today's proposal for a law can provide a basis for such a debate to begin, particularly on its place in our society. However, a more serious discussion will certainly have to be based on relevant data and analyses. However, the provisional UTF, as proposed by the LMŠ, unfortunately has quite a few shortcomings, which the government also draws attention to in its opinion. Finally, the proposal for a law is flawed by the fact that the financial consequences are not adequately assessed. The mere fact that the bill does not take into account the cost of making prepaid cards on which 100 euros would be charged, says enough. As it is said, in the SMC, as liberals, we look forward to today's debate on the UTD, but we believe that such a pilot project of its introduction is not sufficiently divided so that it can today receive our support. As a society, we need a serious, responsible, professional and political reflection and a broader debate on universal core income. Above all, we need a debate that will only exceed today's definition for and against the proposed changes. In the SMC, we want to have a more serious discussion about the new social contract, which UTD is sure to have, as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, hello! In the new government anti-Korona law, the LMŠ Group proposes the introduction of a temporary universal income to which all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would be entitled. FURS would direct each of us to the prepaid card three times 100 euros that could be spent on domestic traders and service providers. The proposed measure is intended to pursue both the objective of promoting consumption in order to address the negative consequences of the crisis and the objective of ensuring social justice. In Levi, we believe that budget allocations aimed at social security should be targeted at improving the situation of the poorest, the most exploited, the most excluded. We do not support the reduction of budget resources for the luxury consumption of the rich, so we fought to raise the minimum wage, so we fought to raise social assistance, raise the protection allowance and therefore oppose tax reforms for the rich. However, the crisis must first and foremost be tackled by promoting public investment and not by promoting private consumption. More than tax-free or subsidising private consumption, we need to launch public investment in the construction of non-profit housing, railways, health infrastructure, long-term care and other pillars of social solidarity infrastructure. The budget cost of a three-fold universal income payment of €100 would be €600 million. With this money, we could build more than 7,000 non-profit apartments, more than 10 infectious clinics, and more than a hundred homes for the elderly. Such projects are not only more appropriate in terms of ensuring social security, but also in terms of the multiplier effects of promoting consumption. This is because public investment is directly and fully channelled into an increase in aggregate demand and thus into higher GDP, while part of the additional resources that the population receives through tax breaks or budgetary expenditure is transferred to savings. In addition, we note that the budgetary financing of universal income is equal to that of all those disputed in terms of redistribution of wealth. Budget resources must be collected in the last instance with taxes and taxes in Slovenia are mostly regressive. The only progressive tax is the income, the earnings from the wealthier are taxed at a higher rate than the income of the poor, but the tax revenue from the income was a good tenth of all budget revenues. However, the large majority of budget revenues are derived from regressive taxes, more than 40 from VAT and more than 15 % from excise duties. These taxes on consumption are paid at the same rates by both the poor and the rich, so the poor have to deduct a much higher share of their income than the rich. The same applies, of course, to taxes on property and capital. It is precisely because the pocket taxes of the poor hit far more than the rich that it is all the more necessary not to reproduce the regressive effects of the unfair tax system at the level of budgetary expenditure. Public expenditure must be channelled towards universally accessible public services that will be available to all and to social assistance, which must primarily serve the eradication of poverty. However, we must not allow them to flow back into the pockets of the rich, who are already so least burdened with taxes. For this reason, we cannot support the universal income of both the poor and the rich in the budget, three times per 100 euros per month. We're talking about large amounts. When we advocate a rise in social assistance in Levica, we face the obvious every time that money for the poor and excluded is not enough. However, for monetary social assistance in Slovenia, we spend less than €23 million per month on a monthly basis. For a universal income of 100 euros, it would require 200 million euros a month, which is nine times the expenditure we spend on financial social assistance. By rationally dividing 600 million euros into the hands of those who actually need money, they could do a great deal to curb inequality. However, if we simply distribute EUR 600 million to each citizen, regardless of his financial situation, we will simply reproduce the same flat-rate amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm trying to tell myself, and I understand, and I believe in the honesty of the proponents that this is about helping the government. A reflection on the universal income of EUR 100 per month to be received in October, November and December this year by all persons who had had 13 March, this is the day of the government's permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. That thought is in place. I'm really talking. On 19 December 2018, we voted in this National Assembly on the proposal of New Slovenia, which was a proposal for a household allowance of EUR 100, a household allowance. We failed with the proposal, and we are not insulted by it. There were 33 votes in favour and 44 against, including the vote of the motioners of today's amendment to the Law on Intervention Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of the Epidemic. But that's the past. If we understand the solution, the proposed solution, the funds would be placed on a special card and the beneficiaries could spend them on purchases in stores, restaurants, cultural and sports activities and service activities by the end of 2020. Universal basic income would be transferable to relatives to the second generation. A deliberate solution, but a question arises, colleagues and colleagues, how many people from the edge of society go to trade – yes, they go for basic foods. The number of restaurants they go to — probably very few. How much they go to cultural events, how much they deal with sports activities and so on, people from the edge of society. Okay, you'll tell them there's more to the store. Regarding public financial effects, the Government said that the calculation of public financial effects was questionable. It is perfectly normal for the Government to have a broader apparatus than those proposed by the parliamentary group of any and here at this point of course we understand and believe the Government. The measures of this coalition and this government – four antikron packages we have had so far, they have only gone to help people and help the Slovenian economy. What you remember this May, the automotive industry said, if there's no state aid spending, we're going to fail. On Sunday, on national television, I listened to an eminent businessman, a representative of the automotive industry, who expressed his sincere appreciation to the Government for saving not only the automotive industry, but the economies in general. By this point, the calculation probably cannot be made mathematically exact, but we can say that from this point on, or the National Assembly has accepted four ptoricorporone packages to this day insured approximately 300,000 jobs before the collapse. That's a grade. Assessment of the competent ministry. If we look at what we really are for people, let us leave the economy, what we have done for people, this National Assembly. Solidarity aid and allowances were paid to 51 000 480 self-employed, farmers, shareholders and religious workers in the 83.1 million euro group. Next, 302 000 224 pensioners were paid a one-off solidarity allowance of three amounts, for all who have a pension of less than 700 euros. It was a total cost, but it was a cost for people and we should not consider it a cost, that was for people, in particular 302,000 pensioners, at EUR 66.4 million. Solidarity aid and allowances were also paid to 109 000 779 children and 125 000 402 beneficiaries of a child allowance totalling EUR 5.7 million and 28 000 880 families paid an allowance for large families amounting to EUR 3.5 million. A single solidarity allowance of 150 euros was paid to 49 000 839 recipients of cash social assistance or beneficiaries of a security allowance of a total value of 7.5 million euros. 52 000 180 students totaling 7.8 million euros. And 7 000 118 beneficiaries of a child care allowance totalling a good million euros. And 4 thousand 41 additional beneficiaries of the maternity or parental allowance totalling EUR 606,000. 1740 parental allowance beneficiaries totalling EUR 261,000. 805 foster parents for the child by the age of 18 years, totalling €120,000 and 49 beneficiaries of partial payment for lost income totalling €7 000 300. There are far larger numbers, but of course they go and have already gone to help the economy, to preserve jobs. Because we know, colleagues and colleagues, that from the economy, our economies all of us, we all live. And a well-functioning economy is a prerequisite, it is the basis for financing the social state that we are all working for. We cannot support this proposal. If you look at the classifications of activities following the standard classification of activities where beneficiaries could cash in a voucher, they cover service activities and retail trade, and these are activities which have been very differently affected during the epidemic. In the first five months of this year, for example, real income in retail trade was indeed 10.9 per cent lower than in the same period of the previous year, with a decrease of 8.1 per cent lower in specialised motor fuel stores than in the same period, but even 1 per cent higher in retail trade. Interesting. One percent higher. These are information you can see on the website of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. As I will also cover trade in basic food, it is entirely possible for beneficiaries of universal income to spend only on regular household purchases, food, drinks that they would make in any case. In this way, people would not be encouraged to have additional domestic consumption, but not so extensive as to help improve the economic situation, which is the basic objective of the bill, if we understand correctly. In view of the current situation in the field of retail trade, when the downward trend is already markedly upwards. The real turnover from retail sales was again higher in May 2020 at monthly level after 12.4% in March this year and 8.6% in April this year by 12.8%. And it seems from this that the government measures so far have been successful and further promoting consumption in retail trade is neither necessary nor budgetaryly justified. This is just a few arguments why we cannot support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you, President, for your word. Your Honor! The concept of universal core income, followed by the present proposal, is not new. The latter has already been discussed in both Europe and in our country. At the initiative of Alenka Bratušek, we also held a broad debate in this house not so long ago, at a meeting of the Labour Committee. But if, at first glance, the idea of providing unconditional basic income for each individual is not so in reality. It is a complex and multi-dimensional matter that requires broad engagement of both the general and the professional and political public. The bill before us follows the idea of the UTD, as it is called, for the purpose of promoting the economic situation in the field of domestic consumption, by giving everyone residing in the Republic of Slovenia 100 euros per special prepaid card per month over a period of three consecutive months, from October to December. In the SAB Group, we favour the idea of universal monthly income, but we still have some concerns to express here. Each measure is always related to money and the UTD is by no means an exception. I must recall, however, that at the time of Marjana Sharca, the problem was to provide some ten million per year for an immediate increase in the percentage of pensions. Now this same party proposes a measure worth 200 million euros a month, I repeat, at a monthly level of 200 million. Otherwise, I would prefer to give these three times 200, 600 million for purposes rather than for some additional army equipment that would provide additional profits. We can be thrilled at the idea that every citizen of our country would get an additional 100 euros, why not 200, why not 500 or why not a thousand, as a party promised the lowest pension. Let us be responsible and propose measures that will be feasible, for this is the only way to show a constructive and serious attitude, without the cost-effective accumulation of political points. In addition to financial sustainability, the proposal has also hampered the intention of spending and temporaryity. The fundamental idea of the UTD is that it is constant to be introduced, and this essentially replaces some social transfers. This is a fundamental idea, as it is developed throughout the world, and this is how we welcome it. But given the perceptive situation in which the whole world is in this year, we believe that the proposal is even useful to us as pilots, to meet with it, to try to see what it looks like to see these connotations waiting for us, and in this way we would probably get a lot of answers to the question in our society, how this would work. In Finland, as you know, this project has been running, but it has run a very limited time for certain structures, not generally, as UTD is supposed to, because if we give unselectively, this is a very simple measure, which sticks or limits administration, is very simple, linearly done and you can take it. That's why we're giving the helicopter money, let's give it to him. And we are, we will support this precisely because we can consider this a pilot project for future UTD thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. All the measures so far aimed at controlling and mitigating the consequences that COVID-19 has left behind, which it does not want and does not want to take, have had a marked and clear path. This led to the protection of the population, primarily the preservation of health. At the same time, it was concerned about the social stability of society, in particular vulnerable groups, and the economy was protected that this could be maintained. As it turns out, we will have to live with this new non-innocent disease for a long time, so stopping life, which is likely to happen at the outbreak itself, will not be able to practice at any time when a slightly higher number of infections will occur. It is therefore important that measures are well thought out and set in the direction of maintaining public life in a way that takes into account several areas at the same time. The following is important: maximum possible preservation of human health; sufficient health capacity; survival of the real sector; and prevention of social distress for citizens and citizens. With targeted measures for the economy and social sector, we have thus far saved 260 000 jobs and allocated some 155 million euros directly to those most in need of financial assistance at the time of the epidemic. The universal income to be allocated to all residents in the Republic of Slovenia, as explained by the LMŠ Party, which does not take into account the economic status of the individual, is nothing more than an unrealistic and irresponsible act. A comparison between the Government's assistance to the people with solidarity supplements between carefully selected groups with the proposal to spend €600 million, which would also be for people who really don't need it, says that, unfortunately, some still have a blurred picture of the actual situation. The reality is that a pensioner probably spends 100 euros on milk and bread, and a few individuals in our country are those who would buy things for that money that they wouldn't otherwise buy. Private spending at the expense of the proposed three-month 100 euro vouchers would vary according to the income class of the individual. However, according to the government, the net fiscal impact would not reach half of the estimated value of the bill. DeSUS is the key focus and dissatisfaction of the measures. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that even with the help of financial injections from external institutions there is no bottomless bag. The goods remain at a level ahead of the crown crisis, but they are not, as traders have compensated for the difficult supply and reduced competition with higher prices, it would also make sense to support consumption through the proposed measure by the LMŠ Party. [[Incomprehensible]] However, as consumption has fallen as a result of the deterioration of the labour market situation and, consequently, greater public safety in the purchase of goods, it is more appropriate for us to try more financial efforts to protect jobs. The latter, according to our assessment, are key to the consumer activity of the entire population. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that action against the consequences of the Coronavirus is meaningful if it is focused on those goals that save and sustain the stability of our economy and consequently the economic sustainability of individual households. The loss of an individual’s service cannot replace the EUR 100, 200 or 300 offered by the proposed law. In the DeSUS Group today offered [[?]] We cannot therefore support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The text shall be given by the representative of the proposer first. Here you go, Mr. Igor Peck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much to all colleagues for their views. I would like to touch on some of the particulars, but at the outset, let me say that there will be no controversy or denial of certain particulars, because I think they were correct, but only the search for a common solution or what we have expressed in some way in our view is universal income based on the criteria or the basis of the UTD. [[?]] which has also been expressed in different opinions is an alternative solution to the proposed measures taken by the Government so far and to which I do not challenge, while at the same time complementing not only the alternative. The measures we have taken so far regarding job protection have also been meaningful and we must continue to strive to maintain jobs, as has been said in Desus' position, for example, I agree with this, but these measures are a freeze on the state, the essence of universal income is that this is a measure, a short-term measure that promotes an economic or economic situation by increasing consumption and that is one of the key principles of the social market economy, the key principles. In large countries, it has already been introduced either experimentally. We know cases in the United States. In Finland, the Scandinavian countries are very inclined to do so, it is a measure that is repeated in certain parallels and the moments at which we are in the Republic of Slovenia today are those that justify and require the introduction of such a measure. The fact is that economic forecasts for next year are positive, economic growth is forecast, but it is necessary to say that consumers do not trust it and the result is the decline in household consumption in April by more than 6%, but I am not talking about retail, I am talking about consumption in general, because the essence is not consumption in retail, the point is that people do not choose to buy permanent goods and let's say investment goods, for example, where they belong, I don't know, buying television. It was said that people would spend this money to buy something else they would not, yes, they would, and also, we will explain later in the discussions what we meant in concrete terms. Gross domestic product fell by a good 20% in the first quarter, the estimate is that by the end of the year it may be up to 15%, and if we want to implement a rapid demand promotion measure, this is an increase in household income. Here, too, it can be social transfers, it can be an increase in pensions, it can be an increase in wages, it can be a single solidarity contribution, and there is something else to count. These virtually immediately raise private demand, thus easing the fall of gross domestic product or accelerating its growth. One key flaw is that, at any personal gain, solidarity aid, what we have advocated. And this key flaw is that part of this increase or part of this transfer and assessment, not the assessment, these are the analyses that have been made, shows that at least one third of this money is being saved, but the universal income that we propose is not about this, because it is time-limited. As for the government's opinion, yes, it is likely that Furs was not established to simply issue cards, based on the register record of consumption. His task is certainly something else, but we are, say, very successful in vouchers. That the net fiscal effect will not be what it is, yes, you probably have a stronger apparatus to calculate it. But I didn't find any arguments in your explanation to deny our assessment. It is not only an assessment because the assessment of this effect is based on at least two studies of world-renowned economists. Income isn't going to be 60, it's going to be 30? I can do that. You can be right because it is very difficult to predict how households and the population behave in the face of such cramps that the economy is experiencing today. It can also be 30, and certainly this cost will not be 200 million per month. Those who state that this cost will cost a country or a budget of 200 million have not read our proposal as it would be necessary to understand it fully. As we say, we were trying to choose an alternative path. The fact is, we need to start public investment, that's what was said. This is certainly one of the medium-term or long-term measures. However, it takes time to make public investments. And the time in which we are now does not allow us this opportunity to wait, to maintain some state of the economy, to maintain jobs, which we welcome. Nevertheless, 20,000 employees are more in the institution than they were, but that is a fact, a cruel fact that we are all familiar with. There would be more if there were no such measures, but it is only for the citizens. We need encouragement from the other side. That's what I'd have for an introduction or a brief comment on my point of view. Maybe only if you let me, well, to the government's opinion. When we talked about acceptance, I think it was 29. 5. When we passed the Tourism Bonds Act, your assessment was that the state would cost 345 million. The multiplier effect that you assessed was 600 million — not to mention 600 million. Then it turned out that you were the original measure, I would even believe it if your purpose at first was the same or you would not change it so that the voucher would have to be spent in one piece. And then you went to change that, but the score stayed the same. We are planning a 30% increase, you 100%, and now tell us that our assessment is too optimistic. I even think she's pessimistic, but in any way I respect your opinion. As my colleague Horvath said, you have a much stronger machine to calculate this, we are doing this on the basis of analyses that are accessible to us and we can also accept your assessment, but certainly the multiplier effect will and you yourself have acknowledged this. That's it, chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is Edward Paulic, to prepare Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you, President, for your word. In the beginning, I'd like to give you some facts or statistics. The unemployment rate, compared to June 2020 with June 2019, is higher by 26%. The general confidence of consumers, which is a reflection of optimism in society for the next 12 months, fell by 41 percentage points in one year. A more detailed analysis shows that the unemployment rate indicator decreased by 59% and the household financial situation by 34%. These statistics, or these numbers, have meaning. Consumers are more pessimistic, expect higher unemployment and less available money to spend. All I have said is proof that the situation is serious and that the general public is not convinced of the rapid improvement of the situation in the country. This is also largely attributed to the psychological impact of the 2008 crisis. Although the economic forecasts for next year predict economic growth, this is clearly not what people believe. And the logical reaction of citizens is, of course, saving, increased uncertainty in people is causing investments to be transferred and only spending constraints. The problem is that economic estimates also show that GDP fell by a good 20% in the second quarter, and that the decline in GDP for 2020 could be between 9% and 15%. We therefore need swift measures to mitigate the decline in GDP, restore at least part of the consumer's confidence and encourage domestic consumption. Government measures are too slow, do not function fully and do not achieve the purpose they should, that is to say, rescue from recession. They focus mainly on the economy and job conservation, better said, to freeze jobs and if there is no increase in domestic consumption, jobs will be at risk as government subsidisation measures cannot last indefinitely. Government measures so far have also not addressed the problem of demand shock. According to the SURS, the final consumption of households decreased by 6.4 percentage points in the first quarter. In short, a rapid increase in consumer demand is a key factor in economic recovery. If I now focus on the effects of our proposal, the primary purpose of introducing universal income is to improve the economic situation in the field of domestic consumption and, of course, to mitigate the fall in gross social product. Our proposal has five key features. EUR 100 per month for all residents resident in the Republic of Slovenia, income will be limited in time, so it will be necessary to spend it by the end of the year, it will be possible only for purchases of goods and services in the Republic of Slovenia, consumption will not be limited to purchases of certain types of products or services, but an impact multiplier with factor 1.3 is foreseen. This means that in addition to €100 of universal income, the consumer spends an additional EUR 30 that would not otherwise be spent. In assessing these multiplier effects, therefore, how much more of their money consumers are willing to spend in case they receive universal income, we are resisting in two studies. The first study of Romer and Romer in 2016, where economists analyze the impact of a sustained increase in social transfers to American households. They found it to be a multiplier effect of 1.27. Then there is a study of four economists from 2020 called the BBLM study. Analyse the effects of single transfer to adults with lower annual incomes and find that in certain cases the effect may be even higher than factor 2. Although our proposal is slightly different, it assumes that the temporary income is earned by all, covers a longer period of time, so it is not unique and cannot be saved from this study, so we estimate that the multiplier effect will be between 1.3 and 2. In short, I estimate that some compromise multiplier 1.3 corresponds to a very conservative estimate. In its proposal, the government is flatly challenging the expected impact of our proposal, despite the fact that we are leaning on and referring to two studies of recognised economists. At the same time, the same Government did not rely on any study and apparently the effects were assessed over the thumb when introducing so-called tourist vouchers. So what will be the impact on public finances; I stress that this is a matter of monthly effects. The budget will cost EUR 200 million, the increase in total consumption will be €260 million, €200 million for universal income and €60 million for additional own resources. This means a month-long positive impact on GDP of 0.4%. There will be fewer job losses, resulting in less pressure on social transfers. Increasing domestic consumption will increase inflows to the state budget for VAT and excise duties, and these additional inflows will amount to €65 million per month. A few more words on the subject of funding sources. The fact is that we currently have 7.1 billion liquidity assets at the state treasury. We have added EUR 5 billion to the ECB's resources, half of which is grants. Today's proposed measure will effectively cost us €405 million within three months. Finally, our proposal is somewhat comparable to that of the government when it introduced the so-called tourist voucher. The aim was to stimulate demand for tourist facilities and to stimulate the consumer to spend more of his money in addition to the sheepdog. But here it was a narrowly targeted measure aimed only at tourism and was unique. Our measure is a broader one, covering the whole spectrum of the economy and the population. And since the measure is of a more sustainable nature, it also reduces consumer uncertainty and thus raises domestic consumption. Therefore, if today's proposed measure were to be introduced for a three-month period, additional inflows to the budget of €195 million would have increased domestic consumption by €550 million, the measure would have a positive impact on GDP at 1.2 percentage points. It is also important that the Government today has not declared any time to discuss. In the light of past calls for cooperation, these calls from the Government show that they are dishonest, as they could at least participate in the debate in a reasoned manner. I always allow the possibility that the proposal is not optimal and that it can be improved, but that we can do it, we must confirm it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I can see that Micah Kordish, the reported man, is not in the hall. The next is Marijan Pojbič, who is not. Thus shall he receive the word of Mojc Znidarič, and shall prepare the moon of Luka.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The proposed amendments or proposed amendment to the bill propose the introduction of a universal income of EUR 100 in the last three months of this year. So, all beneficiaries – these would be all residents with permanent residence in Slovenia on Day 13. 3rd this year – we would receive a special prepaid card on which Furs would charge EUR 100 in October, November and December this year. The consumption should be by the end of each month or the funds would have fallen. Universal income could be used to buy goods, services, but only in Slovenia. I think it would make even more sense here that it would only be for Slovenian products and crops. The proposer assesses the financial implications, as we have heard, of about 200 million per month, so in three months this would amount to about 600 million. It is true, of course, that there would also be certain positive impacts, both on increased consumption and on the increase in fiscal inflows, but I am surprised by the fact that so far the opposition has challenged too much spending, over-distribution, indebtedness of the state and of the citizens when we adopt all four anti-invasives, these anti-invasive laws. This time, however, we would now share with all those who need these funds every month and even those who do not need them. So it's for all citizens. As I have already said in my position, it is probably time to start the debate on universal core income. However, this proposal, which we have on the table today in this temporary universal income, has at least two aspects of shortcomings. One is, as has already been said, that the financial implications are not realistically assessed, as the Government has warned. In particular, I would like to put it on this prepaid card myself, so someone should make two million of us, even if it cost us the euro, or we won't get it for the euro, but if we say it would cost two euros, it's 4 million costs. As we can verify, this card is for transport, free transportation of pensioners even costs 3 euros, so to speak, that is, if it were such prices, that is even 6 million to make these cards and then Furs would load these 100 euros every month. So another flaw or other question is whether the introduction of this prepaid card would be even timely, so it is a questionable time, since the proposal of the law provides that 1. 10. these cards have been in force and useful, but it should be borne in mind that – it is necessary to comply with the Public Procurement Act, because it is mandatory to carry out a public contract, as a result also of publication in the European Official Journal and so on, so that I think there are at least you and probably also several aspects of the shortcomings that I would like to draw attention to. Now my view is that the possible introduction of universal core income must be made ready, informed, researched and gradually. I propose that we start perhaps with juvenile citizens first, i.e. by introducing a universal child allowance, including a broader debate, but as we have seen the majority of the parties have agreed before the elections in this regard. As an interesting point, only 64% of Europeans surveyed in 2016 supported the introduction of a universal core income, while Switzerland, which we all like to compare or want to become Switzerland, rejected the entry of basic income in the referendum of 77% in 2016. In this respect, there is much dilemma about basic income in general. In any case, it will be necessary to open them up a little bit more once and for all, so that, as I said in my position, as liberals, we support the introduction of the UTD in the SMC, but this must certainly be explored and wider and more devoted to more analysis and research to this, because there are also a lot of concerns, including about motivation for work and so on, so that I will not be able to support this proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The next is Luke Moon, who is not in the hall. There is no Dr. Mate Tashner Vatovec either, so he has the word Aljaž Kovacič, to prepare Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Now there are some arguments that I would object to this bill, in fact. Even after what the Members expressed in their views, they actually support this issue in some way, but in the end they were looking for some argument that they could or would oppose it and so vote. It should also be pointed out that today we are talking about the first reading, and these little things mentioned by some of the parliamentary groups can be corrected later on in the Committee and also in the plenary session. There was also talk of some values as to how much this would mean. He also bragged about the government apparatus. Undoubtedly, the government apparatus is high, but we must not always take it as a hundred percent. And the forecasts of how much the costs of these crown packages are going to be, we can see that they've been quite flawed, in billions, if I say so. Even how many citizens will be helped has been missed. The number of companies that will receive this aid has been missed. It's kind of wrong to take a government apparatus like some gold. Also what Mojca's colleague said about the value of the card. Yeah, on the first ball it's pretty logical that the card costs something, but actually the card is kind of metaphorically written. Here it is possible to agree on everything in a similar way, such as billing, where there is no centre cost. So we can take care of all of this from here on out. As regards the universal core income that some are talking about today, we are talking about universal income today, which is a slightly different matter. But we are also talking about all citizens in universal basic income, not just some individuals. So, no, whether someone is poor or rich, young or old, we're actually talking about everyone, because the starting point when we talk about some universal issues is that we don't rule out individual groups. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we propose this universal income, so-called UD, 100 euros a month, which would be three months. My colleague Paulič has already said that he would return to the budget times 1.2 to 1.3. In our opinion, the government makes it clear that we did not properly calculate this. However, it has already been mentioned that they used the same calculation for their proposal for vouchers when the voucher should be used in a single amount and today we can use it several times, the 200 euro. So I also ask myself here about the so-called quality of calculation of these values, which will be later, given the different consumption. However, as our proposal has already said, we have taken a more pessimistic value, it is said, about an additional 30 euros. What we want to do with this is to improve the economic situation in the area of domestic consumption, slow down the reduction, the so-called fall of gross domestic product, and strengthen the principle of solidarity and prevent social distress, it is said to actually encourage consumption and increase demand. We know that in general consumer confidence, the index has fallen by about 41%, which is worrying. Why, in fact, we decided that we have tabled this so-called alternative proposal – for a simple reason, because, despite you offering us an agreement between the Government and the opposition on cooperation, you reject virtually all the amendments proposed in the CAP and we have no choice but to write this alternative proposal ourselves, which will help all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Unemployment rose from about 70,000 unemployed to 90,000, an additional 20,000 unemployed. At the same time, it is necessary to say what the Government itself says that the measures have somehow frozen the situation and, thank God, if I may say so, artificially retains people at work. But we are afraid of what will happen in a few months, so we need to be prepared, we need to find a solution, and this universal income that we are proposing in the Marjan Sarca List is the way in this direction. As a member of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, I would like to say why we went to this area, why we tabled this law – because the PKP and, in fact, everyone from the first to the last one you have prepared has let go of the very group we have warned about most – these are young people. And as I have mentioned many times in this temple of democracy, when the ZUJF happened, the future of young people has actually been overtaken. And even today, despite the fact that PKPs are to be given, all young people are not actually given. Now in the PKPs, you have left out the copyright and business contracts, which are mostly for young people. Despite the fact that you gave the students 150 euro in a single amount, you have actually forgotten or overlooked, despite warning that this is too little, given that students have about 500 euros a month and cannot actually work through student services. Student work has fallen by about 60% and we can ask ourselves sometimes, if ever, students will be able to work as much as they did before the crisis. This will also benefit students, including students who are Slovenians and who are studying abroad, who have not received this €150 according to your proposal. You have also missed out on actually young job seekers, in fact those young people who do not have the status of students do not receive social assistance or any other income. And it is to those who have this universal income that will come in handy. By calling once again on fellow Members, given that almost no parliamentary group has objected to this in its views, they have mentioned some minorities which have made it difficult to argue that this time it is only the first reading. The Marjan Sarca List opens the door, and I believe that with your suggestions we can improve this law, so that the second and third readings can be stopped.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I find that Violete Tomić is also not in the hall, which as the next reported. By having the word of Andrea Zabret, let Natasa Sukič be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yes, given the situation in the Chamber, where we are practically in the Chamber more or less Members of the LMŠ, the obvious state of the spirit regarding the debate on economic recovery is not exactly promising. But whatever. At the time of adoption of all the crownacles, we have always proposed measures in the LMŠ to help alleviate the coronary crisis and also to warn that a new crisis will come after the end of the health crisis, an economic crisis. But the government has questioned everything, whether intentionally or unintentionally, I don't know. Data show that GDP will shrink by about 20% in the second quarter. If the economy were to gradually return to last year's level by the end of December, which is, of course, quite optimistic, due to the closure of the whole economy and the decline in economic activity mainly in the second and third quarters, this could mean a decline of at least 9% in GDP per year. Unfortunately, the current trends also show a more pessimistic outlook because of the inefficiency or sufficient efficiency of the measures already taken, which would mean an annual decline in GDP by around 15% this year. These are very dramatic numbers. A number of measures have been taken with a significant impact on the state of public finances to mitigate the effects of the coronary virus. However, we do not know if it has a positive impact on the economy and people. All measures were taken practically overnight without coordination with the social partners and without listening to the opposition. In order to inform us of the effectiveness of the measures, the Fiscal Council considers this to be the case, in line with the recommendations of international organisations such as the OECD and the IMF, which are currently monitoring the public financial impact so far. The government assessed the value of one-off measures to around €4 billion when adopting coronapacks 1 and 3. In the Stability Pact 2020 programme, the value of package 1 has decreased, with an official assessment of the two packages totalling around EUR 2.8 billion. At the time of the adoption of both packages, the fiscal world has jointly estimated €2.3 billion. Currently, the direct effect of measures 1 and 3 is €1.1 billion. So, the state's current aid for the projected 3 billion aid is currently used only 1.1 billion. By saying that one of the key instruments is still not working, this is a liquidity guarantee scheme for companies. This should include a government measure already in March, which they did in Germany for example, but it will only take effect in autumn, according to recent information. And why didn't this scheme come to life? Among other things, because the government did not obstruct the mechanism by which banks would know how much guarantees are still available. In LMŠ, we proposed this solution already in April at the Committee on Finance meeting, but the coalition firmly rejected this amendment. The fact that companies will receive loans with the State guarantee only in September means that there will be so massive delays in less paid taxes and contributions to the state treasury. The government must do its utmost to influence demand through a combination of measures to ease the recession and with short- and medium-term effects, thus helping to maintain jobs. This also reduces the budget expenditure for possible unemployment and social assistance benefits. While public investment in infrastructure has the greatest impact, which at the same time stimulates the activity of a large part of the economy and their jobs, at this point as we have already heard, these are measures that take too long. We need immediate action. Very rapid demand-reducing measures are also household revenue increases, such as additional social transfers, increases in pensions and wages and single solidarity contributions, and so on, as they practically raise demand and thus ease the reduction of gross social product, but this is a key disadvantage, some of this transfer is saved and people do not spend it and this does not automatically affect GDP. Therefore, as a result of savings rather than consumption, the impact on gross social product is lower. We have experienced savings since 2012 when the Government of Janez Janša adopted the ZUJF. The country started saving on people, they got scared, they stopped spending and everything stopped. The current policy is also at European Union level, based on experience, exactly the opposite. I must say, thank God. However, the problem with the single solidarity allowances granted this year by the Government to pensioners, students, was that they were unique and not conditional on consumption, so they were largely saved and therefore did not have a greater impact on GDP, which is the essence of everything. That's what we're talking about today. This is why we have proposed universal income in the LMŠ. The advantage of this temporary universal income is not a universal and basic income, but a temporary universal income in the light of past measures such as the reduction of taxes or social transfers or the possible ZUJF, therefore it is not possible to save it, but it goes directly and fully to consumption and thus to GDP. In our own words, since we all know the saying, the money has to circulate. The provisional universal income is therefore intended to promote domestic consumption and to strengthen people's confidence, and a measure to promote the recovery of the economy must therefore be a measure to promote its long-term viability. It is very important that universal income is spent and not saved. This will affect consumption, economic activity and the rise in GDP and the well-being of Slovenia. With the three-month promotion of domestic demand by a universal income measure, GDP would increase by 1.2% and six-month promotions by 2.45, indicating that the measure makes sense. Finally, the possibility of universal basic income was discussed a while ago by the President of the Government and also his pro bono advisory team for anti-Korona measures, so I will not be surprised that you will reject the proposal today and put it into the procedure yourself in the autumn. But I have another suggestion. Today is the first debate, support our proposal and then together on the committee we are amending and together we are influencing a better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word, but Jože Lenart is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that, Vice President. So we are discussing the bill's proposal, the additions to the Law to mitigate and remedy the consequences, I will say the crown of the crisis. What our proponent, the LMŠ Group, wants to achieve with this, we have somehow heard. In fact, increase the cash flow, which, of course, has declined sharply due to coronaryism. Now, if we touch on these 100 euros that every citizen receives, which would otherwise have received in the last months of the year, of course our citizens would have liked it, our people would certainly have liked it, but they also liked the measures of the tourist voucher, and they also liked the solidarity allowance they liked, the ones they received. We have also listed a number of measures that we have already spent €7.1 billion on so far. Now, I'm not gonna say somewhere has to be over, but control has to be. And we can't know for sure now, because I will also tell the government and the ministry by now, with those things that have been adopted, it's because, as the government representative said, we don't know what people are going to spend what tax rates they're going to spend on what we should call their spending. And if I say that these arguments are actually not by any means transparent, but they are a bare reality, but, of course, we also have some kind of law because they would like to be slightly criticized that certain measures have not actually reached all people. I'm not saying that maybe someone wasn't reached, but most of them were, and you can never do 100 percent to know that they'll all be reached. But there is another point that we are not actually in a serious crisis about shopping right now. If this happens even further in advance, it can still reach out for certain more, how can I say, decisive, pragmatic things, but this moment we notice very well that people are shopping cheerfully, trade is quite full and for this reason also that I will now say our country will suddenly become more social than it was, because I find it difficult to call it different than some solidarity supplement again. But it is true that if you give those who have little to spend quickly, you can achieve some effect. The second thing is that after someone receives, I don't know, but from May to almost December he will receive 200 euros of different allowances per month, which are actually then achieved by those who are already on some social transfers, I will say almost a minimum wage, then we will have 100,000 unemployed people in the institution and no one will want to work and work. So I believe that in some parts of the population this matter could even turn down, so there would be no more motivation to take up a job. We had, let's say, I don't know, before the crown we had 70,000 unemployed at the Employment Institute, but employers said they couldn't actually get a decent workforce. There's no one here to work with. So in this case, we have already said that the government is actually following the objectives of workers, the economy, but in fact, has reached a large number of people, the real circus is 1 million 300,000 people have already achieved these measures, and if we are to do so in advance, I am not afraid that they will not be quickly out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Proposer, Igor Pecek please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman. This time I have to respond given that colleague Lenart has already used a number twice that I don't understand. That the government has so far spent 7.1 billion on recovery after the coronation. I don't know where you got that information. Let me remind you of the assessment of the Fiscal Council, which was given 6. 7. which states that the government, when adopting the crowns of package 1 and 3, assessed the value of one-off measures with a direct effect on public finances to about 4 billion, 8.8% of gross domestic product. In the stability programme in 2020, the value of the package crown was first reduced by an estimate of both packages of 2.8 billion, which is 6.2% of the estimated gross domestic product. At the time of the adoption of both packages, the fiscal council assessed the effects on public finances of 2.3 billion. However, the fact is that this figure then changed and issued a new estimate of 15. 5, I think it's like one more time. 6. and in fact, we now have the data applicable to March, April, May, June of the start of the crisis, which is the direct effect of the PKP1 measures and, in part, the PKP3 measures are zero 1.1 billion euros. 1.1 not 7.1. You may have confused the data, because I don't want to argue with you, but we have money in the treasury for a little more than 7 billion. By increasing the money in the treasury over the last period for, I think, 3.2 billion, from 4 to 3.2, which is great. Even if we got that money with loans that were cheap. What's not great is that this money's been in the treasury for two months now and that it needs to be put away, the money in the wallet doesn't do anything, except maybe for five seconds of good sense, everything else doesn't make sense. Of course, I do not report to the government, but regardless, some people or some entities, some citizens, the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, have not been in the action achieved. We think that universal income is a short-term financial stimulus that promotes private consumption and thus strengthens the economic situation. And once again, as I've already said with a short sentence, it's not a retail sale, people are going to buy what they need to survive bread, milk, basic food supplies. This is to encourage purchases and, let's say, investment in nature, that someone will buy a TV because within two months he will be able to save 200 euros and within the third month he will give 100 euros of his own and therefore have a new TV that he would not otherwise buy. And that's what Comrade Yuri Leap said, they're going to buy the things they need, or they're going to buy it in the long run, but otherwise they wouldn't. Voucher's not universal income. We can't possibly, in no case can we compare universal income to a voucher. The tourist voucher was adopted for a clearly defined purpose, to help tourism, because tourism in our GDP means a lot and it is the same that we did, but if we want to preserve jobs, if we want to improve the economic situation not only by breathing, that we give money to keep artificial jobs because people are waiting or businesses adjust their processes by working with reduced working hours, it is not enough, it is good and necessary, but unfortunately it is not enough. That's what we're talking about when we're talking about Chinese and fish. But I would add to this cost, which everyone loves very much how much it will cost us and where the money will be, because I think another one of my colleagues is going to come down to this area. However, the financial expenditure on the budget is indeed estimated at EUR 200 million, but this does not mean EUR 600 million in three months, this is a pilot project, we propose the introduction of a three-month UD, in order to see the impact at that time, then we can also talk about the multiplier effects, then we can assess that the measure is not meaningful, because the effect is too small or because it is only a matter of spending, but the fact is that if we take into account factor 1.27, this means 260 million, the fact is also that about 30% of this money will flow through total consumption abroad due to imports, which does not contribute to GDP to growth, we know that gross domestic product is all we produce, sell, do home, not bring from the outside. This means that spending will then be increased by around 180 million, representing a good 0.4% of GDP. And on the assumption that 25% of spending will be a fiscal outflow due to VAT and excise duty, regardless of whether it is possible that those with lower incomes will spend this money to buy more basic necessities of life, but this is not the goal, I say again, this is not the goal or purpose. In fact, this means 135 million, if we subtract this 65 million from 200, that is the cost of 135 and the total cost is 400 million. [[Incomprehensible]] That's the difference when we talk about 400 or 600. The wolves cost us 345, that's what the score was. That's it. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Get Jani Möderndorfer ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yes, see, unfortunately, this story of double, three-fold faster GDP growth between the countries of Europe is over, and we have grown much faster in recent years than these developed countries, and we have been getting closer to the average of the European Union's development. Although we have still completed the year 2019 with 87% on the average of the European Union's GDP. We are still falling into the bottom third of the European Union's development, if I say more specifically GDP per capita according to the purchasing power standard, of which there is a living. SE says that if we include what is below 90% is the lower third of 90 to 110 is the gold medium where Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Spain, Italy, Malta, France, Finland and all the other countries that are more developed, this is said to be very well developed. Now, yes, that is to say, these were the times when we looked under the fingers or reached enough surplus in the budget, we have reduced the debt enough, even for that we could devote, now there are completely different times and therefore these measures and therefore today's meeting as LMŠ proposes the introduction of a temporary universal basic income. Now, of course, what is this universal basic income? Above all, this is not a politically-friendly measure, as some of you wish to present here today. It is very thoughtful, on an expert basis, it is said together with experts we have worked together. We have precisely calculated these effects, what this would bring, concrete impact on GDP. See, this is a huge difference between these measures to subsidise jobs, to wait at home, if I compare this with certain subsidies that this government has allocated to certain groups. Of course, this was also necessary, but on the other hand, as a tourist voucher, which, of course, we consider to be similar to the universal basic income, which is even more than this tourist voucher, as it affects even greater GDP growth, because it is a much broader intervention in consumption. This has a real impact on the increase in demand, that is, by increasing production, production of products and, of course, services. That's what GDP brings then. All other measures are temporary measures, which, of course, have certain effects mainly on employment and on social itself and on GDP significantly less. This is precisely the goal that this universal core income should be spent, that is to say, this aid of EUR 100 per month, spent, spent. This is then a 100 % effect, which is also much easier to calculate than with certain other subsidies, where it is not safe to go into consumption. Now, of course, if we move forward, we know that with these measures, which the Government of the PKP is 1, 2, 3, 4, today has been at least repeated ten times that the effects are very bad. In the first package, certain groups were leaking. The second liquidity package, for these guarantees, has virtually no effect when compared with other countries of Europe, particularly Germany, Austria. In the third package, we have again launched certain groups, and this is discriminatory. That is a fact and we have warned about it several times. Now I'm really worried about this. All four cashiers in the fall will be in short supply. See, this is already being seen today, already in health care, even the NIJS, that there is no means, no resources, then for these supplements in the crown itself that people deserve. That's what it says here is that first sign that there are no funds. Among these measures, which we mention, even today this UTD, including tourist vouchers and, of course, the measures you have taken to subsidise pending jobs, this is due to this commitment. But I'm talking about a cash register that's getting smaller because GDP is falling, it's real production, services are falling, it's not creating, that's it. And a tourist voucher, which we appreciate, which we also gave a very positive assessment and of course an UTD would have those real effects. I am therefore very sad today that, unfortunately, the right side of the hall, even on this side, is empty, there is no particular interest in listening more to this, even though the very professional matter is justified. The line of work on this, this is actually justified and are accurate calculations. And that's what I'm really worried about. And I'm also concerned about what my colleague has pointed out several times, the treasurer. This is a very liquid state; the commitments have increased from all of these sources, which have already been mentioned several times today. And I'm wondering, I'm pretty sure the government has a certain purpose with this liquidity, but we don't know what it is. The coalition probably knows that, and we don't know that. We can only predict what will happen here and we are concerned about small businesses, small economies. We are truly concerned about what we have already warned many times. And see, today this proposal for a universal core income, which has really multiple effects on GDP and here, today could be a full hall and talk about this very seriously, because the government has to do everything to achieve this by combining measures with short- and medium-term effects. So far, we have seen that these packages have been very, very poorly efficient, and all countries are ahead of schedule. Let's go back, after that crisis 2008, Slovenia is the most backward among all the countries of Europe. The fall of GDP was the highest and I fear that Slovenia cannot act during the crisis. I'm afraid he doesn't know. And that's what I'm worried about, and that we don't know how to talk here when you ask us so much, your Prime Minister is offering us a hand to cooperate. Yeah, well, we do, and you don't even want to talk. Now, look, I'm going to show you this, Madam Secretary of State, I've told your Minister several times in this Chamber at the time of your Government that our goal must be this, as I mentioned earlier, per capita GDP according to the purchasing power standard, which we completed in 2019 at 87% according to the average of the European Union, this share was already almost reached in 2007, 2008, and then fell below 80%. Yes, under 80, because we can't take action in the crisis, and that's why we're worried, and that's why today's meeting is about trying to do more. And I let the Minister know that our success will be if we stay at least 87% after this crisis, if we lose this city, then we fail. Thank God if we grow up, we'll even get over 90%. Now your minister has answered me that, of course, it is a time of crisis and that we cannot afford it. Yes, but what countries in Europe today are not in this Covid-19 crisis? We're all on the same page. One worse, say Croatia will take them worse, because it has a larger proportion of measures, this is the real tourism-related economy that is most affected. However, certain countries will be smaller. And we need to keep this average, then we'll be successful, otherwise I don't see success, and this is the very simple criterion that I'm going to follow to this government and put it as a mirror, and then I will always tell you that you haven't listened to our proposals for better growth measures at this time of the epidemic. I want to make that clear, and we will follow that. Of course, all responsibility lies with this Government with these measures, but as I have already mentioned today and others – yes, somehow so far these effects have been very, very bad and I wonder what you are waiting for. What this liquidity is intended for, which you are now creating with additional debt and the economy is practically falling, most among all countries of the European Union, because we are not taking action. And these measures, as we said, of course we want investments that have the real effect and we want them, but this is long-term. It'll take six months, a year or more. And very, I am happy about this too; the third development axis we so desire in Koroška, I hope that in autumn it will progress with full force to invest in this area. Now, of course, this second measure, as we said around energy, is also a measure, but it also lasts a few months here before the calls are prepared and it works. However, this universal core income could have an immediate effect within the next month if this matter had been adopted. And once again, in 2019 we finished, Slovenia, at 87% of the European Union's GDP average. And I'm going to look under your fingertips at what happens in the year, the end of 2020, 2021 and so on. Here is our success, because we were below 80%, we reached 87% in four years, and this growth would continue to grow, grow and get closer to the average. But this crisis, I'm afraid we don't know how to act and we're going back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The list of discussers experienced changes. The word has Vojko Starović, to prepare Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, we're discussing UTD, we're not discussing this subject when I think we don't even know what it is. I'd say it's helicopter money to save the economy rather than UTD. Universal basic income. As we know, Europe has a very attractive social image, because after the cataract of World War II, there have been some integrations, agreements and social democratic parties have introduced these social rights. And we don't really want to give up these social rights. These many social transfers and protections, we want to protect vulnerable groups such as the unemployed, children, poor families. I think it is the duty of every state, state, government to fight poverty, because if 20, 30% of children live in poverty, that means that they develop abnormally, they don't have enough food, they don't have enough food, they don't have the social or the brain that are the biggest energy consumers. Because they don't have enough food. We use this to undermine the foundations of capable people. Therefore, ensuring these minimum possibilities for survival and development of an individual regardless of his or her situation has become part of fundamental human rights. It's become kind of self-inflicted. But in Europe, economic and social expansion has begun to differentiate, there is no, there is no social cohesion here. It has partially dismantled Europe’s neoliberalism, this social state, because competition law in fact prohibits state aid, in a wide range of areas. And the European budget with that percentage is absolutely too small for any common social policy. So, somewhere I would say, again I say, UTD is a solution for the social state, and we are a social state, already in Article 2 clearly states. However, the social state has the following problems: on the one hand, social rights, transfers are on the increase, but you know that we have 38 transfers, no one knows about it anymore when I asked the secretary of state and the minister of the former, no one hoped to tell where it was. So it gets very complicated, it gets opaque, and it's being handled administratively. Secondly, because we know, the economy is so set up that it is from poor villages to richer ones. Those who have more capital, have greater social power, have greater economic power, have greater power on the market, and this is always from the poorer, from the smaller firm to the larger village, and this is, and thus also the traps of poverty spread. When our middle layer disappears, everywhere, it is not just a Slovenian feature, our poverty rate increases. On the third side, as Europe and as Slovenia, we are losing our tax battle. All these larger ones pay minimum taxes, I tell you, these small ones pay "ork" taxes, small companies also pay what, thirdly, such as larger multinationals, do not pay, minimum pay, I tell you. And because taxes have become a battle between competing countries, where companies will be established, and this reduces taxes and reduces postulates for the social state, a source of social welfare. So, the UTD is supposed to solve some of these problems, and that's why in recent years, ten years, they've been dealing with both left and right policies with the implementation of this UDD. So this is that every citizen gets the sum that makes it possible for him to survive. Every citizen. This is the basis of the UTD, without any restrictions, without any conditions, all the same and this is it. So it's the social rights of everyone, every citizen. [[Incomprehensible]] That's the basics. So, but the introduction of UTD also brings a bunch of financial and also ethical dilemmas. If the financial resources are public, which in this case is what is going on from the budget, then there is a huge reallocation. [[Incomprehensible]] We've already seen about 100 euros, which means, in these three months, 600 million. If we went to more normal survival, 200, 250 euros, this already means a great deal of reallocation at the annual level. Therefore, there is always a problem here how to finance this UTD at state level. So when we add both of these together, it's not that simple. So far, history has offered quite a solution, but none of them have somehow behaved and maintained themselves. In ancient years, a well-known economist, in whom all economists have also studied, has prophesied in his essay the economic perspective of our grandchildren that this will happen and that poverty will be eradicated. [[Incomprehensible]] In 1968, more than a thousand 200 American economists, I'm only talking to you because we're going to know what we're talking about on the UTD, suggested the introduction of some kind of UTD. So in 1968, even the notorious Friedman proposed this in 1962, with a more robust concept of some form of negative income. And now they want to bring him into California, Scotland, and you know that he was also played with this idea in Italy. So with regard to the social state, these transfers, etc., also Slovenia is concerned with similar problems, we are part of Europe, part of the world, so one reform is essentially wanted politically, but no matter now left, right. It has its foundations, it has its advocates, it has its own from the top, but I say that it is, as I said in the beginning, a difficult ethical and financial issue. This case now, what we have before us, I said that we will support this proposal, but just to feel it, to see with what problems, this is one pilot project, and otherwise I have to say, it is not the concept of UTD. We can call him that, but that's not it. We need to be aware, and when we support it, we say, there is something that we give to everyone for three months, and we want to see what happens, but the purpose is completely different, it's not a social measure, it's not a social measure, it's a social measure, it's an economic acceleration, so I think it's a little bit wrong to call it, but I said let's think about it, if we're already borrowing 5 billion extra money, and let's use it for something like that, because now money is relatively cheap, we need to know that. Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The applicant made a statement. Here you go, Mr. Patch.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u118	I must respond to the debate of my colleague Vojko Starovic. Of course it's not, it's not a UTD, or it's not an UTD. It's universal income and it's not helicopter money either, at least not in the classical sense of the word. In fact, a few people support helicopter money, and we all know that there has been considerable debate about when and how to distribute certain amounts of what is called helicopter money. Among other things, helicopter money supporters are also in the working group, which prepared all four PKPs and are also at the beginning, at least in March, then this quieted down a little, which was strongly advocated by this concept. Otherwise, I think it's a two-sword. The court’s sword is mainly because the helicopter’s money fundamentally changes the behaviour, motivation, and expectations that citizens then have from the country. You can't ignore that. Something fast can happen that someone will then say "why would you do it, because it's not necessary, it's all so simple, I get 1,000 euros", or at the time it was talked about the number even 1,500, but here is the purpose of another. Here we are talking about 100 euros a month, about the total cost of 400 million, not 600, but I allow the possibility that we have partially counted here and that it will be less, although I think it will be even more, to encourage the purchase of investment good, not consumer, basic life, I have already said this three times today. [[Incomprehensible]] Which is also not a social measure, although it has elements of social, social impact or before you, colleague Starović, let go in terms of how things are going in Europe, after social contributions we have been led in the European Union. Of all the countries, we're doing the most. Now the mood in the European Union has also been mentioned that 64% of people supported them in 2016 and that they did not support it in Switzerland. Yes, probably, but in 2016 we didn't think the situation would be the way it is today. If we carried out this survey in the European Union today, what is the opinion of the citizens of the Member States, we would get completely different results. But I'm saying, it's not about denying or denying certain statements, it's more about trying to find a solution. However, I absolutely agree, the proposal is not optimal, but to correct it, to improve it, and we can do it together through the debate. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. As the last debater, Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greeting, distinguished Madam Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues. We are now talking for two and a half hours about the proposal put forward by the List of Marjan Sarcas. Earlier in her opinion, Jerca Korčetova said that we are actually proposing four measures in the List of Marjan Šarcs. That's just the first one. The UTD, which is a quick, unilateral measure for the immediate rise in domestic production, others are subsidies for energy recovery, third is public state investment, which we know will happen anyway, but the question is only when it will happen, probably not immediately. and the fourth shift of EU funds to green local projects in municipalities. All of these three measures are long-term measures that are likely to take place over a period of time, depending, of course, on how fast the administration will be. And this action of ours is immediate. We are trying to give solutions and suggestions how and what now. And that's something that seems important to me. A short-term measure that would immediately encourage domestic consumption is a point - that people are not afraid. Because all the measures proposed by the government are fine, but some do not work at all. For example, if you remember PKP-2, we accepted it at the end of April, today after three months it is not working. That's why we suggested this, and that's why it would seem to us that I'm very naive, quite normal for everyone to support it. But no, you won't support it either. At the same time, we hear in the letter of Marjan Šarc that we have no suggestions on how we do not want to cooperate, how we do not know what we are destroying. All those who say this, of course you speak in coalitions, give a little thought before you say this, and remember the more than 300 amendments the opposition has tabled, remember today this short-term measure that we are proposing, remember all the good solutions that we have made in these four months. How many have you accepted? As my son says, zero, nente, mante. Or one or two, in short, nothing. Even when some coalition MPs voted in favour of our action, they got in the ears very quickly and they were not to say out loud. But okay, whatever. Today you have the opportunity, dear colleagues and colleagues, to correct what you have not seen so far. To take good action. Why? Yeah, because they're good for people. Because they will act immediately in the short term, because it will be good for all of us and for our country. There's no big philosophy in the back. I don't know what else you'd like here today. The proposal is based on these analyses submitted by experts, but we are now more experts than experts in the National Assembly, and I do not know, but the fact is that this short-term measure can take effect as soon as it is adopted. Simple as beans, we'd say in our former southern country. However, to return to consumer confidence, perhaps a little. It is evident that the crisis and the delay we have witnessed have led to a decrease in trust in people, and of course this low trust is the reason that people do not spend as much as they did before, do not buy things, unless of course they are very much needed, because they are afraid of what will happen tomorrow, even if they have a job at all. And they're scared if they have something to spend tomorrow, and that's why they prefer to save today. It's in every normal person's normal, that's how we act. And that, this loss of confidence quickly leads to a fall of sales. As a result, however, higher or later higher unemployment rates. At this point, we have a situation where the government has really frozen jobs, because we're just paying for this waiting for work and so on. But when these measures are over, read the autumn, what will happen then? Have we really achieved this goal that you have set yourself? So keep jobs and jobs. I'm not so sure anymore, I wish that what the government is saying is true, and that we will indeed keep these jobs, which we now artificially hold in a coma to say. But we'll see what happens in the fall. But if you ask me, I'm not some crazy expert, and we're not doing our best. That is why we must now take measures that will also work in the autumn. That's why this is our proposal. Now, the state of consumer confidence, as indicated by the Statistics Office in April of this year, has fallen dramatically. In April 2020, we have seen the biggest decline in consumer confidence since the SURS has also been measured by monthly surveys since 1996. Which, of course, is an obvious sign that the Coronavirus has a strong impact on the consumer mood. According to the previous month, its value fell by a total of 30 percentage points and by even 41% compared to April 2019. Do you have any idea what that intrusion is? Almost half. Yes, so it is essential that we take action now. That's why. And we don't need to be philosophical enough. Consumer confidence, as they state, is measured on the basis of four factors, and all of these four factors have deteriorated significantly this month and this decline of confidence is even more evident at the annual level. First of all, that's what they're measuring. Consumer expectations regarding the financial situation have deteriorated by 34% in the household. Secondly, consumer savings expectations by 11% and the unemployment and economic indicators in the country have worsened by even 59 percentage points. 59! There's no time. All the red lights are flashing in the car or in the country. All you have to do is listen to the opposition and hear it. It's a condition. It is clear that because of the coronaryism and the consequences that we are still waiting for, but also because of the measures that are too slow, which some do not work, which are not even achieving purpose, we are losing confidence in our bright future. Slovenians are becoming increasingly black-eyed, and we are fearfully looking forward to living, and this is definitely not the creative climate that we would like in the country. That then the measure is even more full, the Prime Minister of the Government, every day of a rigid one, which I believe he knows in advance that at least half of Slovenia will jump into the “louft”. Somebody explain to me why this is necessary. Why it is necessary for us to become divided into such fields within four months of this Government that it is not possible for us to agree on a matter at all, as Srebrenica is called, where there are no doubt so many and so many people killed. Why is that necessary? As far as I'm concerned, it's completely unnecessary, but it's probably a state of spirit and all the movies that happen in someone's head that I don't want to identify myself with. Now that we have decided in the List of Marjan Šarca to supplement this last adopted law, it is meant to improve the economic situation in the field of domestic production, to help the Government solve the consequences of the epidemic and, in the first place, to restore some will and confidence to people. People need confidence, people need a positive climate, and when they have that, they do a lot of things. But not everyone in fear is sitting at home waiting for what's gonna happen and what's gonna happen next. The economic crisis, which, of course, is accompanied by a high level of mistrust, is leading to a decline in consumption, which will then only deepen. By adopting this proposal, however, consumption will increase with the proposed stimulus and a psychological factor that fosters a lack of confidence will have a smaller impact. The real increase in uncertainty in people who have appeared in the last period will thus be calmed. And I am sure that the Government wants you, too, Madam Secretary of State, to calm down in the country, to return to some normal tracks and to live as we have lived before. Of course, that will never happen again, but at least to live roughly as we did before. I would like to say that we are not afraid in the fall and I would like to see you here in the first reading today to support this proposal, which, of course, we can improve by the end of adoption. Of course, if it's about helping people. Today, here, now for tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the Member was the last debater, it is likely that Srebrenica does not fall under this item of the agenda. We are now going to the general part of the debate in which a representative of the proposer gets the floor. Here you go, Mr. Igor Patchek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleague and colleague! Thank you very much for your comments on the debate. However, I must be honest that I expected perhaps a little more substantive debate, or I am glad that you have somehow identified yourself to the proposals that we have proposed in this Supplement and I am also pleased that I have not seen any significant contradictions to this. Of course, we have concerns, everyone has certain concerns. This idea, whether it's a universal basic income or a universal income, as we tell it, whether it's helicopter money, is absolutely in place. Because we need to separate the functions that we want to achieve or the purpose that we want to follow with a certain measure. And this differs from the first of all three elements. The financial structure has been exposed, twice. As I said, and as is the opinion of the fiscal world, we currently have 7.8 billion money in the state treasury. This money has increased from 4 billion to 7.8 in the last three months. This is an assessment by the Fiscal Council of 6 July 2020. The European money is available, the European Central Bank is offering us money, we know that there will be quite a few grants that we will be able to make use of for this purpose, and there will be other mechanisms that are already or will be available within the European Union. I am not just talking about bonds and what the European Central Bank's opinion on bonds is about whether they are purchased on the primary or secondary market, but it is very easy that certain money we will receive from the European Union will never have to be returned. And it would make very little sense that we don't use this money now that we need it most, and that this money is also lying in our state treasury. This is particularly true for the time when we are now, when certain measures need to be taken very quickly. We are all afraid in some way in the fall and I do not want to be afraid, but I hope that this effect of the epidemic or crisis that is being predicted will be eased and that, in fact, no matter what it is, we all hope that the crisis will take the form of a letter in, it now turns out that it will definitely not be, that it will probably be more in, and that a certain effect will be transferred to the fall and then we will probably be most sensitive due to these effects. And it is right that we think about it today, or I even think that we should think about it earlier. Certain packages are not successful, but I do not criticize this because I have already said: The government has been forced or, when taking measures to control the negative effects of Covid-19 only took these in a very short time and it is completely understandable, or logically, to anyone who has ever done or partly, then it is understandable that you are also making a mistake. I certainly understand that, but also with the assumption that the shortcomings or mistakes that we have made or have not corrected them, I speak in multitude, the first person in multitude, only then we acknowledge them and that we are ready to eliminate them together. And therefore, as I said in the introductory explanation, our proposal is an alternative solution. I am convinced that universal income, together with the universal basic supplement, is one of the important elements of the social market economy, especially when we are talking during the crisis we are currently in. The one we are facing today is probably the most eloquent example of what can happen to us, and three months ago, or four months ago, no one even hoped to think or thought that we could find ourselves in the situation we are in today. In the letter of Marjan Šarca, we believe that this is a step in the right direction, once again, I hope that you will support us Members and Members in this. The importance of such a measure seems particularly meaningful to us because, contrary to the classical market mechanisms we like to advocate, which retroactively unite the economy, this is essentially a planning mechanism that combines the components of the economy into an effective whole in the future or as I said in the introduction, but is “ex-ante”. Of course, it allows for the possibility, as I have already said, that the proposal to supplement the law is not optimal, but with your proposals it can be improved, of course we can do so, but today this amendment or this proposal needs to be supported. To all who support the proposal, we thank the LMŠ Group very much, but those who do not, we understand, perhaps we will understand someone who does not support it a little harder. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has remained, I ask whether you wish to discuss it further on the basis of Article 71? I can see that. Then I would just like to point out that if a representative of the proposalr, Mr Igor Peček, would like to discuss it, I also ask him to apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. He'll get the word in this case as the last. I'm releasing the application for debate. Please sign in. We have seven interviewees reported. Everyone's got five minutes. The first takes the floor, Mrs Mojca Škrynjar, and Mr Robert Polnar is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. The proposal for this appendix is an interesting proposal. It is, of course, a question, the problem of what we have heard, what the Secretary of State told us, how it would work. There is certainly a need for analysis to predict all this effect, as the move could also be dangerous if not well studied. It reminds me of the time when a meal was introduced for children or for students, free lunch. The resistance after the new government came, more left-handed, was great, if it was wrong for everyone to get lunch because they should get it, a subsidized lunch, because only those from socially weaker environments should receive this subsidy. My arguments against it were, of course, exactly the same as yours, even today, I think that if someone else gets enough money to pay for lunch to get a subsidy, then the rest of the money left to him can be directed towards buying something else, other goods and thus speeding up consumption and economy. So money is spinning, and this is an important foundation of today's economy. I hope that this time will come again when we decide together and say that a student's lunch or lunch is something that belongs to the program and is actually part of this basic supplement. The question of when will this time come, I hope that our treasury will recover quickly enough so that we can afford such a thing. In this basic supplement, which you are proposing, I'm essentially interested in whether we can afford it and what effect it will have, because there are no analyses, but one thing that bothers me a little bit is that, in fact, for every money, one should do something about it. That means we can't put something on our eyes, but there should be a service behind it. Just giving money seems to be a possibility of rejecting people’s work and creativity. It is right that no one suffers from poverty, but it is also right that everyone strives to earn money without giving money what comes. I am thinking for myself that maybe there are so many and so many people who are or might stay home because they lose their jobs, or maybe they have school-bound children. One of the parents who stays at home is actually working for the family, and this work is not really appreciated today. This is what we call a bad-looking housewife, because she's just a woman, and she could be a man. Also, this work, the home tutor, the caregiver of his own children is very important and the care of the family. If ever, if we ever thought about this direction, we would be in this particular part, in addition to those who care for home and family, because there is a service back here. While the basic supplement itself does not, in fact, have any working criteria. But work seems important to me. Interesting debate. We'll probably go back to her again if we don't decide today. [[sign for the end of the debate]] the version you're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Now that I have previously warned my colleague that she has been discussing the subject, let me also remind you that the dialic lunch is not a topic under this item, so let us all limit ourselves to the agenda in our debates at this time. Mr Polnar has the next word, Mr Nick Prebil is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u126	Thank you for saying so, Madam Vice President, Madam Members, Madam Members. The basic characteristic of the marriage proposal is the introduction of universal income for a certain period of time. In this respect, it differs from the idea of universal basic income, which does not have a time limit and, on the basis of the basic idea, everyone has the right to it, without the importance of either working or not working, whether he has income or has no income. The most radical option assumes that every citizen has the right to financial support, which provides him with a basic existence. But the variations are out of numbers. Despite the popularity gained by the idea of universal basic income among economists, entrepreneurs and managers as an alternative to traditional social policy, a number of doubts remain. The radical transformation of the social system since the creation of industrial work, which is cumbersome with the confrontation between employers and employees, would be the biggest financial gambling move of our time. That could be sweet poison. But let's get back to our current case. Increasing the aggregate demand for households is the thesis that fascinated the applicants. Universal income would in any way have a positive, short-term impact on growth, unlike, for example, long-term investment in growth. But much more than a few times a month's allowance, the long-term resolution of recession would have an impact on higher wages, which are the most stable source of increasing consumption, but this is another topic. We are beginning to believe that the state budget has no limits, which is not true, and this needs to be re-emphasized. Today, the state budget has 2.3 billion euros in deficits. The revenue is 4.4 billion and the expenditure is 6.7 billion. On the revenue side, the most pronounced deficits in value added tax and corporate income tax are where the realisation at mid-July is only 35 %, and it is necessary to say that the corporate income tax is also exempt from corporate income tax payments, such as the Government's measures to strengthen the economic situation. In the area of expenditure, the most pronounced increase in the expenditure of subsidies is. The subsidies for the whole of this year were 522 million and so far 945 million have been realized, which means we are already at 180% of this kind of expenditure in mid-July. However, there is a significant difference between the population and the economy's deposits. We've got 30 days. 6. 21 billion and 122 million deposits of households, which is more than €757 million more than six months ago. And we have 7 billion and 339 million Euros of the economy, which is more than half a year ago for 581 million Euros. The increase in the role of businesses and households is a logical consequence of lower spending in the epidemic, resulting from the country's payments to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic and so on. What is detectable by this proposal is, ladies and gentlemen, the conflict - the conflict between the debt of the state budget and the deposit of the population. According to domestically speaking, the rich population and, in the perspective of extremes, the indebted and impoverished country. Of course, we cannot afford such collisions in the long run. Knowledge of economic matters is indispensable and political and long-term sustainability is also needed. The issue of population demand in crisis situations is much more a domain of psychology than of economics, and here, ladies and gentlemen, the role of national policy is inexcusable. We need to change the standard political scene in Slovenia, which is condescending, demagogic, anti-rational and intertwined with populist effects. Can we change that by our own actions – this is my key question of today's debate. When we make a decision about it, we should be able to visualize that famous ancient Gogolian motto: It is not the mirror’s fault if it shows an ugly image. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Nik Prebil has the following word, and Mr Starovic is preparing himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Yes, the proposal presented in the List of Marjan Sarcas for the introduction of universal income is, in my opinion, quite appropriate. Finally, the COVID-19 health crisis, with almost two months of closure, has clearly demonstrated how strong such health-care activities and measures can have an impact and in particular have a negative impact on economic ties and activities, and not least how they affect the consumer. And government, like everyone else, of course, has dealt with these things better on one side, on the other side worse. Above all, something is important — that there is something in those laws or laws that are now in force. The CAP legislation, which covers certain categories of the population and the economy, has, of course, omitted certain categories. And just because these things have been released, we are experiencing some sort of cramp. And also this appreciation of how it prolongs waiting for work, yes, of course it helps businesses, but again I warn you, it is a thing that only prolongs a period going towards the end, it is almost so. A fake coma. Because when this measure is over and there is still no demand for a certain company or economic operator, it will be forced to forgive, regardless of the fact that it has now retained these jobs by this measure. And just such a measure as the introduction of universal income is a measure that promotes consumption and, of course, increases demand. Let me remind you of something that I have said several times, what actually causes the recession and some kind of financial crisis. The fact that people in fear or panic about losing their jobs, losing their income, all of a sudden everything revolves around money, start saving money, investing it in accounts, and finally wearing socks under the bed. Consumption is dwindling, money is getting worse and the state is sinking more and more into recession, and, finally, there is less revenue in the state budget. And this thing is getting deeper than it is, it's getting harder to get out of it, and it's getting deeper and deeper and deeper and deeper and deeper. And I think we need to stop this, and we can only prevent this from happening in such a way that people spend as they did before the crisis. To start the money turning around and get to the green branch. This part, which we are talking about today, about universal income, is basically no financial support, nor is there any social support, is actually a short-term measure that will stimulate consumption. Of course, in some ways it affects the financial status of people, some social status of people. But that's what a security guard is all about. You can't save her, but you can use her. So, boost consumption, boost demand. And we all know very well how these measures must be followed up, and the Government is responsible for these measures. And these follow-up measures, as well as those that we have proposed not least, which we then continue to pursue, are that the first step, will encourage further employment, the development of economic activities with added value and so on and so on. And yes, what Comrade Polnar said, of course, wages are something, but it is also something, something that will stimulate consumption and something that the economy or the level that we had before the crisis can bring back to that level. Once again, the government will be responsible for all the measures that will follow, for it is the Government that is investing in the National Assembly, which obviously has more than enough votes that it is not ready to give for good and meaningful action, and it is the Government that will respond to this Assembly and, above all, it is the Government that will be responsible at the end of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Starović has the next word, Mr Jože Lenart is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u130	Yes, thank you, Chairman for your word. I'd like to point it out against you. The proposal, as it is and we call it universal income, not universal basic income, is attractive, easy to withdraw, has its advantages. Such solutions will have to strive for such solutions. But I'll say it again, and I was a little fixed earlier, and now I'm taking advantage of the opportunity. But my simple calculation is, if we look at it, the census is that there are 2 million and 85,000 of us. If we add two zeros, it brings 208 million a month, times three, that's it, so I say, the question of abstinence, I don't know where I'm going. Now for the second one. When we're talking about universal. We in the SAB have a programme to try to make universal basic income, which we also proposed, but it didn't go through, for young people. For children and young people to go through. Then we don't need any transfers for lunches or for the third or children's supplements, you need to know that it doesn't cost as much as it would have looked at the first account, if that meant, at first sight, but all the other things just didn't work out. One way these children can get this and have a normal diet is to say, normal education, and if we have public health, public education that works well, then we know that our future is solved with children who will not suffer a shortage and who will be able to grow up. That is why this idea is and I welcome all those who have debated that we will continue this debate. Again, I like this measure, even if it is helicopter money, as I call it, I see it, but it is much easier than it was when our comments on these intervention laws are not against the crowns of this crisis that we have complicated. People can't draw money, they can't pull it, they can't, because we're complicated, it's not robust and it's simple. In Austria, this is much easier to solve, and in Germany, we have to complicate it. Instead of making things easier in the beginning, but then we had control of where it was going and how far it was, we simply squeezed it. That's why I like this proposal, I'm gonna say I like it, and I've already said I'll back it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart has the next word. But get ready, Mr. Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Look, one more time. Universal income for a certain period is not a cost. We can't take him like that. However, if there is a multiple effect that increases consumption, it increases the production of the service and thus also increases the normal way of paying the tax into all cash registers. This is something other than other measures that are intended only for a temporary existence, let's say for employees where it's not created there, but only being saved by more socialism. It's something else. I cannot help but feel that this Government does not act effectively, that it is delaying and paying more attention to other areas, other purposes not intended for the economy. Simply when we look at what other countries are doing by the end of March, in the second half of March, I will say with all my strength that they have filled the economy with liquidity injections and started, that is to say, and multiples of the amount per capita. That's the real comparison. We wonder why they were doing this, why they were so quick. I tell you, they're going to get ahead of the competition, they're going to have an even greater advantage over us. This is the effect, this is the goal of these developed countries. Or do we really want to be just cooperatives, to be dependent on the charity of these more developed countries, which are already making quite a lot of use of us today and it is more developed to avoid talking about the trade that we are going to deal with tomorrow. Yes, virtually all trade is already in foreign hands. Is that what we really want? So the GDP growth or the decline of this GDP and, of course, the increase in indebtedness are the two criteria where I told the Secretary of State earlier that I would follow you all the time, or that I would follow us together, because that is the goal that we have to pursue. Everything else doesn't seem to be going the right way today. I don't know, that's how it's all in some fog, but I've made it clear to you that if we compare this to other countries that know what they're doing, I'm worried about what we're doing here. But we're in debt to the stock. Why, who is it meant to be? We'll probably see about that in the next few months. Look, these are dangerous scissors. This is said on one side of the decline in GDP, and on the other hand the increase in debt, which can bring us down to be rescued by craftsmen if we do not know how to act today. And this measure, universal income for a given time, is such a short-term scale that we wanted to accelerate something. See, after the 2008 crisis, we did not know how to act, and during this period we fell the deepest in the whole, among all the countries in Europe. Only after 2014 was this growth when we recovered from growth. Why can't we do something about it? I don't know, but because of the different interests we have. The LMŠ has made a very professional proposal to this end, which gives a good short-term effect. To curb the fall of GDP. When we reach this target of the average of the European Union we have set ourselves, in the 13th government, we have set ourselves this measure to reach the average of Europe's GDP within two, three years, which is what makes our well-being even the average wage, and this growth has been very good. Three, four, five percent a year. Germany reached only around 1%. Unfortunately, that's gone now, we're in a different situation, but I'm afraid we're gonna lose this town like I said, and so once again, let's listen and not so ignorant. [[sign for the end of the debate]] treat the proposals made by the opposition today in our case LMŠ. Even the Left has somehow distanced itself from this proposal, which is very surprising to us. I say that we do not know how to think professionally, because this proposal is once again not political, but it is very professional and we have worked with experts, not only with the locals, but also with strangers, and this is what we want this proposal to be accepted because it is not bad, because remember, I will keep telling you that if the results are not the same as they should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Boris Doblekar has the floor, then as the last Mr Igor Peček. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Representative of the Government! After all, I did not intend to engage in the debate, nor am I a member of this committee, who is dealing with this, but I have listened to the debate. Most of you spoke to LMSH Members. Now, if you've listened very well to Mr Polnar's Member of Parliament, one would say in some way in a parable that, in his performance on facts, data, data that are currently in the financial field, the president of the Committee on Finance also knows that this soapy sweet bubble you're offering has broken. [[Incomprehensible]] Here you spoke, of course, from Srebrenica to the tweets of the Prime Minister, which does not belong in this package at all, but it is probably very welcome to talk about it as well. I would just say that there was quite a debate, a red thread, the emphasis is that our Government, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the new composition, after you, you did not want to rule, when you said that you were not interested in ruling in Slovenia and when this Government formed, you said that you were late with measures, etc. I wouldn't agree she was late. All the people already know, except for one handful, that the government is not late, that the government is working to prepare good measures. So once again, you had the government, you threw the rifle into the corn, you jumped into the empty pools, and so on, it's all your fault. Look, I wouldn't put it that way, but I'm afraid I have to, because if you didn't want to rule now you'd like to rule, and some of the measures are being taken after the government has prepared four big packages in three good months, and that's with great value, you've been right against every measure, and now after all the summer months, you'd have a measure of your own, so on, I'd say, like one candy. So we had, we made packages, the government prepared, the parliament, the coalition, most of them confirmed. Packages with much more help, not a hundred euros per person, much more assistance, those urgently needed assistance, and this was not only aid just like that, but also some categories, but most aid to the economy and workers. So you didn't support these proposals. Your LMŠ party did not want to support these proposals. You have had a lot of comments, but I don't know why you would now expect anyone to support this proposal of 100 euros per person. You were offered a hand in cooperation. We could participate in the government coalition, make good proposals, and this proposal might come across good ears, but it could also be included. I don't know why post-festums, given that you didn't support the measures before, the government's proposals. The EU money you say is bad or we will get enough money from Europe. Of course we'll get him. This government is trying to get as much as possible, the last one knows what the pump was like. So the new government will negotiate safely with enough money, not for fear, not for fear. The epidemic is not over, the money will be needed by the state or government, the people will still need it, so it is not just to throw it around right now. He's gonna need some more. You would give 100 euros to directors with huge salaries. Why? I don't understand. Why would they give the directors 100 euros in wages, people, directors, Jankovic, Ceferin, who I think has about a million 600 a year, if I remember correctly from the data, would give a hundred euros to spend more. Totally illogical, at least it seems to me that I don't know which of these directors will spend more and you will if the country doesn't give him 100 euros more. I don't know, I don't drink water, really, I have to say. Look, I'm totally realistic about giving some directors and some millionaires in Slovenia 100 euros to spend more on the economy, etc., I really don't believe that. More than you give [[sign for the end of the debate]] In order to give money to these rich people, it seems to me that this is a big mockery for pensioners who have minimum wages, but I think we should focus more on it, as our Government, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in this coalition of all the smart parties who are excellent at working together and creating a great government for all measures. So, it's a laugh to give money to millionaires and a laugh to pensioners and minimum wage workers. [[sign for the end of the debate]] I'm just gonna put it this way. I don't think it's going to work out. It's not even hygienic. Why would we give, I don't know, to some people who already have millions, even 100 euros, what kind of action is this, I don't understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u135	Thank you very much. And it's Mr. Igor Peck's turn as the last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, this was really interesting in the end. I could have guessed that in the previous part, when I actually thanked myself for the relatively good and concrete discussions, this was, in fact, a surprise in some way, Mr Doblekar. So now I withdraw what I said before, there were no flat-rate statements because they were. I'll give you an answer. Now, if you don't understand. The basic principle of universal income is divided into three objectives that we want to achieve. Improving the economic situation by increasing consumption, domestic consumption. The second is to mitigate the fall of gross domestic product. These are the two key ones we're following. And the third is the so-called solidarity measure or solidarity effect, which also prevents us from going to a certain extent of social distress. But I've told you a number of times, the U.D. is not an UTD, and that's not a social adjustment. And now, because of you, Comrade Doblekar, I must say again. It is about raising consumption and increasing trust. By saying that we should think a little bit more about who we give money to, I am absolutely sure that so-called rich people will spend more because of these 100 euros, someone who goes to spend, I will not say spend, this voucher, will also spend or spend with this solidarity effect, which is even better than the value of this voucher. And this is not a mockery, including the sheepmen, tourist vouchers were not a mockery, and Mr. Cheferin also got it if he only had a registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. But I don't like this way of discussing, because we prefer not to be obvious, what we didn't have in the LMŠ, but we did have some comments on how the PKPs work perfectly, and we know that the guarantee scheme today is nothing, after three months. In Germany, it started to implement as liquidity money to companies 27. Three, we're in July today. That too little analysis has been done, I agree, ma'am, when you said so we have also introduced a three-month pilot period on which we could measure the effects, because there is very little analysis outside our country. However, we have done, at least, these multiple effects and the financial structure that we have done, on the basis of two well-known analyses, one is very empirical, which has lasted a very long time, I think almost 40 years, in the United States of America, where the universal basic income has been since 1951, and the other has been made as a fluke or estimation of four German economists, among them two prominent professors of economics, one from Frankfurt and one from Bonn. You can find this study online. The higher wages will certainly be more effective in improving the economic situation, but at this point we are where we are, and national policy must also work by reducing the psychological impact of the uncertainty that Covid brings. And this is very important, not only for the functioning of the economy, but also for the functioning of society as a whole. I would like to say again: I, of course, allow the possibility or it is entirely fair to say that this proposal to supplement the law is not optimal. But the point is to make it better with joint suggestions, so that we can do so, and it needs to be confirmed in this first reading. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we believe that this is a step in the right direction. And once again, I thank all those who will vote in favour. I thank everyone for the opinions and arguments you have put forward in the debates. I am convinced that if the next reading occurs, this proposal or this novel can only be improved. Thank you very much again, everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide after the vote has been suspended. Is there anything you wanted, Mr. Reich? The debate is closed, I'm sorry. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 19th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16 and 35 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 16.02.) (The sitting resumed at 16.35)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u138	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, which will be voted on in the following order, paragraphs 7, 13 and 1. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda – first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Intervention Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: “Proposal of a law on amendments to the Law on Intervention Measures for the Mitigation and Elimination of the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic is appropriate for further consideration.” One minute, technical trouble. We're moving on. My colleague Patch, an explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much, distinguished President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and colleague! Dear Minister, representatives of the government! Of course, in the LMŠ Group, we will vote in favour of the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. We also allow the possibility that the proposal to supplement the law is not optimal. We are convinced that it can only be improved with the community. [[Incomprehensible]] We can do this in another reading, of course, if we support him here today. Let me say again what I also said during the debate. Universal income is not a classic universal basic supplement, nor is it a classic helicopter money. Whether the multiplier effect is realistically assessed, as stated in the Government's opinion, can also be subject to discussion, effects, introductions can be assessed when the measure is implemented. We have done it on the basis of certain economic analyses, which in our view are credible and credible, and in fact the proposal in practice in the form we propose can only be assessed after a certain period of time. The main purpose of universal income is to improve the economic situation, slow down the decline or fall of gross domestic product, and the third is to strengthen the principle of solidarity and prevent social distress. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we believe that this is a step in the right direction. It is an alternative and complementary to existing measures. We can only hope that you will support honourable Members and honourable Members of this proposal by supporting the amendment of the law, which we will only be able to improve together in the next reading with your proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 52. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 52.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of two members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding d.d. The proposal for the appointment of two members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. Would he like a representative of the government to explain the proposal further? Mr. Minister Mag. Andrei Shircelj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The proposal for the appointment of two members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding is based on the procedure carried out under Article 40 of the Slovenian State Holding Act. In view of the expiry of the mandate of the two members of the SDH Supervisory Board on 10 April this year, I adopted a decision on the appointment and tasks of the expert commission to prepare a proposal for members of the SDH Supervisory Board. The expert committee issued an open public call on the basis of which it was unable to submit a sufficient number of relevant candidates to me, and on 20 May the expert commission issued an open public call for additional candidates. In total, 39 candidates applied for both public calls, of which the basic conditions were not met 18. The remaining 21 candidates were assessed by the expert committee unanimously in accordance with the guidelines for the work of the expert commission. At least a quarter of the possible points from the professional profile were received by 11 candidates, whom the expert commission invited to talk to. Two more candidates were expelled after the talks, as it was further established that they did not meet the conditions. After interviewing and checking with his current employer, another candidate withdrew his candidacy. On the basis of personal discussions with the remaining eight candidates, the expert committee adopted unanimous evaluations for each section of the professional profile and prepared a proposal for six candidates for the Minister of Finance based on the number of points obtained. In accordance with Article 39(4) of the SDH Act, the Ministry of Finance has carefully examined the proposal of the expert commission and decided to propose to the government two candidates from the proposal of the expert commission, Mr God Emeršić and Mr Ivan Simić. In accordance with the conclusions of the expert commission, the two candidates proposed fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 39 of the SDH Act. In addition, the proposal of the Ministry of Finance ensures compliance with Article 39(3) of the SDH Act as the proposed candidates adequately complement the expertise and competences of the current members of the SDH Supervisory Board, as can be seen from their CVs. The District Court in Ljubljana has also been accompanied by confirmations that no criminal sanction has been brought against the candidate or that a conviction and criminal record have been issued against the applicant. The government approved the proposal of the Ministry of Finance and proposed to the National Assembly that Božo Emeršič and Ivan Simič be appointed to the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding for a term of five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The proposal was treated as a parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Does the Vice-President of the Commission, Comrade Ljubo Žnidar, wish to present the Commission's report? Comrade Ljubo Žnidar, I suggest you step forward for the pay phone. I'm sorry I didn't tell the minister, but I didn't want to fall in love with him. This is followed by the views of the groups of Members. I suggest you step forward. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u144	For the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u145	The Honorable President. At its 19th emergency meeting this morning, the Commission considered the proposal to appoint two members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding d.d. to the National Assembly 10. 7. tabled by the Government. The mother’s working body was selected or confirmed by a large majority of two new members, Mag. God Emerschich and Mag. Mr Ivan Simič is proposing to the National Assembly to confirm and accept them for the next five years' term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the representatives of the Group? First, my colleague Žibert, Zabret from LMŠ, and if you step for a pay phone. Get ready, colleague Bojana Muršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u147	Dear, lovely greetings to the representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At this morning's election committee meeting, we have asked the Minister of Finance some really simple questions, to which we have not received any concrete answers. Article 39 of the SDH Act, which speaks clearly of the composition of the SDH Supervisory Board, provides that a member of the SDH Supervisory Board must, inter alia, meet the following criterion: "It must be distinguished by personal integrity and business ethics". For one of the two candidates confirmed by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance as competent and recorded that they also met the requirements of personal integrity, it seems the other way around. Ivan Simič is a person who wants to introduce tax amnesty, a person who thinks about legalizing the money that individuals have come to in an illegal way. Otherwise, he himself says that it is more important than that this money should come into the budget, but it is very difficult for us to understand this as meeting the requirements of business ethics. When the so-called Paradise documents were disclosed by the Officer Delo, we were able to read, inter alia, that he represented a record between tax debtors in tax proceedings. In the Republic of Slovenia, a person owes more than 20 million euros in taxes. Furthermore, the Administrative Court granted the Financial Administration, by way of a legal judgment years ago, to Mr Simic, as former director, the apparent business ownership of companies in Cyprus and the British Virgin Islands, with which he wished to reduce his tax liability. This does not exactly indicate a serious case of personal integrity. Dear Government, Mr Simic is now expected to entrust Slovenia with the supervision of 11 billion state assets by your choice. In LMŠ we are against the legalisation of illegally or unjustifiably acquired money, whether it from weapons or masks or anything else. We are against tax havens and against naming people who do not give rise to trust as key positions. Since the National Assembly gives its consent to the Government's entire proposal and we cannot change it, we will, of course, vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you very much. There's a colleague of mine who's got the word. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. President, for your words, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen! The appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, which, on behalf of the State, operates with more than 10 billion assets of the State, is a great responsibility of the National Assembly to appoint competent persons to these places. The Ministry of Finance carried out pre-candidate procedures, and the government decided at the correspondence meeting to propose to the National Assembly two positions of supervisors of SDH candidate Bož Emeršić and Ivan Simić. Each candidate must meet the legal conditions for appointment, including the condition that it is characterized by personal integrity and business ethics. At this morning's plenary session of the electoral commission, Parliamentary colleague Andreja Zabret raised several questions about personal integrity and the business ethics of one of the proposed candidates. In fact, the Minister of Finance did not give any real answer to the findings. All he said was that the applicant was not in any criminal or other formal procedure and that he had submitted an appropriate certificate of non-penalty. But the fact is, business ethics and the issue of integrity do not necessarily require prosecution, so the issues raised remain open and are not a good passenger for appointment to such a responsible function. For all those who have some historical memory, it is appropriate to warn or expose some of the behaviour of the opposition SDS members five years ago when they severely discredited the individual candidates for the SDH Supervisory Board proposed by the then government in the process of appointing the members of the Supervisory Board. The Social Democrats will not discredit any candidate, but we would like to remind you of some of the issues that were so highly controversial for the opposition at the time, and after five years they obviously turned the board completely. For example, five years ago, it was disputed for Ambassador Pogačnik that the opposition did not have its representative on the SDH supervisory council. Today he didn't hear from his mouth that it was a problem. In 2015, it was problematic for Mr Logar to have a longer and deeper substantive debate on such an important issue as the future of the 12 billion Slovenian assets. Well, in his capacity as Minister, he clearly understood the in-depth substantive debate as a confirmation of candidates for SDH supervisory board members at the government's correspondence meeting. Whether it is ridicule or cynicism, everyone can answer. Last but not least, five years ago, Member Breznik was concerned about whether we really cannot find more competent candidates in Slovenia, as well as starting in strong companies abroad, such as Siemens, Volkswagen, where supervisors are really famous names. Today, let us ask ourselves whether the proposed candidates are such names that would meet the Member's criteria five years ago. Today, no one says anything about this on the right side of the hall, but it is appropriate to draw attention to these things and to whom we also place a mirror, how he acted and thought in 2015 and how he is doing today. Social Democrats will not support the proposal to appoint this proposed candidate as SDH supervisor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We're moving on to the debate. Anybody want to talk? My friend Winning Jelinčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We will support both candidates and talk about some personal integrity, but respectable gentlemen, we also have the President of the Government, Mr Carrar, who spoke about personal integrity, and we know where it all came from. I think that even when it comes to business ethics, it is important to realize that when someone was defending someone, it is clear that because of business ethics he represented the interests of the party and this is the only right thing to do. It's just proof that a man knows business ethics. I also think that knowledge of tax havens and the functioning of tax havens is a plus for the SDH supervisory council, because knowing this matter only helps to prevent someone from cheating and drawing money into tax havens. I think this is primarily about the expertise needed to take care of state finances and therefore there is no question here. We'll both support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Also a colleague of Horvath's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We'll support both candidates. However, I would expect a little more correctness from my colleagues and, of course, colleagues. It should be made clear that in the Simič case, the Supreme Court ruled that it was not a bogus legal transaction, which was written by a journalist who then remained for a lie without a job. So we need to be very careful here when we discredit or discredit candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u154	Thank you. My colleague Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u155	Yes, look, colleague Muršičeva, look, you quoted me from a few months ago when we were in the opposition. So, God Emerschich, mag. God Emeršič, we trusted the Austrians to run the Grawe insurance company, was the president of the insurance management, so, this thesis that I was talking about when I was in the opposition, so the government is working now. Now for Ivan Simic, I don't think I need to explain what kind of expert he is. Even the state of Serbia has taken him. [[Laugh]] , you took him to lead them yet [[Laughing, knocking]] tax administration. So it's two big experts in the financial field and management, so I think they're good for controlling SDH, so much for me. That's why I'm going to support both of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u156	Colleague Mursic, the debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u157	No, procedurally. [[turn off microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u158	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u159	Yes, thank you very much, President, for your word. I'm going to answer, because this was not an explanation for the vote, it was a controversy with the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors and [[noise in the hall]] I suggest you warn your colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u160	We're still in the debate. We're not in the vote yet. Anybody else want to discuss this? Don't you? My friend Bandelli?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u161	Yes, thank you, president, president, I'm sorry. Now, I don't mind my colleague, I mean, I know him personally, Mr. Simic. [[?]] I know he's an expert in this area, but I also know why he went to this place now. Let's be honest, the ones who talk nonsense here. They were working pro bono and Lakhovnik and now in the end they got the award to get a good place, I mean just that's the reason this real, nothing else. Nothing at all, nothing else. The sink in Krka and he got here. But he was the head of the Furs, and we know why he had to go away, and that was one question. But I say again, he doesn't bother me any more than a person, because I think he's also probably going to be good, good in his position, as far as it's concerned, but don't say now that he's been chosen for meritocracy or I don't know who. He won the prize for helping. Now, he worked among the pro bono stickers, and that's why he's got this place now. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing the Master of God Emeršič and Master Ivan Simič as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d. d., for a period of five years. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 37. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 37.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for election to the judicial function of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Dr. Primož Gorkič to a judicial, judicial function at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was treated as a parent working body by the Mandate Election Commission, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which Dr. Primož Gorkič is elected as Judge of the Supreme Court of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 38. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to a judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Cyprus. The Council of Justice presented to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Helena Deisinger Tomovski as a judge at the District Court in the District Court of Cyprus. The proposal was treated as a parent working body by the Mandate Election Commission, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision, by which Helena Deisinger Tomovski is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in Koper. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Škofja Loka. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Ana Harp to the judicial office of the District Court of Justice at the District Court in Škofja Loka. Does Judge Dash Sikošek want to explain the proposal further? [[No, no, ……]] The proposal was treated as a parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Does Vice-President Ljubo Žnidar wish to present the Commission's report? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We're moving on to the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision which elects Ana Harp to serve in the judicial capacity of the District Court in the District Court in Škofja Loka. We're voting. The 85 Members present, for 51 to 1, note that the decision has been adopted. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the Radiotelevision Act, 7th indent. The draft law was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, the member group of the List of Marjan Šarca, colleague Brana Golubović. Excuse me, Robert Pavlovich. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u163	Nice to meet you again. I will not talk about the candidate, his suitability or inappropriateness as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. I'll remind you again that the method of appointment itself is wrong. You know the position of the List of Marjan Šarc, that in this Chamber we should not even discuss and vote on who the saints should be. Politics should be exempted. But of course, it is probably utopian to expect this, because if I judge by your attempts on media law, for example, the Slovenian Press Agency Act, in which the government would have the right to appoint 4 out of 5 members of the Supervisory Board who could change the director as, I don't know, a shirt or a tie. The attack on the media is an attack on this government, it's obvious, to falsify information, to control it, to control its interpretation. Your goal is to financially undermine public RTV, which would lead to what? To capitulation, destruction and reinforcement of another media empire, modelled on a north-eastern neighbour who sows monogamy. The candidate with a name and surname is therefore of secondary importance and support to this candidate for undermining the basic postulate of democracy, undermining the expertise and independence of the media. Everyone in this country can tell their opinion, if it's different from yours, it's different. [[advertising from the hall]] And that defending freedom and independence of the media and a different opinion is what we will guarantee and defend in the letter of Marjan Sarca. That is why we are against because we see where this country is ruling with small or slightly larger steps.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups. [[turn off microphone]] [[microphone turned on]] We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council pursuant to Article 17, paragraph 7, of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, Dr Leon Cloud, for a period until the end of the terms of office of the members appointed by a decision appointing seven members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council pursuant to Article 17, paragraph 7, of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia of 28. 4. 2020. In doing so, I inform you that, under Article 17, paragraph 9, of the Radio Television Act, Slovenia will adopt a decision if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. Excuse me, explanation of voice. Explanation of the vote by colleague Tomić on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you. In Levica, of course, we will vote against, because the candidate is by no means a representative of any interested public or viewers, but in this way the ruling coalition enrolls both in the RTV supervisory council and in the programming world of its people. Therefore, in Levica we strongly oppose all attacks and attempts to dismantle public RTV through both recruitment and through changes in media legislation. And we'll do everything we can to stop it, everything that's in our power. That's why in this case, clearly, we're against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 35. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 35.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the Slovenian National Commission for UNESCO. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to discharge a member of Nina Maurovic on the Slovenian National Commission for UNESCO and Alenka Jeraj as a member. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 15. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, the members and alternates of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of alleged money laundering in NKBM d.d., the alleged illegal financing of the SDS political party and the alleged illegal financing of the SDS electoral campaign for the early election of Members to the 2018 National Assembly. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on composition and appointing a President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're going to break one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the responses of the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers of 14 July 2020, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. “The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mark Bandelli's question on the austerity measures that have been taken by students and students.” We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 46. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. “The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of the National Investigation Offices Victory by Jelinčič Plemínite”. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 73. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 73.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. “The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar to the question of mag. Andrej Reich in connection with the operation of the grey cloud«. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. “The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice, Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich to the question of Dusan Šiška on the amendment of the Law on Courts. We're voting. There are 82 Members present, for 11, for 56. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Mag. Mr Andrej Širclja asked Jože Lenart about the establishment of the Demographic Fund. We're voting. There are 86 Members present, for 39, for 46. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš in connection with the arrival of Uber in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 86 Members present, for 39, for 46. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health, Tomaž Gantar and Minister of Defence of Mags. Matthew Tonin's question on the letter of Jani Möderndorfer regarding helicopter emergency medical care. We're voting. There are 86 Members present for 33, up to 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boštjan Koritnik, to the question of mags. Bojane Muršič in connection with the drafting of electoral and referendum legislation. We're voting. There are 84 Members present, for 38, for 44. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Janez Cigler King and Minister for Finance, Mag. Andrej Širclja asked Maša Kociper's question on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which is in the legislative process. We're voting. There are 85 Members present, for 37, for 46. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandre Pivec, to the question of Mr Jani Ivanuše on the wine sector crisis. We're voting. There are 80 Members present, for 12, for 53. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to Robert Pavšić's question on the assessment of economic assistance during the Covid-19 epidemic. We're voting. There are 84 Members present, for 38, for 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovec to the question of the mission of Željk Cigler concerning the financing of the construction of the northern and southern part of the third development axis and the way in which huge amounts of material are deposited at the section between Velenje and Slovenj Gradec. We're voting. There are 86 Members present, for 40, for 45. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of mag. Andrej Reich in relation to the third development axis. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 44. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boštjan Koritnik, to the question of election law by Rudija Medved. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Finance Andrej Širclja to the question of Mr Andre Zabret on the alarming state of public finances. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of Mr Aljaž Kovacič, on the financing of sport. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 46. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of John Cigler King to the question of Bosniak Koražija on the issue of student work and the social situation of students after the Covid-19 epidemic. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of the Minister without a resource responsible for development and European cohesion policy, Zvonka Černač, to the question of Mr Preil's delegation concerning the drawing of funds from the European Cohesion Policy. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandre Pivec, to the question of Mr Jožet Lenart concerning the forest forest chain. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 44. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler King to the question of the post of Primož Siter regarding the prevention of family violence and assistance to victims during the second wave of the Covid-19 epidemic. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Lilliana Kozlovich, on the question of Maša Kociper on the attempt to influence politicians in the work of the prosecution, the police and the judiciary. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. The meeting was closed on 14 July 2020 at 5.20 p.m.
