ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 40th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I inform you that Dr. Janez Kocijancič, Member of the National Assembly, died in 1992-1996, and Mr Ivan Kebrič, Member of the National Assembly in 1996-2000 and 2000-2004. We'll honor their memory with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Felice Žiža by 1 p.m., Iva Dimic from 16.30 p.m. to 19 p.m., Franz Kramar and Primož Siter. I invited Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Počvalska and other representatives of the Government to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda for the 40th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 5 June 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. [[turn off the microphone]] 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 40th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. [[warning from the hall to the microphone turned off]] Thank you very much. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - INTERPLEMENTATION ON THE WORK AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MINISTRY FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNOLOGY OF CERTIFICATE HEALTH. The Interpellation was brought before the National Assembly by a group of 37 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. Before we go to the interpretation, I would like to remind you that the text of the interpretation and the Minister's response to the interpretation contain some personal data, so respect the protection of personal data in your deliberations. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we are also, as a state body, liable for damage that may result from our unlawful conduct. I give the text to the representative of the proposaler, Robert Pavšić, for an additional explanation of the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u2	Zdravko Restovalšek, Minister of Economic Development and Technology, Self-declared Lifesaver, hero, scale of wisdom and embodyment of abilities in critical weeks of March and April Messiah. This is how you try to present yourself in your response to my taste quite unsuccessful, because I understand your writing exclusively as a free file read with moral content. You're not listed above in our eyes, not yet. You may be merely an executor, but you are therefore no less responsible, responsible objectively and subjectively. Responsible for opaque, non-economic and for the selection of profitable procurement procedures and purchases of protective and medical equipment. Responsible objectively and subjectively for knowingly concealing facts, misleading the public, unethical, clientistic conduct. With all the suspicions, indications and exposed personal effects of the procedures for purchasing equipment by public means, you have written your own interpretation. Without a doubt, the Minister is at least politically responsible, or you are still otherwise responsible, will be identified by the competent authorities, which we want primarily unhindered work with all the personnel in charge. Let's see, more details. With your help, Mr Minister, and with the help of at least Matthew Tonin and Tomaž Gantar, the Government, of course, with the blessing of Janez Janša, has established an extremely opaque system. What is this impossibility? First of all, that the Government may be the sole enforcer for orders and purchases of equipment entrusted to a fully unsupervised Department of Trade Reserves. In the meantime, the public procurement experts worked from home or were on hold, why? You knew why that would suit you. You have collected offers on several e-mail addresses and thus blurred transparency. The government has set up an inter-resort group, you are your project group again blurring transparency. And then you moved them out more and more. It was a bit of a sign-up call. Elevated tones, instructions, drama, urgency, references to incorrect data, false numbers just as a matter of principle all deserving, no one responsible or God guilty. What's more than imprecise is this elaborate system of yours, your triangle, the defence ministry, the economic ministry, the institution. This system is something other than a planned hand-washing manoeuvre if it has to be followed. Other than impreciseness, the e-mails of the secretary of state, the spouses and someone else, or the phone calls of some of the politically declassified ones. Why did all this suit you? You already know why. We're just figuring it out. In view of the fact that you were able to conceal your actions and procedures in the protection of this imprudentness. Mr Minister, this lack of transparency has suited you, satisfied you, allowed it, of course, with the knowledge and confirmation of the President of the Government or his claim. You may have been merely an executioner, but you are no less responsible. Doesn't mean you didn't have an alternative. We're picking up some non-economic purchases for you. The first more than obvious inequities are intermediaries, you called them Slovenian suppliers and reasoned that the current legislation, which is not true, does not allow for a different path. What an appropriate excuse, ideal in fact, if the goal is to make a profit. You may have been merely an executor, but you've been following the business route, and you haven't stopped it. Let’s say overpayments of fans and completely inadequate or orders of excessive number of fans, because according to the actual number of appliances we needed much less. Second inconvenientity. A careful selection of intermediaries. So careful that almost half of the offers arrived at an untransparent set of e-mail addresses did not seem worth checking, you probably preferred to believe, or you had to believe in the various urgents of the relatives, husbands, politically-described individuals. Such conduct, Mr. Minister, is uneconomic, for you cannot know what kind of economics you have overlooked. Why you let this happen, you know. We simply conclude that some of the pre-selected entities had to earn. Third inconvenientity, sort of a mask, for example, from serviettes and tires. Is that how you buy it? Mr. Secretary, this inconvenientity did not bother you. You allowed it. Of course, by the knowledge and confirmation of the President of the Government or by his command. Maybe you were just an executor, so you're no less responsible and you don't think you had an alternative. And then, we report to you for the electorate, for the profitable business. I will help you with the case – March 18th, signing a contract for the purchase of 220 fans, the least suitable fans, the price per piece; EUR 36 000 400, supplier, of course Geneplanet. It was, as you were told, a business of SDS. Speaking of which, the European Commission issued an invitation to tender a day earlier to supply suitable fans at a price of three times lower. When something inappropriate is three times more expensive than something appropriate, it can only be a profitable business for the chosen one. Why you allowed or supported this, you know. We simply warn that it was about making money. In addition, 220 fans you ordered at this company, together there were more, of course, because the State Secretary in the cabinet of the President of the Government said: “As Minister Restoration said, we were on no fans and it was necessary to obtain as soon as possible.” End of story. So the Secretary of State is talking about no fans. She referred to you, Mr. Minister, and referred to Minister Gantar, and said again: “The Minister of Health has asked me to help as a future secretary of state.” And the numbers were changing. The Minister of Health spoke of 168, a government report on 5 May on exactly this number, and finally we find out that you have been misleading. 281 fans were in the middle of March. Of course, you were hiding the data because you had to excuse the purchase of 220 new appliances, inadequate, expensive, overpaid. But no, it's not that, is it, Mr. Minister, it's not economical, it's not imprudent, it's not for anyone or for more of you or for more of them, it's profitable. It's not saving lives for me, it's saving wallets. I'll get back to the ventilator. Mr Minister, this profitability for the electorate did not bother you, you allowed it, of course, with the knowledge and confirmation of the President of the Government or at his direction. You may have been merely an executor, but you are no less responsible and do not hold that you had no alternative. We're reading a cover-up. The already mentioned blinding with the number of fans is one such example. The other is linked to prepaids that were not there, but they were. It does not matter whether there were just a few of them, it is important that, because you, Mr Minister, were building your own, now we know, a false story about the country's tied hands, dealing with foreign companies or countries. That was your argument as to why the intermediaries were an emergency. That was your alibi for those more expensive purchases. On behalf of whom and for whom do I ask you? Maybe you were just an executor, you know that. We just assume that someone had to get a chance to earn money and this concealment of facts didn't bother you. You helped, perhaps as an executor, by the way, but that's why you're no less responsible and you don't think you had an alternative. We're reading your "clientistic" behavior. What can't you see, Mr. Secretary? Who believes that the e-mail from the Secretary of State in the cabinet of the Prime Minister has no weight? Are these the Prime Minister's tracks? Who believes that a call from the Director General of Police doesn't mean anything or your call with prepaid instructions and a job. Do you believe that doesn't mean anything? Then why did you call? Do you really believe that business with certain companies, which, just by chance, are, of course, proprietary, friendly or through acquaintances associated with more visible names, seems pure? For example, there was such a hurry, but for example, Acron had an enormous debt, otherwise short supply deadline, and Tosamin was inadequate, but Akron’s did not, unusually. In the name of the battle against the epidemic in a situation of fear created in manner without me, you have taken advantage of the flood, whom you all know, of uncertainty and fear of men. You manipulated, consciously or as an executor, perhaps by means of a pretense. You are responsible, however, but above all you do not convince us that you saved lives, perhaps wallets. We have been used to your verbal escape before explaining and your intrusion into the perceptions of empty warehouses, the lack of protective equipment, delayed reactions, a critical low number of fans, and you repeat this despite the realization that this is not true, because you can even understand, of course, run because from 13 March on, you deliberately adjusted your story and stole data and activities in order to get free hands, some sort of alibi for all your perhaps puppetous work, because you are saving lives, to save lives, to take away, to serve and to earn as much as you need. When the Minister calls on a signatory to a contract who is formally responsible for any transaction he confirms when he seeks to enter into a business with a specified undertaking, he has exceeded his powers. Saying that it's only the guy at the end of the chain can't wash you. When the Minister makes a conscious reference to information he knows to be untrue in order to promote specific transactions, then he blames other ministers, on communication noise or anything else, it does not wash him off. When the minister plays the most primal human instinct after survival and security and abuses him for his own interests or the interests of others, he is also guilty. Do you recognize yourself? It's the most amazing arrogance that comes from rolling guilt on the predecessors. Were you not among these predecessors personally? Have you not been familiar with all the activities, stocks and action plans? I'm sure you were. Although you haven't been attending government meetings in the last 14 days. Why, you know. And we can create a whole picture because you were so agreed with the new coalition. We can only congratulate you for your principle, for at least the last two weeks, you did not sit in two chairs at the same time, but only on one side, on the other side, when it was already planned. How this is reversed shows the guidance of former Prime Minister Marjan Šarc to the former Minister of Health, whom you are likely to refer to today. The key people of incoming governments have regularly been informed of measures against the spread of the epidemic. You have been informed of all steps and relevant facts to combat the spread of the disease, and you have also made a responsible and credible move by the former Government for political purposes, manipulated it, and tried to shift the responsibility of the new coalition into predecessors. Their actions may be investigated by others, not by us. We don't have any problems with that, but you obviously have a lot of problems. You point out that you do not want to avoid your responsibility, but that your work is judged through the prism of proven and evidential facts. I am pleased that you have such an opinion and will have to agree with us at the end of this meeting and as a result take responsibility for the act of a single reputation of office, even though it has been the driving of your actions, their instructions, their expectations, even though you have been aware of it, self-reflexion is what you lack. Let me be clear. The National Assembly and Interpellation are not a court to determine criminal responsibility, today we find your political responsibility, the responsibility for sending people home on hold who have been engaged for decades in the public procurement of specific medical equipment, people who know where and who to turn, what equipment is appropriate, what characteristics they must have, people who know where these characteristics can check what certificates they must contain and how much we need them. These people were in your way, in the way of your little shop. Distressed and opaque system of diversified powers and no responsibility, just merit. A system of carefully selected handfuls of certain companies, without reference to these types of transactions, which will show and pay their gratitude for the profits. All that we can predict and the consequences will be explored by others. It is clear that there are more involved in the entire story, all of which even lead to you, Mr. Minister, business has, even though you deny, your fingerprint. It won't be too much time to repeat a few crumbs. You knowingly lied about the number of fans. You don't want to reveal which company was chosen to do business with China, just why. You hide information about margins and commissions, if it's a business secret, you lose not only non-existent trucks, but also Boeing 777 with protective equipment. You cannot directly conclude interstate transactions because there is no legal basis for this. Then you can change your mind if you don't want to, because it's a risky payment of advances. Then you pay the advances anyway, because it saved lives and it didn't work out otherwise. You continue to defile the facts, but it's not that simple. Back to the fans. These were, as the Minister of Health revealed days ago, already in the middle of March 281. Well, that's not exactly how we decided to help you. We asked the hospitals how many fans they had on March 13th. If I only mention UKC Ljubljana, we find 18 fans in the government report, and the agency's response, they had - pay attention! - 243 fans. 243! There were more in one institution than the Government cited or deceived in its report, in which it operated with the number 168. And if we add fans to the remaining hospitals - we requested data under the Public Information Access Act - the number is 404, with some hospitals of 13 data not yet sent. 404 fans, March 13th! There are 168 in all of Slovenia, from 20 to 30 free, to nothing and then 168 later 281. Those were your statements so far. None of this is true! The worst Italian scenario would require them, according to government allegations, from 100 to 200. Apparently, we've had enough, proven. Minister, you've been deceiving. You kept repeating false information, lying. You've been knowingly concealing and preparing facts, and I wonder why. Why would anyone do something like that? Why would anyone offer fake numbers? More than that, why would a minister do something like that? Why would I talk about less fans on purpose? Why would he show worse statistics? Why would he draw a blacker picture? Why, Minister, what was your interest? Maybe you were just an executor, and you were doing it on purpose. Whose brand? With whose knowledge? Was that perhaps the Prime Minister of the Government? But then I wonder why this statistics were deliberately destroyed by the government, why did the government lie about numbers, why? I'm helping you - because she had to create a vision of an emergency. She took advantage of a difficult health situation, people's concerns. Why did she do it - simply to provide herself with an alibi for buying this large amount of fans. The excessive number of fans, ventilators who were inadequate and three times more expensive than the corresponding, of course, and here is the point - with an extremely high price difference. Why did you do that? You're someone -- I'm going to make a real deal. Did you have to? Were you ordered? You know that. And I know you helped someone make money. You gave someone money, not to anyone, but to Geneplanet, to SDS, as you yourself said. The drama you stopped was unnecessary. I am not saying that the number is sufficient, but I am saying that it does not justify any orders or overpayments to fans. Repeat, inadequate and expensive fans. There was no rush, unless the goal was to give someone a business with a deceptive margin visible from space. Marjorie for Geneplanet and for someone else. You said yourself it was an SDS business. According to our information, it was precisely because of this company and this business that you claimed that the law of direct operation of the country with a foreign, in which case Chinese companies are not allowed. Prepayments were allegedly too risky for the country, except for the SDS business, namely Geneplanet. What did you say? The bitec will have to get the deal, and you pay now. And the contract, together with the advance, without a guarantee at that time, 8 million euros was signed. Why all of these? I'll answer for you. Due to the difference between €36 000 400 and €8 000 for a single care provider. That is the difference in the price offered and paid according to our information. And where these around EUR 28 000 differed for all 220 fans, this difference would amount to a good EUR 6 million. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you. I would like to believe that this will be investigated by the competent authorities, which I really want primarily unhindered work with all the personnel in charge. You had an alternative, Minister, and you know it. This alternative was direct purchases from countries by foreign companies, confirmation of this, a sample case to be found on the seventh side of your response to interpolation. You state that the Ministry of Health purchased EUR 807 000 of protective equipment on 13 March. This proves not only that the previous Government purchased the protective equipment directly from foreign suppliers, but also that the legislation allowed the procurement system to operate and not least that the former Government was active in supplying the facilities with the necessary equipment. You yourself have thanked the previous Prime Minister, Mr Sharpe, for having confirmed what I have stated for a long time, and apparently no one wants to hear, the central procurement of protective equipment through the institution was introduced only by the decision of the current Government of 14. 3. At the second meeting of the Government, different institutions from individual hospitals, other health institutions to enterprises and institutions were responsible for this. This is also my answer to all the allegations and insinuations that I, as Minister of the former government, have left empty warehouses. Of course, this is not true and I hope that it is clear to everyone why there were no large quantities of protective equipment when the epidemic was declared in the warehouses of the Department of Stocks. Those are your words, Mr. Secretary. And this came very well for you, for the artificial creation of an emergency, disproportionate measures, suspicious purchase of everything that you suspected and unreasonably needed, you created a system that made it possible, as a soldier, to follow instructions uncritically from the top, and now the time has come when it will be necessary to point your finger at those who directed you or will take responsibility on your own. You had several alternatives, including a direct offer from the Chinese, which was submitted by the SAZU, and you were unresponsive and referred to internal obstacles. Your Secretary of State writes in response to the SAZU, stating: “The Department of Trade Reserves cannot conclude a contract with Chinese companies or cities and cannot pay for goods in advance, the Government’s instructions are very clear. The Department of Trade Reserves can only conclude business with companies from Slovenia.«, end of the list. You have set the rules of the game and the purchase and now you have to take responsibility. For 22 million euros, your Government could order 1 million FFP2 masks, 1 million FFP3 masks, a larger amount of other protective equipment and 500 predators already on 23 March. And yet, you did say no to this business. Moreover, I quote, while politely asking you that, if you are assessing that an importer of that passport cannot carry us out on the road as is the case with all the other tenderers, do not burden us with the said offer any more." - End of story. At the invitation of the SAZU, on 30 March this unreasonable decision, your Secretary of State replied once again. We have to reject your offer. The SAZU echo is very graphic. The answer you're sending after 13 days is ridiculous and inconclusive, and I can't transmit it either to Nanjing or to the Embassy of the People's Republic of China or to the Embassy of the People's Republic of China. I ask you again, and I urge you to send me an answer, which I will transmit to the Government of the Nanjing region and to the Embassy of the People's Republic of China. But it will be even better if you send the answer directly to yourself because it is essentially an offer at national level. The Nanjing region has 80 million inhabitants and generates about a thousand 300 billion dollars a year in action, and a representative of the People’s Republic of China is also involved. In anticipation of an appropriate official response that will not mock Slovenia, I welcome you very much. Signed Igor Emri, President of SR SAZU. That's how your business works out. Between established and respected academics and at the international level, why? Because someone had to make a living. On 18 March, you had a business already concluded with each other's business for another company. It is true, as Yuval Noah Harari wrote in Time magazine: “Humanity is killed, which against the pandemic of the crown of the virus is currently without integrated guidance, although with closer international cooperation it would need to be effectively tackled with this extremely contagious disease.” Your so-called integrated leadership has manifested itself in a kind of way in closer international cooperation. At least you are politically guilty and this guilt is borne objectively by the entire Government. You no longer have our trust, so we urge you to do at least one honorable act and step down on your own. The truth is also a verb, in your case at least for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u3	Thank you very much. You received the Minister for Economic Development and Technology's reply to the interpolation on 26 May 2020. I give the floor to Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Zdravek Počvalšku, to explain the written reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members, President of the Government, Minister, Ministers! Thank you for your word. Allow me to explain a few personal views and the content of my interpretation before starting the discussion in the context of the options given to me by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and thus to complete my reply to it. For those who have signed the proposal for interpolation, my words will probably be meaningless, but the Slovenian public deserves to hear my side of the story. Today I have the opportunity to say it in full and to redefine myself to all the perceptions of interpolation. First. There are three months behind us that we will never forget, and all of us together will never forget the fear and uncertainty that led us on the one hand and the enthusiasm and willpower on the other. We need to see both sides and try to understand it so that we can create an entire picture. For three months we have listened to the most simple facts, and before the Slovenian public, our fight for the epidemic has been completely devalued. So today I hope that the last time this image is set up is here. Slovenia is among the most successful countries when we are talking about bridging the root of the virus. The measures we have taken have been appropriate and effective. Our main objective in the fight against the epidemic was to prevent human casualties. Everyone we've experienced is sad and compassionate. We must admit, however, that we have avoided the tragic scenario that others, many countries, have experienced. This is also due to those who helped Slovenia organize and supply protective equipment. Thanks to them, the health system has maintained the pressure that other systems are important to the country can function smoothly. On a possible second wave, we can now prepare ourselves with a somewhat more maneuverable space to make decisions on how we want to deal with future crises. Slovenia is – I would like to emphasise – a country with a well-developed public service, and this was crucial in response to the epidemic. Public health, public education, civil protection, a strong network of NGOs, the military, the police, are the pillars of our humanity and our social power. I must not forget the role of the media that entered our homes when we were not allowed anywhere and helped the government communicate the most important measures and solutions. Our experience during the epidemic is therefore very good, positive and commendable. The problems that we had and did not have a few were largely due to objective facts, which we did not have a major impact on. One such problem was the provision of protective equipment, which is also the object or core of my interpretation. First of all, talking about how we fell long and fast on this exam, it's too much of an exaggeration not to say anything sharper. As many lies as I heard in the introduction today, I must say I haven't heard them in a long time. That we were in trouble because of the impoverished market for protective equipment, it's true. It is also true that due to major and continuous changes in the market for protective equipment, we have optimised the body's procurement chart. But what is really at stake in this? Anyone who followed the media in mid-March and April must remember stories from Germany, Belgium, Spain and the United Kingdom. These are all countries that have fallen into the trap of a fully crippled market with protective equipment. We also know how the trials of the European Union's common public procurements, which you discussed earlier, have ended, and none of that is true. Those who today accuse me of what I have not done have a large share of the credit for not knowing even the most basic facts about the acquisition of protective equipment. Let me illustrate. If I ask you now how much Slovenia has spent on purchasing protective equipment, I will hear on the left hand side of Parliament and on the middle 180 million, 200 million, maybe even the spare 120, and we know that the right number is today 62 million without VAT. In my response, I gave the number 42 million that was valid on the day I sent the answer. Today, this number is higher than our warehouse's stores of protective equipment. As long as we implement all the contracts, which is less likely, however, the final number will not exceed 80 million. Also, we do not want to know today that in mid-March only 168 fans were available in Slovenia, which were suitable for the treatment of the coronary virus. You may be talking about vets that you used to send invitations from the government to all institutions throughout Slovenia. All the others were, of course, more in the country, but working from these scandal numbers is ridiculous and irresponsible. And I congratulate you that you have convinced a large part of the Slovenian public of this, but it is not the case that Slovenia has spent a huge 200 million euros in protective equipment and its neighbours in Croatia only modest 50. Nor is it true that there were some 10 million in my pocket, in the pocket of the President of the Government, and not in the pockets of all the known names that were on the various documents. Of course, you had all the loving time to engage in construction work, while some of us were working, working for people, not for ourselves, helping the powerless, not your friends. For me, I know what I've been doing, what I haven't done, where are the red lines of my behavior, and in these last months, I haven't even changed those lines by a millimeter, but I'm sorry for the people who are being bullied by thieves, thugs, war profiteers. I'm sorry for those who wanted nothing but good for the country, but they got a media lynch without a chance. I'd be naive to think that businesses that worked with the state didn't make a profit. And if anyone thinks that a positive business is an excess and a discarded, perverted act, let him find a hero who wants to do his own business right now. I am not patronizing, but as a long-standing economist, I know what it means to save backward regions and what it means to fight for jobs. Today, I will follow these few hours, ten hours or more, closely all the performances, but my thoughts are always focused on where real life takes place, where real problems arise, and where these problems are also solved. If I spoke earlier about the main objective of Slovenia during the epidemic, this is the protection of human lives, I will now talk about another, equally important goal. That is, before Slovenia there is a time of great and comprehensive economic uncertainty. This will not be an easy time for anyone and it must be our concern that the full burden will not, as in 2008, fall on the shoulders of the weakest people. Ours and, if you want, my concern is how to survive, how to prevent the stagnation of development cycles in our best companies, how to keep the wind in the sails of our development, and how to return good jobs to people who are now out. Many such questions will require broad social and political consensus if we are to move forward. We're gonna have to talk more about the cameras, not just in front of them. And I fear that we are still far from this point today, because every crisis for Slovenian politics is in fact a time of great unconstructivity. But I also understand the tendency of the current opposition to use the public climate, which is far from peaceful, for some quantum leap to power. Your Honor! In my response to the interpolation, I have responded in detail to all the findings of its signatories; since you have all read it, I will only restore a few key facts in this place. First of all, I reject all three points under which the findings are collected at the expense of my work. Firstly, I reject the responsibility for not taking action and knowingly concealing the facts related to the procurement and purchase procedures that are presented to me in point 1. The process of collecting, reviewing the tenders received was carried out in several stages and at several levels. I myself have been informed of the proposals for contracts, which have been repeatedly examined by various bodies or working groups, and from the Interdepartmental to those under the auspices of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Such a procedure was precisely to avoid potential corruption attempts, and I did not and could not influence such a procedure. There was no list of favoured suppliers anywhere either. However, there were and still there were favoured providers of medical equipment. They kept trying to break this scheme so that they could get to the business through their established channels. No contract was imposed on anyone. All those responsible for the preparation and signature of contracts at the Department of Commerce have at any time had the opportunity to refuse the conclusion of contracts which would be harmful or inappropriate for the State; otherwise, it is a lie and manipulation. For all the contracts concluded, I have requested a public publication on the eProcurement portal within 48 hours of the conclusion of the contract - this is what detection means, not concealment of the business. I also requested this so that there would be no doubt about what we bought as a country and how much we paid for it. We have done our work in accordance with the legislation and powers I have. The Minister's responsibilities include warning of possible irregularities. These have proved and will certainly be proven in all the audits already under way, at least in the case of three companies, SL Marketing, OECD, N. D. Global. In all three cases, I have warned myself about the suspicions and in all three cases, my opinion was overlooked by the Department of Commerce Reserves. If it were true, as you claim by the Signatories of Interpellation, that I was conducting the entire procurement event, these three contracts would certainly not be and they have been tried by those who today declare Slovenia a corrupt paradise. The disqualification of companies with which the State has concluded contracts for the supply of equipment at the expense of their work is superficial and harmful. The company was not looking at the intestines if I put it that way, but it was assessed whether they were able to obtain equipment at the agreed time. Control over what we as a country have ordered, received and paid, I certainly have not carried out this function alone, but this function has been performed for these qualified institutions and businesses. I am responsibly saying that, within my powers, I have encouraged all those involved in the acquisition of protective equipment to pay the utmost attention to possible attempts to abuse our legislation or our trust. This was not easy to do, but I hope that we have thus prevented many attempts that could be attributed to them the nature of war profits. However, if, in spite of all and all control mechanisms, such a case has occurred or has occurred, I would like it to be properly investigated by the competent authorities. Another time. I reject the evidence that the public is being misled in justifying the legal basis for the procurement, purchase and supply of protective equipment, as set out in point 2. In view of the objectively unpredictable circumstances, the uncertainty of supply chains, interrupted transit routes and non-controllable supply risks, for careful handling of public money, Slovenia has consciously decided to purchase protective equipment under Article 46 of the Public Procurement Act. This Article allows for quick purchases and without prior publication of the contract, the State may only use it in objectively exceptional circumstances, which is undoubtedly an epidemic. This legal basis was a legitimate and well-founded decision by the State to make these procedures as transparent as possible as possible, and to publish all the information on the contracts concluded and their contents on the e-procurement portal. I don't know how we could be even more transparent, maybe by transferring our work on social networks, I'm a little ironic on purpose, because I just don't understand what the subscribers tell me. Next. I have already mentioned several reasons for buying protective equipment through suppliers in Slovenia, so we transferred the entire risk of purchases to them. The justification for such a decision is also demonstrated by the fact that the amount of all contracts concluded for the purchase of protective equipment is inadequately higher than the amount which Slovenia has so far earmarked for it. In other words, Slovenia has concluded more than €183 million contracts and has supplied and paid equipment for €62 million. No one probably wants Slovenia to pay the ordered goods in advance and today demand overpaid values for complicated judicial routes. The European Commission has sent guidance on the purchase of protective equipment to the Union Member States at a substantial late date. We only received them in early April, when we already carried out the vast majority of all the supplies made. Of course, we would benefit from the support of the European Commission and the Union, but when we were completely empty warehouses and without concrete support from the Union, we were forced to find out in our own way, as were all other Member States. Slovenia has entered into 59 contracts for the purchase of protective equipment, prepayments were made only in the case of five, with all adequately secured by bank guarantee or one with the company's assets. The four contracts involved fans that we wouldn't have without advance payments today. These were the cases of Geneplanet, LRM, Gorenje, Ram and Dobnik Trade. These contracts were concluded before 20 March, when the situation on the protection equipment market was most critical, the exception to the conduct was that the equipment of Slovenian health establishments with these apparatus was completely inadequate in the event of a more serious outbreak of the epidemic. The availability of this equipment at the outbreak was also extremely low and unreliable. The advance payments were a condition that we could even get to them. Any other decision would constitute a decision to deliver fans in the late autumn or the end of this year. We have never hidden all these facts from the public, nor have we deceived them. But more important than how we explained our conduct to the public, these actions were in full compliance with the legislation in force. How serious the situation was at the time is also proven by the study by Prof. Dr. Dragan Marušič, who says: “The nature of the virus’s operation in Slovenia was such that in early March it spread over the first ten days through an exponential function with a basis of slightly more than one and a half. This means that the number of infected patients has doubled to less than two days or has become dissipated in just under six days. Too late and too little protective equipment would have had the same problems over a period of one month as Italy and Spain had. There was less to their scenario than we hope to admit today.” End of quote. Furthermore, Dr Marusič with mathematical calculations also proves what I claim to be true when the epidemic spreads, and less quality equipment is better than no equipment. Even if the mask has only half the effectiveness of preventing the transmission of the virus, the consistent use of the infected and uninfected contacts reduces this portability to one quarter. Why am I telling you this? In view of the need to be aware of the seriousness of the situation and the danger faced by Slovenia in March and April. It wasn't an exaggeration, it was a reality. In many places, the signatories of the interpretation refer to the summaries of my statements in the media. In this way, we can interpret anyone at any time, but one is words, the other is acts. And my actions do not show what the Signatories of Interpellation tell me that I have violated Slovenian legislation. Thirdly, I reject the evidence of unethical clinical and corrupt cooperation in forcing businesses and individuals, which comes from point 3. As I have said many times, I repeat today, for no contract for the supply of protective equipment was of any other interest than the interest of the Slovenian public. This is for a good 2 million interests, to be exact. Names that have been repeated in public, either from politics or from public life or from the economy, do not say anything about what the signatories want to hear. You want to hear that we have already agreed with these people in advance, and that we have agreed to do this, or that we have agreed, away from the public's eyes, and that we have even invented a crisis situation so that we can do our jobs. Unfortunately for you, none of the above is true. I also made it public that I did not see what the interpolation signatories saw about the calls we received in the second half of March and the first half of April. But I saw in them purely human aid gestures. You can tell me that I am naive, but life and long-term work have taught me not to refuse aid in distress and crisis. And I'll finish it slowly. Slovenia had to centralise the acquisition of protective equipment during the epidemic. Various health institutions were responsible for this before. Why were they in the middle of February and later with completely empty warehouses, I can't explain. This is a question that you must ask someone else in this room. When I heard the outbreak of the epidemic in March, I couldn’t believe the health workers we met at Cankar’s home. They talked about the zero supply of protective masks, the lack of proper fans, the fact that they can't work anymore. Their calls for help were so shocking that I could no longer erase them from my head. We all remember the public calls of the various medical organizations with which the Government was called on 25 March, and I quote again: "As long as the spread of infection in health institutions is not addressed, this time bomb is a time bomb for the spread of the epidemic in Slovenia. In order to prevent this, we need adequate protective equipment. Just as a surgeon does not have to operate without a scalpel, even health workers during a pandemic cannot work without adequate protective equipment.” End of quote. At a certain point, we had protective masks all over the country for about 1 day. In such situations, we were all under tremendous pressure. But on the one hand, they took time to write endlessly long emails, to eavesdrop, to hear that you see and know the contents of other phone conversations, very interesting, and I know people's names. Others, on the other hand, turned their phones around and looked for all the options and all the ways we could get to the equipment as soon as possible. You who accuse me are trying to tell me that this was my fault because I was forced to do something because I forced people to work and showed respect for Slovenian legislation. I wonder what they would've told me if I hadn't done all that. We are not a country with an aggressive and strong diplomatic and lobbyist network. We have friends, and many have helped us. I am talking about individuals and organisations that helped resolve the situation of Slovenia with donations in March. In the critical days when our warehouses were completely empty, we were saved, among other things, by a donation made by Mr Alexander Cheferin and a large shipment of equipment lent to us by the Czech Republic. For both donations, as for everyone else, I sincerely thank you. In a situation of high risk, therefore, you think it would be best to decide on direct purchases. I say responsibly that in the way we have chosen and is lawful, we have saved a lot of disappointments and lost money, but no one is exposing it today. No, you're counting margins, you're counting profits from air transport, you're looking for hair in an egg, just because you can't do anything else. All of us who participated in the purchase of protective equipment did what we could and knew best. The offers we received promised many things, and we decided on what was really available in the shortest possible time and met professional standards. Whoever calls it crime today has the right to say it. But he's not right, not a bit, and he's lying. Those who today manifest their ignorance, irresponsibleness, not transparency can, of course, do so again peacefully and do so, but such accusations are unrealistic, exaggerated, malicious and false. You're wasting time when you're looking for my fingerprints on business with the state or you're looking for corrupt, and for the country, you're wasting your time. If the acquisitions of protective equipment have done anything of the kind at stake for public finances, independent institutions will certainly find that and condemn the competent authorities for their trial. And also, it would probably be appropriate for me to say something here about alleged whistles. What we have experienced is not a whistle. This is a “bittering” and the prosecution of a man who had all the leverage to prevent, according to him, harmful business, but did not use them, he was responsible for it. Why did he do so if he really cared for the country and when unpleasant questions came to him on the day, he ran away to the hospital. Not for the first time, for we who know him know that in the same way he has hidden himself from responsibility in one another, just as a resounding story. A man with a clean conscience and a pure purpose would not call for the help of television cameras, his responsibility and authority could be demonstrated where the citizens expect him to do so — in the workplace. Who thinks that because of such whistleblowers, we will be more honest, more transparent and more clean country, he is wrong not to be more wrong. But we're going to be a country that doesn't separate the real problems from the imaginary ones, condemned to space in the waiting room, to a better tomorrow. Therefore, honourable Members, let us put all the cards on the table today and end this painful and unhealthy story. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of Janja Slug. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u6	Honourable President, Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today we will deal with the first interpolation under the government's mandate, which took an oath on 13 March. In normal conditions, now would be the end of her 100 days of peace. 100 days belonging to every newly appointed government to take on a job. This government didn't have that privilege. Immediately after the oath, she struck with one of the biggest challenges in our country’s history. However we turn, the time when this Government has begun its mandate is not a special one, it is not deplorable, it is not accompanied by the applause of those who wanted a different solution to the political crisis, which accompanied the end of the former government's operation, on the contrary. It is a time of empty streets and markets, of silent kindergartens and schools, of empty poles, of stopped machinery in factories, and it was a time of battle with time and battle for life. I know what you mean by that, the one who's behind the interpolation to exaggerate. Ask the people who have worked in health homes and hospitals, ask the members of the civil security staff who have worked in nursing homes. Their experience of the past epidemic is something quite different than the one we shared behind the walls of this building and shared by those who today uncritically view our country's actions at the time of the epidemic. In the memory of these people, it was not this or they tweeted and recorded on other social networks that or another night’s meeting. Neither is this or they daily political turnaround. Their concerns were much more difficult and far more real. There were other people in their memory who were threatened with a tragic scenario. It did not lack much better said to him for a few days of fully emptied warehouses with protective equipment. For so thin was the difference between the epidemic being able to plague and the impact of the epidemic sitting under the weight of it. That the hotspot of the new crown of the virus has managed to plague and destroy us is the credit of many. First of all, it is the credit of citizens and citizens who have understood the instructions of health institutions and have adhered to them in a consistent manner. This is due to the functioning of vital state systems from health care to social, civil protection, NGOs, education, defence, police and media. All of these are part of the image that Slovenia is proud of today. We are proud of them even though many of them have received distasteful and unworthy remarks and criticisms in these months. The critic was also attended by the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, who today, with his name and standing upright in front of this booth, defends the work done, his work as minister, and finally the Government as a whole. But this image, which we should be proud of today, was ripped out of context and made up of these torn pieces of glue, which no longer has much to do with reality. This is thanks to those who have recognized the political potential in the crisis. The possibility of a return to power. Possibility of a new face, possibility for a new ideological account. All of this is sometimes when our home is safe and can in the future or without great concern be legitimate political tactics, but now is not the time. We are now facing a new economic recession against a serious challenge of how to maintain social security, how to prevent human income interference and how to protect good jobs. These are concerns that a serious master, if at least in a fraction of his consciousness, should feel that way, we in the National Assembly should land him and return him to the point where dialogue is forming and where resentment is cut short. These are the concerns that must have sobered us and reminded us why we are here and what our task is. Slovenia has done well with the epidemic and has learned a great deal from this experience. Now we all know that the country needs an updated crisis response and management plan. We are all more aware of the importance of public systems than ever before, from health care to education. We all appreciate the work of teachers, medical personnel, health personnel, volunteers, policemen, soldiers and so on. And we all know how precious health is and how quickly we can become very, very vulnerable. Those who do not recognize this today are dishonest, dishonest to themselves, to their neighbors, to all fellow citizens and fellow citizens, and if you want to, yes, to their constituents. We also know that we need to improve our supply system by means of safeguards. What we have experienced in recent months has largely not deviated from the experience of other countries. Probably there is no need to renew the stories we could read about in our and foreign media, about tons of lost equipment, overpaid orders, about millions of items that have never been followed by the ordered goods. Such events have been difficult to avoid in recent months also countries that are far bigger players on the global market than we are, with more political power and with stronger lobbying machines. We were prisoners of the market for protective equipment that broke under severe pandemics. The market situation has changed so much that every business has become an uncontrollable risk. We had two options to choose, pay in advance, and risk doing business without going out, or doing business through intermediaries and minimizing the risk and chances of something going wrong. We did what we knew best and knew. We paid for the equipment we bought and got by June 1st for a good 60 million. And if we subtract any lost truck with equipment, we have not suffered any other major damage. All the other numbers that will - and I have no doubt - repeat today during the debate, are pure manipulation. I therefore stress once again, we have paid a good 62 million and protected the lives of citizens and citizens. The goal we had as a country, that is to provide sufficient protective equipment, was met, tormented and sought out all possible but legitimate ways. That this was all before easy, everyone who was involved knows. The stories we've heard are truly incredible. But all of this is a simple bluff and a lie for those who sign the interpolation. The truth they want to see on their own is the only available, the only possible, the only salvation. All those involved in the acquisition of protective equipment are now smarter for a number of experiences that, if we are a responsible country, we should take advantage of to make less vulnerable and less dependent on global manufacturers of protective equipment in future crises. In the SMC Group, we are convinced that there is no one among them who has gone through hell for the purpose of - as the interpolation signatories all the way - of abusing the crisis situation for his own profit. At the very least, there is a Minister for Economic Development and Technology in front of you today. You can say that we are naive, but we do not believe that the situation where the only possible victory was that you were able to buy something and actually deliver it to Slovenia, to anyone who was allowed so much time and space of manoeuvre, that you could intercede the idea of your own profit. Whoever believes in conspiracy theories is hard to help him, but it should be enough what you are in the SMC today and later we want - that independent and trained institutions come to the bottom to acquire protective equipment. To stop criminalizing anyone who has overcome the courage and face that he has done for the country everything he can and knows, after some are now very loud, hiding in their own safe havens. To stop giving up every achievement of the current government. To start talking about facts, not personal opinions. To compare the numbers that are reliable with the numbers that are reliable. That in this high assembly we stop performing a function that primarily belongs to judges and prosecutors and return to what is our primary mission. Everyone will benefit if we take a few steps back and at least try to look at the events of the past few months at least with a human, objective, reasonable and sober head. Those who would like to see the Minister interpelled somewhere in the past, should try to get into his shoes. And let him think about how he would have done the same job as the minister in mid-March. You're smart at talking and acting like that. Writing daily tweets also ignites media storms even more, but that's all that counts. You think that real life is the same as what you experience on your home social networks and meetings, and that the responsibility you publicly refer to is comparable to what you need to have when you take on yourself as a serious task as the minister did. Today we will not discuss what the aim of interpolation is on the political responsibility of one minister; today we will be monitoring another attempt to re-evaluate everything the country has done in the fight against the new coronavirus epidemic. Another attempt to break down the experience that should really connect us and actually give us optimism before the economic recession, which will require a lot of coherence and a lot of cooperation from us. But unfortunately, it still doesn't work. So today we will go home with the expected feelings and the indelible impression that we have missed another opportunity to demonstrate maturity and responsibility in relation to the country and understanding its challenges. Regardless of this missed opportunity, time will show its own. Of course, everyone will interpret it in a loving way. In the SMC, no matter what, we will maintain a sober head with the knowledge that at the head of Minister Restoration we have done everything to preserve the lives and security of citizens and citizens. Of course, the SMC Interpellation Group of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology will not support it. And if I finally quote one of the opposition MPs, everyone in the other looks at themselves, the immoral sees immorality everywhere, the corrupt see corruption everywhere, as a reflection in the mirror of the initiators of this interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Left Parliamentary Group, a colleague of Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. The government of Janez Janša was set up by lies and deceptions. It was made possible by the political centre's parties, who received their mandate on the basis of a basic pre-election promise not to compact with the SDS. Whether they have knowingly lied to voters and voters at the beginning or they have been bewildered by the interests of the impact on so many millions through the state budget, the extension of sentimental functions and the promised service, it doesn't matter. The goal was to remain in power at all costs, even though this means that the state takes over the extreme right. The government of Janez Janša was appointed the day after the epidemic was declared, but apparently the fight against the epidemic and the problems faced by people were never at the top of its agenda. The sleeves are only for the full takeover of power, obviously corrupt transactions for connected SDS networks and other coalition parties are part of this story, not for the first time. Every time Janša is in power, commission goes to heaven. The arms trade in the '90s, the Patria affair, but now under the third government of Janez Janša we have controversial purchases of protective equipment. Anything for money, anything for power. The conclusion of contracts with suspicious, apparently in the further gathered intermediaries, the misleading that, unlike intermediaries, public disclosures and not least the recording of a phone call in which the Minister of Economy Zdravko Restoršek personally intervenes in the business and provides 100 % of the advance for Geneplanet show that the Government is not only in charge of the country but also incapacitated to share the budget millions with its suppliers in public view, while the fat commissions defend it against the same public with obvious lies. In any normal country such practices would be followed by the resignation of the economic minister and the entire government, then by prosecution, but the Government of Janez Janša and Minister of Restoration did not do so. We do not need to explain anything to the public, said Minister Restorationšek at the beginning of this government's mandate. In spite of their disclosures, the extreme right hand and its associates attacked all state institutions. Slovenia is in the middle of a tsunami like we have never seen before. The government rushes to replace people who think with their own heads with their own [[?]] . First they replaced the chief of police, then the chief of crime, at the end of the boss, there's no prosecutor in half. [[?]] No judge. Little Orban and everyone you let power do everything you can to sweep your past current and future crime under the rug. And that's not enough for you. Janez Janša and the company aim nothing less than to silence any criticism in society. So angry day-to-day attacks on journalists, opposition, protestors. To cover up their inability to hide millions of commissions are willing to lie, publicly threaten and destroy. Minister Restovalšek, the president of the party, who still holds himself as a central and liberal figure, is the central political figure that enables this government, its commissions and the destruction of institutions, and which in general protects them publicly if there is to be fat lies. He developed the method in pure form in the first days of the new government. While thousands of people lost their jobs as a result of the coronavirus, as a government minister, they voted to raise their salaries by about €400 to themselves and other ministers and secretaries of state. The public justly jumped into the air. And how did Minister Resteršek respond to the 24 hours in the evening when he voted a raise? He said, quote: “I learned this from you.” Then the minister went on RTV and the journalist Odevov answered the same question: “I have now learned this from you.” Requote. An example of a more obvious lie is hard to imagine. Is such a man really suitable for a minister? It just went down from there. With which he excused the additional EUR 400 for his own pocket, Minister Restovalšek added a series of lies justifying 200 million Euros of transactions in which commissions of intermediaries ran in millions. The decision to purchase protective and medical equipment through intermediaries and not directly from manufacturers, as we have been defending in Levica all the time, was crucial. If there are no intermediaries, there can be no commissions. When specific favourable offers for direct purchases began to arise without intermediaries and through an interstate agreement, and such direct transactions were concluded by most of the countries in Europe, the ministry of Mr. Restovalska is the following message, I quote: the Republic of Slovenia or the Institute of Trade Reserves cannot carry out direct financial transactions in China, as it can only deal with Slovenian suppliers. This is not the decision of this government, but it is a matter of law in force.” End of quote. A lie, thicker than a commission to protect suppliers. There is no legal restriction under which the Ministry has justified the decision to purchase through intermediaries at all. The government of Janez Janša had every legal opportunity to buy equipment without intermediaries and without commissions, but it deliberately decided to buy it. The Court of Auditors also confirmed this. Well, the ministry of Mr. Restovalska has therefore continued with the following quote: "In addition, most Chinese companies also require a 100 per cent advance, which is not being used by the institution because of the possibility of abuse and unreliable supplies." End of quote. Well, that was a fat lie, too. One hundred percent overpayments, and advances were also received by supply companies. “In two hours, three hours, she will have a bank guarantee for this Beatenec. But the point is, he's gonna have to get the job done. On 18 March, Minister Resteršek ordered an advance on the phone to the Department of Commerce Reserves, as we could hear on the recording of the phone call. Two more weeks later, the same minister, Restorationšek, in public on the subject of fat advances, lied further. I quote: "We only pay when we take over, and I will not allow public funds to be misused at the expense and in the harm of Slovenian taxpayers and to take advantage of war profiteers who see in this only an opportunity for good profit." End of quote. The aim of the purchase of equipment, as everyone knows at this point, was not a rapid and economic supply of the population with protective equipment, but a commission. I repeat, the purpose of all purchases was commissions. Therefore, tenders allowing direct purchases and regulated logistics were immediately placed in the drawer. A good example is the offer of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, which would save €41.7 million. Not to mention to the public the well-known offer of the intervention of Alexander Cheferin at Jack May. The latter was refused only because the right suppliers would not have earned it, and then Cheferin was furiously attacked via the SDS media, only because the President of the Government, Janez Janša, fell into exile so that Mr Čeferin could gain a view in Slovenia as the President of the UEFA does not yet have, and that he could build a political career in Slovenia. Of course, Janez Janša was afraid. Not for you, as the SDS has already lied in the electoral slogan, this government works exclusively for itself. With the peak of lies and incompetence, Minister Restoration was crowned in the Tarč show when he tried to defend business with fans. In view of the overestimated and inappropriate purchase of the Siriusmed R30 model, Dr. Richard Knafelj of UKC Ljubljana, a member of the expert group selected by the Government, pointed out in the show. Since he did not like the opinion of the profession, Minister Restorationk immediately sought a second opinion, which he did not feel comfortable with again, so he prepared the truth a little longer. The goal was only to buy the goods that the selected supplier Geneplanet can provide, regardless of whether it is useful at all. You know, they bought golf, not Mercedes. Well, doctors and the Janhistian factory of lies themselves, Nova24, then said that these golfs were not driving because when they were attached to Covid's patient, they would spread the infection and contaminate the entire area. That's why they were put in the basement right away at the hospitals. But Minister Rest was not to be mistaken. With his healthy farm smartness, by which nothing needs to be learned, because the minister already knows everything, he simply repeated, “We bought golf, not Mercedes, people were dying, they would wait until Christmas.” This shows the true resting place and reveals everything that makes it inappropriate for the minister. Arrogance – he always knows everything one doctor, as he put it on Target, will tell him. Incompetence – a person is not able to understand even the simplest technical explanation, why an apparatus is suitable and the other is not, for him is a fan, a fan, such as a car, a car, whether it is a golf course or a Mercedes. Complete unwillingness to listen to anyone – if the expert group gives an opinion that he does not like, then Minister Restoration will switch groups. After all, corruption – although in a telephone conversation with the whistleblower Gallet himself told why Geneplanet was precisely, because this is, I quote: “The story of SDS” and he knew that this business was because of commissions, not because of fans, he had no minimum reservations to it. The readiness of fat lying – when he demonstrated all these properties to the entire Slovenian public and lost all legitimacy, now he is rounding himself up with fat lies that fly from his mouth literally daily, and we have heard their summary at this session today. The Minister does not hide why he is so entrenched in his position, because you are promising that he will establish in this Government a state tourist holding company and an account that this state property will be his dairy cow when he flies out of politics. Fevd, as they say. But his February has already cost us millions of euros. By comparison, several times bigger Croatia bought only €1.7 million of equipment through intermediaries, and directly provided the other €50 million. In Slovenia there are signed contracts for 200 million, all through suppliers. So how much money did we lose in the Janshevs and in the rest of the corruption business? 20, 30, 50 million? It's hard to say because they've beheaded all the institutions that should be investigating this. The lie with which Restoration began his mandate, that is, that from journalists twice, for the first time, he found out about the EUR 400 salary increase he had voted on, is only a drop into the sea. This man has already cost us tens of millions of euros within three months to help clear the pockets of the government's networks and this is just the beginning. If we leave him in position, he will create a Slovenian tourist holding company, a pardon, a holding company for the looting of Slovenian tourism, and let us not forget, they have already put up up to 350 million euros of public money with the vouchers. But most dearly, we will all pay this government in full. The longer we leave Rest in position, the longer the SMC will allow this government and the longer they will be able to go through the collapse of the institutions. At the end of this process, we will be like Hungary, when there will be no more independent courts when the investigative journalists are quieted down when they allow the opposition to do so, then the country will be their prey. All the transactions ordered by such a country will look like a fan deal, except that this New 24 they're trying to extend to RTV won't cover it. Instead of the Tarč show, the show "Alo Presidente" will spin. It is no coincidence that Orban is surrounded by oligarchs themselves, among them two billionaires, and is estimated to be worth €750 million. The Hungarians paid so much for the corrupt and dictatorial government, let us not let this happen again in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia-Krčan Democrats. Comrade Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, other representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Mr Zdravko Restovalšek is clearly a good Minister for Economic Development and Technology, he is obviously a good Minister for Economic Development and Technology, since he already performs this function in a third government. You will not believe that Mr Marjan Sarec, former Prime Minister of the Government, has appointed him to this function, probably because Mr Zdravko Restoršek is a good Minister for Economic Development and Technology. But in fact it is not what the proponents write in the interpretation of their material, because it is not, ladies and gentlemen, because it is not about purchasing protective equipment, because it is not about the difficulties experienced by all citizens, politics, the executive branch of government, especially the medical profession in those worst times, when the proponents of domestic chairs have far observed what is happening and wondered what was happening. In fact, on 27 January this year, Mr. Marjan Šarec unexpectedly withdrew, while verbally at the press conference he kicked his coalition partners and SMC, which has Mr. Zdravka Počvalska, invited together to the elections. You can imagine in the worst epidemic, we'd like an election campaign, people would die for us. But it would not, as some of the proponents say, that there was no virus at all and that there was no virus in Bergamo and that empty coffins were laid in mass graves. This is a lie today that is also spreading in Slovenia and slowly and slowly becomes the truth. We must not forget something because there has been a lot of talk lately about homes for older citizens. We have accurate information when it came to the conclusion of the first infected that the first resident is infected, say, at the home of the older citizens of Šmarje pri Jelšah, 18. 3. If the incubation period is 10 to 14 days, let the profession say so, then there was an infection in the time of the Sharcha government, but we do not see it, we are only setting a time limit to know what we are talking about. Melika, first resident infected on 9 March, first employee in Metlika on 6 March. Ljutomer, first resident infected, detected infection on 27 March and first employed 31. 3. So, because Mr. Šarec has calculated - that is, “accounting, sitting, flower” - now he simply has to account with his potential partner, in this case with Mr. Zdravek Pozvalški, and that is why we say in New Slovenia that this is not really a key topic at all, the protective equipment, the urgent purchase of protective equipment that our health institutions have bloodyly needed, as we have seen and heard at Cankar's house at the meeting of government representatives with hospital management, health homes, with directors, professional directors, with the main nurses; there are videos and once we will also turn over the videos of these conversations and their requests when they have asked: “Protect us if we fall, the health system falls and we will all fall.” At this moment, 30 years after important historical events for Slovenia, for this young country, Slovenia would need a third major national consensus if the first plebiscite was in 1990 and if the second national consensus was the 2003 referendum for Slovenia's entry into the European Union and NATO. But no. It is not a problem to criticize this government, it is not a problem, it is the primary task of each opposition and it must do so, but also in a dignified manner. We have no problem if the interpellation has already taken place on the 52nd or 53rd day since the government's oath, which is not customary in some normal democratic country, but the pain is great, which is also seen in the tight faces of the applicants. And what's even bigger is that the problem is that it's a lie to condemn both ministers and, at least so I understand, coalition MPs who are spreading, that we're criminals, that we're part of organised crime, that we're thieves, and that this rhetoric - beware! - from Parliament spreading to the streets and the state of the spirit is as low today as it has reportedly been in 30 years. And that's the problem. They're not a problem of demonstration, they're all over the world, but they're different. With us - and it looks like only us in Slovenia - you see the banners on the streets where it says "death". Death! This death is not meant to be a granite cube because it is not a living thing. Death means death to people who are probably ruling. This is only possible in Slovenia. I hope that it will not be too long before the rule of law finally takes effect in Slovenia. And be aware, all of you, that everyone, including those who are not here, is doing a crime. With various reports of commissions and so on, about high margins, you have destroyed and destroyed Slovenian companies. Many wanted only to help. As far as prices are concerned - yes, the market for protective equipment did not apply to the market situation, it was Mafia, but you have already forgotten that. And in New Slovenia, we are wondering which economic operator will cooperate with the state of Slovenia at all. What we've been listening to, how some of you have maligned them, businesses, economic operators. We all live from the economy, all of us, including the Members. And what we've heard, that's really amazing. Of course, normally, the extreme Left has in its programme - nationalisation has already begun. For some there is nothing sacred to you, nothing, no human life, no human dignity, and not our family, everything needs to be destroyed and put into place. Go ahead! In the constitution, the exact recipe for how power is replaced is very simple. What kind of pains me the most, especially in Novi Slovenija, has hurt us that, as some have said, nothing is sacred to you and you have also accounted for with a medical profession, amazing. A few days ago there was a meeting of the two committees and, in fact, all this time we are listening to incredible indications yes also for those who were in the first line of battle. The doctor at the front line says how I watched, saw, and felt the Tarch broadcast on death lists. I advocate - I have led the media space to understand ourselves - but everyone who utters the word must be master of his word and the dignity of man is first and must not be conceived. A doctor, a young doctor writes: “As I watched Tarča on TV Slovenia, I realized that I was giving away almost every sentence I said. Many half-truths have been told, events have been shown unfairly.” Not only were we angry but we were very deeply disappointed with the colleagues we were watching the show. It was a pain to see some journalists who, at the end of their lives, did not realize that in Prime Time, they were ruining not only the reputation of our profession but were spitting in the face of all those who were faithfully fulfilling our mission at that time with all the pleasant and unpleasant things that belonged to them. When the epidemic was declared - announced by the Government of Marjana Sharca - on 12 March this year, the pandemic was declared one day earlier. So when the epidemic was declared, we all returned to our home institutions because we were preparing for the Italian script. In Celje we have completely redesigned the emergency centre and most departments and prepared plans for the worst scenarios. We've also doubled the watch. There was anxiety in the air when a moment before the crash hit the shore. We were almost out of equipment at the time, writes the doctor. At first, we only had enough for two days. [[You hear the Charches, you hear the Charches.]] We only had two days to get started. Some of our doctors were looking for ways to get equipment from China with their own money. This was later reported as part of alleged masked barabbas, and the background was released. I don't know who else will stand out for us at the second wave? Hospital, says a young doctor. I cannot go beyond the superhuman efforts of my colleagues at the primary level in nursing homes and those hospitals that shared the burden with us. Imagine how difficult it is for a nurse in an E.R. when she has to work at two ends because they're unstable patients. More work on infected workers, however, has been done to reduce the number of staff. By having been humanely fed prior to COVID. Or a resident who's been on duty for the eighth time in one month in full protective equipment. Hospitals are staffed at all, there are no doctors, nurses are running to work with better conditions or at least without duty, rooms are permanent. Precisely infectious departments in Slovenia are known for hosting in the worst conditions. Our beds do not go through the door and patients should also be presented in case of resuscitation that other more advanced conditions such as hallways or underpressure rooms are not even spoken of. Progress would have been made to bring water into all the rooms, I hope that this epidemic will make it clear that at least minimum conditions are necessary with safe work in the infectious departments. That's not what it is now. I suggest you, colleagues and colleagues, especially those who propose to read this article from a young doctor. You treated him well, I admit. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go. Were there lists? Lists of deaths, as they were called, as far as possible a propaganda effect. We can talk about this a lot. Maybe some other time. And a good-bye to life. It is essential in this debate that we, as a society, must accept that death is an inevitable part of life. Due to the progress of medicine, goodbyes from life may be delayed or prolonged. This raises an ethical question as to when is sufficient, when help becomes torture. We have sworn, doctors, that we will not harm, “primum non-nighter”. How human is it to bring to the ER an immobile 90-plus-year-old grandmother who is not aware of what is happening around her, with her legs and hands in irreversible cramps, contradictions. The only thing this body feels like is stabbing needles, inserting tubes and a lot of foreign hands. If she resists, she'll be tied up and she'll get a sedative. It's life, etc.? Under the line. It remains a bitter taste that it was a quest for an affair for political accounting. By doing so, they create unnecessary divisions and reduce trust in society. How to treat doctors, how to build builders, and how to drive if we do not trust each other. We're all building the company, everyone at their end, and we're doing our best. Yes, and to this I add, we are primarily building a society for the politicians, and that is why it was a good decision of the Government or the entire coalition to invite all the competent institutions themselves to review all the urgent acquisition of protective equipment for details. The Court of Auditors is doing this, the KPK is working, other institutes. I don't have that information myself. I hope that there will also be enough time to review and consider these reports with all due care in the National Assembly. But I'm afraid I'm not a prophet that that won't be interesting. Yeah, that's what I hope to predict. I'm concluding. The New Slovenia Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats will today discuss and vote in such a way that Mr Zdravko Restovalšek will also be Minister of Economic Development and Technology tomorrow and will do so for as long as he succeeds until he does so with pleasure and also with personal satisfaction. And on this further path, we wish him much success. Happy Hail Mary!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u12	Dear Council of Ministers! It would be fair for the Vice-President of the Government and the other ministers of respect for the National Assembly he appointed to remain in the Chamber at least until the parliamentary parties' positions have been presented. Dear Members and Members! Dane is the first intervention in the government of Janez Janša and 42nd in the history of Slovenia. Since independence, we have not been in a more difficult position in the country since the declaration of the COVID-19 epidemic, which has fundamentally reached into our lives. The new coronary disease required effective and legal action from the Government, accompanied by a constant battle over time. Fight with time to control the spread of the virus and to reduce the transmission of infections. To this end, the Government had to provide a large quantity of protective equipment for which a number of suspected corrupt practices occurred. It is known that a number of influential and policy makers, close to the government, have been involved in the business, and there is also a clear doubt about the economy and efficiency of public money spending. In the SAB party, we stress that for each euro, we need to know how and for what it has been spent. We need to deal with taxpayers' money carefully and in the spirit of a good host, and we believe today that direct parliamentary control over the use and allocation of crisis funds would be the best way to resolve doubts about fair sharing. We proposed this in the SAB in the first anti-Corona marriage package and upgraded it in the second with the budget fund. With the budget fund, we would be able at any time to tell exactly how much funding we have earmarked for the resolution of the crown of crisis. No one supported us in this regard, and once again, no parliamentary party, so we are looking forward to explaining to Minister Restovalsk whether he has truly ensured the transparency of consumption in the procurement of protective equipment. In the SAB party, we do not throw all members and government presidents into the same basket, nor do we claim that they are all thieves and criminals on average. We have never used this expression in the Sab client. It is unacceptable, however, that any crisis under the pretext of aid is exploited and misused for war profit. We will never agree to such a course. Today, we particularly want to explain why warehouses of protective equipment were virtually empty from the official announcement of the epidemic on March 12th or from the exchange of governments. We believe that the answer to this question is not difficult, as Minister Restoršek also led the same sector in the previous government. And, with all due respect, the very lack of protective equipment has led to urgent supplies whose irregularities have been confirmed by numerous disclosures. Firstly, the undeniable fact is that protective masks could be purchased without intermediaries and thus saved millions. Recall that the founder of China's Alibaba offered us a more favourable mask than Slovenian intermediaries. This raises a logical question why we have not accepted more favourable offers. Who made the most of it and made the most of it? Probably those who didn't even have protective equipment before the outbreak. Secondly, how is it possible that individual suppliers had priority over others? The Tarč show showed that it had a certain company, which I will not appoint, the status of a privileged supplier all the time. This company, unlike some others, could have had longer delivery hands and higher prices. I really want to know how this is possible, and why are certain irregularities of the miracle drive away from the echoes in Target? Thirdly, inappropriate equipment with questionable, even counterfeit certificates was purchased. We stress, however, that doctors and medical personnel who are constantly in contact with the infected need flawless masks. And for the fourth time, in the supply of protective equipment, you have managed to hide and dispel the responsibility that allows you to make illegal transactions. You moved your orders from one body to another, set up a government inter-resor working group and then a project group proposed by Minister Restovalšek and formally concluded contracts with the Department of Freight Reserves. It is not too much to add that the institution had no experience with such heavy and fast deliveries. Let me finish by listing these abuses. I would only add this, Minister-in-Charge, that saving lives does not mean that in the government it can be corrupt, untransparent and illegal. Things just have to get to the bottom. In a statement by the Prime Minister of the Government of 19 March, published on the Government’s website, I quote: “We will also make mistakes in this situation and this state of readiness, it cannot be avoided. Warn us about them, and we will correct them from the way." Dear Government, this is exactly what we are doing today – we are warning you about your mistakes and asking for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I welcome everyone on all sides of this hall. Ladies and gentlemen, when they come to this booth, they feel that they can say everything they can think of. I'll try to keep this up. Interpellation is a tool that serves its primary purpose - it is to verify the legitimate, legal, responsible functioning of the Government or of a specific minister. Interpellator, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Zdravko Počvalšku, evident among others the chosen ones, profitable procurement procedures and purchase of protective and other medical equipment. Such accusations are not suitable for the use of tools such as interpretation, but are entrusted with such a task by the competent authorities, such as the police, the Court of Auditors, the National Assembly’s Commission of Inquiry. In the proposal for interpretation, in the Desus Group, we understand that the proposaler has put himself in the role of researcher and also of judge. Most of its sources of indictments are drawn from media broadcasts. As it is said, we have competent institutions in Slovenia that monitor, investigate and sanction reported irregularities. The proposaler obviously wanted to make a political and media story out of each one, which he also succeeded to a certain extent, at the expense of his own external image. In the Desus Group, we believe that this interpretation is just a farce and a play they want to undermine the efforts of the entire government team in the face of the crisis. That being so, we can see it from the very way that we invest. On the social network, on April 23rd, Marjan Šarec announced an intervention. We can conclude from the press statements that no one in the opposition knew about this, and it is likely that the surprise for the LMŠ members who were on the statement of those days was very sceptical. Moreover, certain opposition parties stressed that it was only a stand-alone action and that due to five minutes of fame, they would not take part in the matter. Interpellation was then filed on 4 May, including the signatures of those who initially determined that they would not sign their signatures. Also interesting is the content itself, which is read as a poorly written story, in a local newspaper. It is full of vocabularies and conflicting records. Among other things, the offer of a Chinese company called Sinofram for the first time is mentioned, and the second is Cilophoram for the second time. [[?]] perhaps the proposer here will explain which company he actually had in mind. In the proposal for interpolation, we can also read about countering the procurement of protective equipment through intermediaries. A few lines later, we read about the missed opportunity offered by a group of academics. The procurement of protective equipment is encouraged directly in the case of manufacturers requiring 100 % of the advance, which is of course unacceptable, as this could risk huge amounts on the basis of the confidence of companies which are not practically known. Therefore, in the view of the Desus Group, it is entirely appropriate to ensure that the equipment is ordered as much as possible through intermediaries who receive payment only when they supply the equipment. In the case of protective equipment, special purchases were made, where we believe that a variety of economists or perhaps even a culturer, as well as an athlete, have a better connection with the applicants than could be said to be the new, current Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which had to face empty warehouses. Exceptionally, pre-paid pre-paid pre-schools were purchased where the Ministry of Health, Tomaž Gantar, as well as the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, explained the background of the purchase. Any irregularities that may occur will, of course, be checked by the competent authority. In the proposal for interpolation, we also read the offer for protective equipment and medical devices of family members or acquaintances, as well as some political actors. If it goes to the writing of the Dinner of 6 May, where we can read that a fellow Member of the Jews also forwarded the number of the Secretary of State who is sitting with us today to his colleague, who could directly connect the Slovenian Government with the Chinese producer. And it's right that he passed the number. Anyone who could, during such times of crisis, when countries closed their borders and prevented protective equipment from leaving their territory, intervened with the providers in order to receive it as soon as possible and under the best conditions, of course, was welcome. However, it is not appropriate to take any personal advantage, but in such a stormy time one can always find a person who wants to take advantage of such a situation. Without a doubt, in the case of self-purchasing with direct suppliers of equipment, they would sometimes be severely defrauded. However, they did not spend more than 100 million euros on purchasing protective equipment and other medical equipment, as claimed by the interpolation proponent. If you go a little deeper into the acquisition of the equipment itself, you see that the current amount - that's when the interpolation was written - 42 million, today the Interpol minister explained what the amount is. This is due to the principle that equipment should be paid on delivery, with the exception of caregivers who were extremely sought after goods on the market. In the proposal for interpretation, the proposer also writes about the price of protective equipment, in particular the masks that are supposed to cost three cents more recently, and at the time of covid-19 we also bought them at the price of more than one euro per mask. The question is why these masks have not already been purchased in order to have enough of them. Compared to others, including neighbouring countries, I will not be overly busy. Slovenia has about two million people, as many as Milan with a few suburbs, but we have managed to provide sufficient protective equipment and other medical equipment to enable us to deal successfully with the coronary epidemic. We Slovenians also organized ourselves, sewed protective masks, and, above all, acted in a self-defense manner, which is also the result, as government representatives have repeatedly stated. We've achieved what we wanted to limit covid-19 as much as possible. However, we are pleased that the proposaler, with some understanding, only accepts the Minister's argument that his only lead was the early provision of health care, home for older citizens and others with protective equipment. With regard to the word “responsibility”, which you use several times in the proposal, I would point out a few more words. From the report on the supplies made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we can understand many who were responsible for the supply of protective and medical equipment, what procurement procedures were like and what else. But it is not clear to those who are sitting, among other things, in this room, and who have not taken responsibility. The deadline for cooperation by the Government was offered to all. Many, because of their beliefs about success in the early elections, preferred to turn away. Many, because of principles and pure opposition, you did not want to cooperate because you are simply incompatible and do not guarantee compatibility with anyone with your program. But the fact is, if we had a pre-election fight and early elections then, after Slovenia, we would have more problems with the epidemic than we actually had. With little or no protective equipment without financial assistance to the population and the economy and without the solid foundations on which we stand today. This can be acknowledged, however, whether you agree with the left or the right. However, we can tell you that we are aware that the proposal for interpolation that we are considering today is not the last one, but I appeal as a politician and a Member who has long experience that you are also aware of the importance of interpolation and the appropriateness of the use of it, that for every action that you do not use one of the greatest powers of the opposition, it means interpolation. To conclude, when the house is burned down and the firemen with water tankers arrive, no one wonders how much water they have consumed or what they have wett to defend the house or to protect the neighbor. Because anyone who works can be wrong. In the Desus Group, however, we reiterate whether personal exploitation or irregularities have occurred, we expect those responsible to be held accountable, but it is not up to us to accuse individuals without concrete evidence, but rather to entrust this work with the competent institutions or bodies. You're turning up or down this government has done a very good or excellent job in this crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u16	Good day to you all! This interpolation is something like a bad seminar job for a high school student in a retired high school. In fact, it's all based on rumors and statements by a Galet who, in my opinion, we can't take it seriously. The fact is, in view of the professional position, the gentleman is acting very strangely in front of the cameras and in the statements so that many would question in many ways. Otherwise, it's from this interpolation that doesn't actually have a tail or a head or even a body to feel a severe pain after losing power. This is what translates all the time into thinking part of the opposition, because the loss of power means a huge loss of position, a loss of media power that is slowly disappearing and more. It was said when Mr Pavšič, as the proponent, said that the European Union had prepared not know how many fans it would send. The European Union has done nothing. They lied, they lied, and in the end it happened that they were sending around masks that were inappropriate, and I'm asking these motioners, or maybe you'll put some interpretation against the lady because she lied about these things. [[Incomprehensible]] No, you won't, because Europe needs to bow down, but they don't tell the truth and they cheat. You probably won't do that, of course you won't. What's interesting is that no one asks what's wrong with this recording that Mr. Gale learned. A covert recording is a crime and I expect Mr Gale to "fass" a criminal complaint, because otherwise it will fall apart, because the fact is that if some shoot it is allowed if some others record it is strictly forbidden. Let's have the same criteria for everyone. And I expect that the Minister will indict Mr Gallet or at least an unknown perpetrator for illegal recording and that it will be determined who was the one who recorded and will be punished accordingly. However, as for Mr. Gallet, he said that he could not examine everything, that he could not know everything, even though he was after the opposition he had, he was the leader of the general service, it all went through his hands, but he said: “I couldn’t see everything, because you know how badly this was so many papers.” However, it was no problem that the 84 pages of the long report prepared by the Government were processed in one day and commented on by the government on television or in the media, which was not a problem. I'd say if then it was a vaccinated personality to do that once and for all. One thing he can accept, and one thing he can't accept. That's weird. But Mr Pavšč said one more thing, he spoke about the importance of electronic messages, and it is interesting, and I have some here, and it is very interesting what electronic messages Mr Gale sent. And how these electronic reports fit in with what's being said in the media. In the media, for example, Mrs. Potočnikov was spitting at her, simply spitting at her. But now let's read some of his e-mails. Let's say 14. 4. he wrote a nice greeting, Ivan Gale, the head of the general service, the signature, wrote, so only part of I will read: “We are at the institution with work, desire and enthusiasm of Mrs. Potočnik extremely pleased, and also all coworkers have it as opposed to mags. They are well received, I propose that coordination be attended by Mrs Potočnik and then transmitted information to the institution. I don't know where the change in Mrs. Potočnik's is from. Another e-mail from 15. He said on 4th this year, Mrs Potočnikovi writes: “Andreja, today I have spoken with Mr Zlatan”, this Zlatan is the representative of Cross Continental, “a really charming and polite man, especially a professional, regular reporting if all suppliers were to have three quarters less work. Irena and I have already talked about them today." It's an e-mail. Another e-mail dated 21. 4. writes: “Mrs. Potočnik was also the guardian of Cross Continental, and she communicated with them all the time and arranged business. Although Potočnikov acted as one of the few who really wanted to get masks and other equipment, it doesn’t matter who brought her.” Very interesting, because Mr Gallet's statements to the media were quite different. In fact, one comes to some conclusion to say that maybe Mr. Gallet didn't even want the masks to come to Slovenia, I don't know why, but it's also possible. Man thinks of a lot of things. It was said that these actions would also be investigated by the Court of Auditors. But the Court of Auditors doesn't know if it's appropriate for these investigations. I'll say one thing first. For the first time; Mr Gale is supposed to meet Mr Tomaž Vesevo. Why? There's probably nothing like it in the Court of Auditors to deal with this business. Here is an interesting correlation – what, why, what and who, and how could the Court of Auditors properly investigate the affair of the mask if the President of this court, even before the outbreak of the affair, was to contact Mr. Gallet? Was there any connection here that this affair had begun? I don't know. I think about everything. This should be investigated by the relevant authorities. I hope so. Trust in the Court of Auditors, we don't have it. We don't have it in our client, because the Court of Auditors punished us because we paid 150 Euros a high bill two days later from another account, as we should have, we got 10,000 euros in fines. Has a party of Social Democrats been punished for nearly 900 000 euro of poofs? No, it doesn't matter. If you pay – if you pay – and you pay 150 euros wrong, you get 10 Euros fines. Of course, in court, one judge was smart enough to reject it, but the Court of Auditors complained and then the judge really reduced our sentence, but still, 4,000 euros we had to pay. Then what kind of Court of Auditors is this? I don't believe him. And, if we look at it differently, Mr Vesel, President of the Court of Auditors, there is also, according to one rumor, a candidate for a new name, a new face, in Slovenian politics. Is there a connection here? To do something to make it happen and get something else? I don't know. It's really, really funny. In fact, a few people in the Department of Commerce have a lot to say about all these things, don't they? Someone from the Department of Commerce Reserves also told Mr Gallet that he was a specialist in thermal optimization of reproductive appliances. In the conversational Slovenian language, it would be said that it cools the eggs. Maybe it's true, I don't know, it all looks like that, kind of. And then there's talk in here, in the papers, about how all the possible people were on the phone and trying to help with the masks. Yeah, it's true. Rumor has it that the Prime Minister's wife telephoned and asked for masks. Very nice, very commendable. Anyone who tried to help deserves at least a thank you. But they are also those that are filled with the mouth of irregularity, and I don't know what else they've tried otherwise. For example, it is said that Jani Möderndorfer's daughter also tried to intervene through someone else to intervene with Minister Tonin so that her company or boyfriend, or the parent of a boy, would get a job for masks. Wow, that's very interesting, isn't it? Very interesting. Well, it's not the only story, it's just, I don't make sense to bore all of you here with these stories. In short, the interpolation that part of the opposition has put in is shameful. Shame on you, too, those who signed such a paper. This paper is a pamphlet, a pamphlet that is probably written on hard paper to be used for some hygiene variant. What this pamphlet is no longer worth, and I don't know how you're going to support this interpolation. If you're preparing an interpolation, put the facts on a piece of paper, not a fabrication. Give verified facts, not some rumor spoken by some Gale, about which his colleagues at the Department of Reserves do not have a good opinion. But it is true that if we look at the papers and see the signatures, we see that Mr Gale has been signed on several papers. If I'm not mistaken, there are 11 contracts worth around €29 million, and I think there are almost ten more annexes to the contracts for about €39 million. If we put this together, it's almost 70 million euros worth of signature. Minister Restoration said that about 60 million euros were paid. This means that Mr Gale is signed on several documents for even more money than the state has paid. I don't know. Dear colleagues who have submitted the interpretation, please, for the second time consult with those who know something, those who have the truth and justice, not the pain of losing power to write such nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have examined with great attention the interpretations submitted on the work and responsibilities of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počivilska, who was put into the parliamentary procedure by the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups, based on three key points. We have also examined with great attention the contents of the Minister for the Economy's response to the allegations and irregularities given in the interpretation. After studying both texts, we decided in the SDS Group that we would not support the proposed interpretations against the Minister of Economy. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that the intervention against Minister of Health is unjustifiable and unfounded and that the intervention given is exclusively a political fight against the Minister of Economy and exclusively a political fight against the Government of Janez Janša. We will not support the interpretation for more than one reason. Mr Zdravko Restovalšek, Minister of Economy and Technology, gave convincing answers based on verified data and rejected all the findings cited by the parliamentary groups in the interpretation. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that the purchases of protective medical equipment have taken place in accordance with the legislation in force, which also allows for reduced procedures in the event of an epidemic or emergency. However, it should be pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has made public supply contracts long before any issue of supply, price of protective equipment was raised. The government has also itself called on the Court of Auditors to investigate the acquisition of protective equipment. The highest margin of protective equipment was provided by standard suppliers of Slovenian health care. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the problems and attacks on the Minister of Economic Affairs, the attacks on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia began when these suppliers did not come along. We can't get past the fact that the government of Marjana Sharca left behind empty warehouses of protective equipment in the wake of the coronavirus epidemic. At the time of the coronavirus, it was impossible to buy protective equipment directly from the Chinese company. The market closed and Slovenia needed someone to bring the equipment directly to Slovenia. The hardest part was when it was necessary to tell your doctor that there was no protective equipment. Nevertheless, the government of Janez Janša succeeded almost impossible. Slovenia has proved to be a success story in the fight against the epidemic, as has been pointed out by many foreign media and, last but not least, by the European Commission. Let's go back a few steps. The COVID-19 epidemic erupted at the end of 2019 in the Chinese city of Vuhan and spread rapidly from there around the world. The first cases of the virus in Europe were found in France, Germany by the end of January 2020. In Italy, where the main focus of the epidemic was also in Europe, the first case was identified in early February. In Slovenia we know that this was 4 March 2020. The COVID-19 epidemic has been responded differently by the European Union countries, and most countries have thus taken the necessary measures to prevent the spread of the disease. The first measures concerned the establishment of border and health checks on passengers, in particular those coming from neighbouring Italy. There were bans on events, closure of schools and kindergartens, restrictions on movement and so on. In view of the rapid spread of the epidemic, the European Union countries had to engage very quickly in the procurement of protective equipment, in particular due to the widely known experience from China and Italy, it was essential to provide protective equipment, in particular for hospital and health personnel providing care to patients. Because of the lack of central resources, a large number of health personnel have been infected in both China and Italy. And how did Slovenia react? Prior to the first confirmed first infection in the Republic of Slovenia, the then President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Marjan Šarec, was informed of the warnings of the profession, both about the lack of protective equipment and the need to take the necessary measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19, but ignored all these warnings. This is also confirmed by his statements made to the public. On 27 February, he said at a press conference following a government meeting: "Civil protection will be included if there are more patients. That's when the army, sanitation and others will be involved, but we're not there yet. Therefore, those who have called for the closure of the border only spread panic but spread panic.” February 27th. He also said: “The statement that doctors are afraid of the virus is legitimate but does not contribute to the calming of the public. Experience from neighbouring Italy has shown that very sharp measures have not prevented the spread of the disease.” He also said: "It is entirely inappropriate that healthy people coming from abroad also from endangered areas remain on the sickle stock." On 8 March, Mr Marjan Sarec continued to insist that we do not have an epidemic and that there were no reasons for calling the National Security Council earlier. It is unlikely that a reference would even be made to the fact that the then mandate-holder for the 14th government, Mr Janez Janša, has repeatedly highlighted the need for a call in public. Thus, although Slovenia is the immediate neighbour of the main European hotspot in Italy, it declared the epidemic only a day after the World Health Organisation declared the pandemic. Let me remind you, Italy has already declared an epidemic or emergency on 31 January 2020. The COVID-19 epidemic was declared in Slovenia on 12 March. The health and life of humans were at risk. There was a real possibility that a large number of people would be affected in a very short time, which would have a huge social, security and economic impact. In exceptional circumstances, everything needed to be done to slow the spread of the virus, and the operation in such situations was extremely difficult and unpredictable. Since 13 March 2020, the new government has had to face the epidemic practically from the very beginning. It had to deal with significantly greater instability in the supply of personal protection market than if a preliminary government were to be purchased on the basis of conclusions and findings of an extraordinary meeting of the Ministers for Health of the European Union on 13 February 2020. Dear interpellationers, I ask you whether citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia were able to buy protective masks or disinfectants on free sale on 25 February? They're not. Respected interpellationers, could citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia buy masks or disinfectants in stores on 3 March in a free sale at pharmacies? They're not. On 10 March, were the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia able to buy masks or disinfectants for free sale? They're not. The timing of the measures and the facts regarding the state of the protective equipment, on the day the new Government came, shows how strongly the government of Marjan Sarca underestimated the epidemic. The collapse of the protection equipment market, the unforeseeable logistics link and the completely ineffective operation of the European Union have been reflected in the currently fully stopped supply of protective equipment and in barely manageable purchasing processes. Therefore, it was difficult to describe the situation on the mask purchase market at the start of the pandemic as a complete chaos and the occurrence of emergency situations. One that's never been in history. The situation on the Chinese market of protective and medical equipment, the beginning of the pandemic outside China in March 2020, further exacerbated and literally changed from hour to hour. No one, nor the large Chinese state-owned companies, could guarantee any shipment in March. The government that came on the day after the outbreak was declared saved lives by purchasing protective equipment. The new government has practically started taking action overnight. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia issued a regulation setting maximum prices for protective, protective and other health equipment which entered into force at 8 a.m. on 14 March for a period of three months. The Regulation fixed the maximum retail prices of protective, protective and other health equipment in force on the 14 March market as the maximum prices. Also on 14 March, the Decision established the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Central Procurement of Security Equipment for the whole of Slovenia. On 17 March, on the basis of an analysis of the situation on the market of personal protection, equipment, it was found that in the Republic of Slovenia, which has not yet established self-sustainment in this area, we will not be able to provide sufficient equipment. The sharp rise in the price of protective equipment, the extension of delivery deadlines and the late retail price, the protection and other health equipment did not allow for the acquisition of sufficient stocks of personal protective equipment, and the Government has therefore supplemented the Regulation setting maximum prices for protective, protective and other health equipment, by providing that these higher prices are valid. On 17 March 2020, on the basis of an analysis of the state of the equipment market, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concluded that there is no self-sustainment in this area and that it is necessary to do so systematically, carefully, in view of the market situation. Until the epidemic was declared, the acquisition of protective equipment in Slovenia was under the responsibility of various institutions, from individual hospitals and other health institutions to companies and institutions. The Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Trade Reserves, under the auspices of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, was legally responsible only for the stocks of smaller quantities of protective equipment. These do not correspond to the crisis situations we have witnessed since the outbreak of the epidemic. Moreover, it is the quantities that were sufficient for a day or two in the current health situation. This information provided an important explanation of why no quantities of protective equipment were needed in the warehouses of the supply reserves when the epidemic was declared and the subsequent pledges made by the current Government. The facts that speak are different, as the interpelling proponents state. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the findings of imprudent, public finance, non-economic, electoral, profitable procurement procedures do not hold up. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the proposals made by the proposer in the interpretation, regarding public procurement and purchase of protective equipment, do not hold. In the SDS Group of Members, we are convinced that the applicant's statements on unethical, “clientelic” and corrupt cooperation in favouring companies and individuals for ordering do not hold. And, respectable, respected, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that Slovenia has proved to be a success story in the fight against the epidemic, which has been pointed out and contributed to by many foreign media, and, last but not least, the European Commission has acknowledged this. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that a large part of this is also due to Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister of Economy and Technology. Once again, we will not support the proposed interpretation in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group because we are convinced that it is exclusively a political fight against the Minister of Economy and the Government of Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Brane Golubović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u20	That's a nice hello to you all. A respected minister with a team! Today, the coalition MPs who represented the positions also spoke about what the previous Government had done wrong but not about the subject of interpretation. You've diverted your attention. So let me remind you of what we are discussing today and what we are going to decide today. Today it is our decision whether Minister Zdravko Restoršek is objectively responsible for harmful behaviour in purchasing protective equipment. We are talking about the absence of comprehensive management and cooperation, which is the source of all the problems that have arisen with regard to the acquisition of protective and medical equipment. There was no clear decision-making direction, it wasn't intentional. It was deliberately unclear who was the leader, who was doing what, who was evaluating, who was signing the contracts, and so they could, you could postpone responsibility, play ping-pong, and you're doing it now. The three ministries of your defence and health each had their own working group under some other group, deliberately. Of course, then you could have lost a truck, some shipment, competed who was going to take a photo first, put pressure on the Department of Commerce reserves, made conflicting statements. [[Incomprehensible]] There was no attempt to contact the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, with the President of the Government of the People's Republic of China. I don't know why. The chancellor of Germany did it. The President of the Croatian Government did so. Why would he get in touch? In order to agree that Slovenia will receive direct protective and medical equipment. Of course, it was intentional to justify intermediaries, but they could not. Otherwise, to allow for the exception of earnings even perverse variety. Hardly, at all. Once again, the President of the Croatian Government and the Chancellor of Germany were able to do so because they were after the country. You have not used all your local knowledge and connections to get quality and affordable equipment. Why did you miss Krka, why did the intermediary company not become the Post Office of Slovenia cooperating with Ali Baba? Why did you not activate companies operating or operating with China, why did you not activate Gorenje, which has Chinese owners? Why didn't you activate Huawei Slovenia, deliver some masks you could possibly deliver even more? Why did you not include more Slovenians who work and live abroad and are in important positions? Why did you lean on companies that had no business or very little to do with protective and medical equipment until then? Joc Pečečnik also said in one of his statements that after medical and protective equipment he did not know, but he was told by Minister Tonin by a number of people in China that they would arrange everything. Another question is, what did our Embassy in China do? As far as we could monitor the media, the diplomatic services of other countries worked. In order to be honest with the Slovenian Embassy in China, the question must be asked differently - what should have been done by the Slovenian Embassy in China; perhaps this is a more real question. Dear Minister Restoration, you are not responsible for all of this, we know that, but you are responsible. But your sole responsibility is the work of your Ministry, the work of all organizational units within the Ministry, the work of your Department of Commerce Reserves, your project team for coordination and execution of the purchase of protective equipment. And you are also responsible for the performance of your probationary counsellor, Mr. Target, who was a sort of - difficult to determine - procurator at the Department of Trade Reserves. You are responsible, Minister, for all their actions and actions. Even if you didn't know if you were just a follower, you're responsible because you're in charge, Minister, because you're a minister. And let us go in the order of what we tell you, what is what you are undoubtedly responsible for, and we should, if we had any political culture and sense of justice, withdraw today. The purpose of the Government and you, as executor, together with Assistant Minister Tonin and Minister Gantar and Super Supervisors of the Government of Janez Janša, was to create the conditions for providing perverse profits to selected domestic intermediaries. Maybe you didn't all know this was the purpose, but when we look at the whole story, we find out today that that was the purpose. At the same time, the aim of this group was to get rid of unfair domestic companies and manufacturers of protective equipment from abroad; we will also try to prove this. Your common goal was very clear - to provide selected domestic intermediaries with 100- and multi-percent margins or to enable the purchase of VIP tickets for the most profitable business in the history of Slovenia. Which four factors have taken place in parallel, you have been knowingly or unknowingly helping to do. In the first act, the government, led by John Janša, created panic, fear. Remember, first session, masks, five minutes after that, they're put down when the press leaves. This created the conditions that disproportionate measures could also be taken and purchased unsupervised protective equipment. In the second act you organized data on protective medical equipment, especially as regards the number of fans, as already said colleague Robi Pavšič, and created the impression that when changing the Government of Fans, which would be suitable for the treatment of patient covid and free, there is no. In the third act you set up an opaque and chaotic procurement system, where there was no idea who was doing anything, who was responsible for something, which opened the door to customerism and corruption. To put it even more clearly, the electorate was given the opportunity to make a war profit. In the fourth act, you prevented direct purchases of the country's protective and medical equipment from the producers and, without a hint of shame at the Ministry, referred to non-existent legislation. You've been fooling around here, too. It is true that you did not do this alone, but you were an active executor together with the Government and the Prime Minister of the Government. For this reason, we should have stepped down, but since you are not, let me base each of these actions even more thoroughly. Your first joint action was to create fear and panic in society, which, together with all the government services and her speaker, Mr Jelk Kacin, you have done well. You've been doing this for two months, spreading panic, fear and misinformation -- you went into shock doctrine. And while people were in shock when they respected the measures when they looked after each other, the government carried out its plan, its, under the terms, “corruption dance mask”. You immediately started to edit data on the number of fans, something about which has already been said. In all your performances you claimed that we do not have fans in Slovenia and thus created panic in society. It was said: “People will die, we do not have enough fans, enough free fans, enough suitable fans.” And if Slovenia does not immediately start buying fans regardless of the price and regardless of its quality, it is only better that it is, then the disastrous consequences will be seen or seen when it all began. It all began on 13 March, when Minister Gantar of the National Assembly gave three key messages, three key messages about fans, I am not talking about masks, I am talking about fans that you have been repeating for the next two months in the government and coalition. The first message he gave, in Slovenia, can happen an Italian script for which we need at least 200 fans if we do not want thousands of people to die. The second message he gave. In Slovenia we have only 168 fans, of which only 20 or 30. And the last message he gave and you've all repeated it, we need to take immediate action in Slovenia, because it should not happen to us that doctors decide who they're going to attach to the camera and who they don't. We're saving lives with fans. At that time, it really seemed that this was the case, and you, as well as some other representatives of the government and colleagues of the coalition, kept repeating it. Let me remind you of just one broadcast where this happened, on April 30th, the Tarč show, where you and the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, Mrs Jelka Godec, said: “As Minister Restovalšek said, we were on zero, no fans and it was necessary to get them as soon as possible.” 30. April's still rumored we were nothing, nothing to say how many we have. Today, you know, we also saw at your presentation, and we also discovered in the LMŠ that the government is about the number of fans on 13. 3. even a month ahead, and another day of deceiving. I will also argue this reason why it was misleading. On 25 May, the Minister of Health and his ministry acknowledged, by the way, at a meeting of the National Assembly and then on Twitter, that on the day of the change of government in Slovenia there were 281 fans, of which at least 168 were suitable for the treatment of patient cod. Wow! There were no more than 20 of them, there were no 30 of them, there were no 0, which were available and suitable for the treatment of covid patients. But to make the story even better, in the Marjana Sharca List, we requested access to information of a public nature for all hospitals with one simple question, how many fans did the hospitals have on 13 March 2020? Until yesterday we received data from all hospitals except UKC Maribor did not deliver this data and you will not believe on Day 13. 3. already stated, Slovenian hospitals had at least 404 fans. We're listening, 404. It's not 168 or 281, it's 404. This is a completely different information that completely rejects government arguments about life-savings and the argument that everything must be bought at all costs regardless of quality. We'd better have something more than nothing, but we didn't need something like that in the words of Minister Gantar, that in the case of the Italian script we need 200, maybe a few more suitable fans, and now we find out that we were on 13. 3rd fan cases 168. So you don't say we didn't have 200, so we had to buy. Actually, we had the right fans at 30. 3, 168, I think the next day or the date later came six new fans, we had 174 suitable fans and free and Gorenje delivered 46 more modern fans at the end of March, if I am not mistaken. So we had the end of March 220 fans. No nothing, no 20, no 30, as in Target, on April 30th, we had 220 fans suitable for the treatment of COVID patients and free. Today you know this, today we know the Slovenian public, and today we know that the purchase of fans was slow and it was also known that UKC Ljubljana had already ordered new fans on 12 March. From 12th to 17th, if I'm not mistaken, three or four public orders have been made for fans and some have already arrived. The Gorenje fans, which were commissioned before, of course, I already mentioned, came on March 31st, but no, April 30th nothing, we must act. Dear Minister! Whether you knew it or not, in our opinion, there was no need to insist on the rapid conclusion of the contract by supplying highly overpaid fans with Geneplanet, which were also of poor quality and without additional equipment that would allow the treatment of COPID patients. Only in the case of Geneplanet, if we assume that there were enough fans and that this purchase was reckless, did you harm taxpayers for EUR 4 million, it was worth the deal. One home for the elderly, a few apartments for young people, say, four million for research and development, for our economy. Either you did it on purpose or because you didn't know, it doesn't matter. In this particular case, I apologize, but in this particular case you have also made a call to make an advance for this company, so that they will already place a guarantee in the coming hours. So it was in the interest of this business to be carried out as soon as possible. It could have been pretty well-intentioned, but it was wrong. And that is why you are responsible for the four million-dollar damage to the state budget and here, dear colleagues and colleagues, my performance should end. I'm supposed to make a dot here, and you should step down, Mr. Secretary, not just you, but also Minister Gantar, because he's misled you with a number of suitable fans. But we're moving on. The above example shows that the Government had precisely defined companies in mind in the supply of equipment. No matter the prices or the needs. However, in order to be able to give priority to friendly companies without anyone noticing, you had to make the selection of intermediary companies for the supply of protective and medical equipment easy to make, because if the thing was centralised, even through domestic intermediary companies could be done transparently and transparent, but the system was set up in a way that no one knew where to decide, you had multiple e-mail addresses, one on the MORS, one on the MOR, one on the side of you, something else worked, everything was blurred. And besides, frantically, I have to say, because there's an overriding responsibility, and that's what I've already said, this ping pong constant, you've had to find one organizational unit that isn't the most qualified system you've ever set up. And look, you found him inside your ministry and he's called the Department of Commerce Reserves. Thus, you have established an opaque and chaotic procurement system in which you have disposed of domestic brokerage companies that were not on the line with the government and privileged friendly companies. And let me remind you how this system came about, I've already mentioned something. At first, we had some crisis headquarters, which you stopped very quickly because it was illegal. If I am not mistaken, exactly one four-day until 20 March, the department of supply reserves was responsible for the full handling of offers for the supply of protective equipment. His assignment was then split up by Morse and your ministry, each with its own task force. I must not forget here Mr Target, who has added more fog to the system, and let us not forget the Ministry of Health, which had its working group. And there were some subgroups, including a subgroup to assess the suitability of fans, but this subgroup led by a recognised Dr. Night did not take into account the government. So we got an opaque and complicated system of supply equipment, where no one knew who was doing anything, on what criteria indirect companies were chosen. Therefore, it is not surprising that out of all the tenders received, 47% remain unopened. How do we today know that there is no one among these unopened ones who is more suitable than the ones we have chosen? Most perverted, but maybe that's too harsh a word, and I apologize, but anyway, it was that everyone in the government made an impression like he was buying the equipment himself. There was one Gale, and I don't know who else, and someone else, and they bought them themselves. No, in fact, the government and your ministry were behind all of this. After all, it's within your ministry, because the institution has no knowledge, it says, no human resources, no other resources, and eventually it has no authority. Because if one authority that makes tenders or collects offers for about 200 million euro contracts, which, today, the Minister has said, is significantly less, one such authority would kneel with such authority when called by the Minister "now, immediately, do so" - then this body cannot do so and has no authority, no experience or knowledge, I apologize. This thing should be run differently. But yes, it was important for you to create the impression that the institution was responsible for everything. You, you, the office. Your last act was to provide high profits to friendly brokerage companies. And you did this in a way that you simply banned direct purchases of protective and medical equipment from manufacturers, especially Chinese state-owned companies. Let me remind you of the period between March 16th and March 20th - I think this was a period, but the fact that the data is really not much despite transparency - the Chinese manufacturers have come to Slovenia with protective and medical equipment, where our embassy, and the SAZU, as well. At that time, your ministry rejected cheaper equipment and this justified that legislation prevents the direct purchase of equipment from the manufacturers of equipment, that foreign producers in Slovenia must have their representative, that Slovenia cannot carry out direct financial transactions with China, that we can only deal with domestic suppliers so that we cannot pay a 100 % advance. You have tried to explain why Slovenia cannot buy directly protective and medical equipment from China. They didn't do so well in Croatia and Germany, so they could buy, didn't they? Today we know that what your ministry has written, what your representatives have said, or perhaps even yourself, is not true. Legislation allows for indirect purchases by countries from producers, even in its recommendations the European Commission has proposed to countries to purchase directly. Direct financial transactions in China are not prohibited, even in your report or government report, I apologize, it says that the Ministry of Health has already allocated funds to China for the purchase of equipment so they have done so, and the equipment has been obtained as likely. We also know that Germany and Croatia bought directly what has already been mentioned from China. Why am I talking about them so much? Because it's mostly about these two countries, but these are not the only countries that have bought directly. Today, we also know that according to your performance, at least five domestic brokering companies have made a 100 percent advance, which is said to be possible advances. I understand or in the LMŠ understand your deception that we cannot buy directly from equipment manufacturers even a reference to non-existent legislation, because all of this has enabled the entry of friendly intermediary companies and high earnings and the rejection of other domestic suppliers at lower prices. These low-priced providers exist you won't believe even we found one, despite transparency. Ledix offered FFP2 masks during the same period as government-elected companies at the end of March. The difference between this company and the company that was close to the country is that this company had a very low price for these masks, 1.97 euros in transport. The procurator of this company even acknowledged or said that the purchase price of this mask was 1.7 euros and that their margin was 18% because they did not seem to want to earn any more because the state was in crisis. According to this procurator, he also sent offers for the purchase of half a million masks at the Department of Commerce, and the office sent him a contract to sign and then received a message that the Ministry of Economy did not give consent for half a million masks and, say, two euros. No, but to agree to masks of 3.20, 3.50, 3.70. 4,26 euros was the most expensive mask I think on 27 or 28 March FFP2. However, in order to make the story even better, this company will easily sell to another company that has collected offers from the Ministry of Defence of the Army, most likely their working group also received this offer and sold 300 000 masks for soldiers after 1.97 euros per mask. So the alternative was significantly cheaper to buy directly from China and other producers than our domestic companies and offers were on the table. In direct and cheaper purchases, they were simply not in the interest of this government as we have proven so far. By the way, it's also because your ministry and you run the ministry, so I'm telling you about the legislation and all that they didn't come to direct purchases would've been enough for you to step down. In view of all the known facts, we can say that the entire system of acquisition of all these acts, which I described, was set up by the three ministers from the three parties of the Gantar coalition, Mr Tonin and you Minister, and directed by the President of the Government of the Fourth Party, you have indeed divided yourself into areas primarily to remove responsibility and to open the door wide to clientism and corruption. The consequences are high margins for friendly companies and a total overpayment according to estimates of some national media of this equipment amounting to at least EUR 30 million. Some even wrote about €40 million overpaid equipment. The alternative for all of this was despite the times of crisis. The alternative was to demand on the table real information on how much equipment we have, not that the entire coalition and the whole government have been explaining, the warehouses have been empty. Yes, the minister said honestly why the warehouse of the Department of Stocks was empty. We have shown you honestly that the warehouses of hospitals in Slovenia were not empty with fans. There were 404 of them. Not in the warehouses. They had it ready. I'm not saying we didn't need fans. But I'm saying we had about a week or two to think about it and buy it. It was the largest public procurement operation in the history of Slovenia. The most profitable business. Unfortunately, only for the electorate. And that is why the government should establish a central and transparent system of purchasing protective and medical equipment, even if they had intermediaries, but transparently. Not that the erar accidentally falls down for a week, it says, where all state transactions are collected. And that the contracts will only be published later, not so from the beginning, when you started to conclude them, but okay. Dear Minister, even if you thought you were doing well or just following some instructions from the government or simply didn't know what you were doing for the above mentioned, what I said was responsible. You're responsible because you run the Ministry. As Minister Tonin is responsible for a soldier at the border with Italy who has violated paragraphs 37 and 37a, which has not been activated at all, he is responsible. I don't understand why you're hiding so much from this responsibility. I believe Minister Tonin will also find an organizational unit that will then be responsible. But it's not just you. Today, at least Minister Tonin and Gantar could be sitting with you, as well as, of course, Prime Minister Janez Janša, but they left you alone. But it's respectable that your team is here. All three ministers and the President of the Government have tactically withdrawn, but of course the coalition will defend you, of course it will protect you, but only to keep your mouth shut because you know much. But after a while, the esteemed minister, you will see from a distance in peace, that it was only a well-thought-out game of fans in which you were only a statistician. During the performance, our position and presentation by our colleague Pavšić have proved to you, Minister, that you have been misleading about a number of fans in Slovenia. It wasn't 168, it was 404. We have further shown you that you have established an opaque and corruption risk-based model of choice of intermediary companies, allowing the electorate to make war profits. We have also shown you that there is no law or legal obstacle in Slovenia to direct purchases of the country from Chinese equipment manufacturers. All these actions and actions of yours have and still have resulted in enormous damage to public funds of taxpayer money. So in the LMŠ, we believe that there are enough concrete reasons for us to give up today and tell the truth. Telling you what went wrong with these purchases of equipment and why. If you are unable or unable to do so, you should be assisted by Members and Members of your party. Today, we are not just deciding about your survival or the survival of this government. Governments come and go, the country always stays. Today we also decide what will and will not be allowed in our country, because under this government everything seems to be allowed and no one is responsible for anything. Dear Minister Zdravko Restoršek, your recognition of mistakes and harmful actions in purchasing protective and medical equipment and, as a result, your resignation in the country would restore honour, responsibility, justice to political culture. In one of the many documents that we reviewed when we were preparing for this interpretation, someone in an electronic message addressed to your ministry wrote: “The truth is sometimes painful but not offensive.” We add that the truth, even though it is so painful, finally sees the light of the world and wins justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today's interpretation against the Minister for Economic Development and Technology is more than an interpretation of the work and responsibility of one minister. It means an opportunity and reflection, a debate and a decision on how this country is being led today - a way for which we are discussing today, less than three months after the appointment of the Government in the National Assembly, the recall of the Minister. In normal circumstances, the government is supposed to have its so-sung 100 days of peace, but the situation is not entirely normal and there can be no new virus in the global pandemic. We are finally convinced by the Minister and the whole Government that the situation is far from normal and that that is why it was necessary to act in the way that the signatories of the interpolation are acknowledged to the Minister. The way they have chosen or allowed to achieve the objectives is because, despite the end of the epidemic, the situation cannot be normalised, not without clearing up the responsibility for the situation. We are aware of the length of the government mandate and are aware of the situation in which the world and Slovenia were in critical times when it was necessary to obtain protective equipment. This has been demonstrated since the beginning of the mandate, when we have been constructively involved in all the necessary crisis management procedures in which the world and Slovenia have emerged. On the day the epidemic was declared and then the new government swore, we remained silent as the opposition, so as not to make the situation more difficult. We were thanked for the sermons of the new Prime Minister of the Government and the pre-arranged accusations that the opposition was to blame for everything that was going to go wrong. The new government took pictures of the best masks that others were bloodthirsty. From this point forward, however, it has, in its own words, aligned everything with the objective of ensuring everything necessary for a successful fight against the epidemic. A key challenge for the government was dual: to prevent the rapid spread of infections and to provide protective equipment to everyone who needed it. Starting with the health system, homes for the elderly, emergency activities, production and general use, too much need to describe them briefly, so we narrowed them down - masks, disinfectants, fans, everything we can get. The goals, when we talk about the quantity of equipment purchased, may have been achieved by the Government. The way she chose to achieve the objective, and in particular the way she explained when facing allegations of irregularities, are the ones for which we are dealing with this interpretation today. As far as the Social Democrats are concerned, Minister Restoration was intertwined with his daily responses to well-founded findings. Allow me to state the key facts. First, the government, faced with a lack of protective equipment and chaos on the world market, decided to centralise procurement. She was charged with this by the so-called state warehouse, the Department of Commerce Reserves. It is rarely mentioned that the centralisation of procurement also meant a ban on procurement for all others. So many who, while engaged in the purchase of such equipment on a daily basis, were no longer allowed to do so. While they were burned out of work at the Department of Freight Reserves, the Government also acknowledges, but they had neither the knowledge nor the personnel needed to achieve the goal. No Government or institutions Department Minister Restoration of the Department of Trade Reserves did not provide assistance to which the experts mentioned above. Instead, they were sent in a form for a voucher of consultants with unclear powers. This was a government decision by the directors, which has been run for six years by the same minister – Minister Restoršek. Who, when, and why, has made this decision, we still don't know. Another time. The world market situation has led to high prices and supply risks. It was decided that this risk would not be addressed by an attempt at direct agreement with the authorities of the People’s Republic of China or by direct purchases from companies in China that were the main manufacturers of equipment. Instead, the risk has been passed on to Slovenian private individuals to ensure that the state will not pay advances for potentially unsupplied or even inadequate equipment. The Minister even publicly deceived the public that direct purchases from foreign suppliers were not possible, even though he was lied to by the President of the Court of Auditors. In this way, a whole range of private players have been released into the game without previous experience, whose only qualification was their own opinion that they were capable of delivering goods under such conditions. The consequences were chaos in the supply, inadequate and overpaid equipment, ex post charges, criminal charges. The media discovered that in some cases advances were still paid and that the Minister was directly involved in the proceedings on the phone. Do we really expect too much from the rulers if we ask for answers to the question why? After almost 2 months, neither Slovenian politics nor the public have the answer to a simple question: who and why has made such a decision? Third time. The decision to purchase through intermediaries is even more unusual if we know some other facts. Slovenia has good relations with the People’s Republic of China and its state summit. In establishing these relations, however, the Minister of Economic Affairs has played a key role in the past six years and has repeatedly publicly highlighted his economic and political ties in China. Slovenia has received at least one fair offer, for which even the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts has stood and the Chinese state authorities have participated. As is clear from academic information, Slovenia rejected the offer. She did not reject it because of the high price, inadequate quality, late delivery date – she rejected it in writing because there was no Slovenian intermediary. What was the real reason why the Republic of Slovenia did not make use of contacts with a friendly country in order to obtain the necessary equipment? There is no answer to that question either. Fourth time. Under the circumstances described, it was clear that a multitude of relief workers would appear. It was clear that suppliers and offers would differ greatly in order to check thousands of offers before they could even know if they were appropriate. Instead, we are still faced with data today that almost half of the 2,000 offers received by the Department of Freight Reserves have remained unattended. What key did the offers open up on? Why did some of them leave it closed? These were new questions. In response, we have received a government report and an abuse of parliamentary procedures, which is intended to bring the blame back to the past government and even to the opposition because it dared to ask a question and interfere with the government's work. One of the annexes to the government procurement report lists a scheme that is supposed to serve as an argument that the purchases of protective equipment have been organised and transparent, but a quick look at this scheme shows us that the system has been extremely complex and therefore imprudent and ineffective. In the given circumstances, this can even be understood. However, it is not possible to understand the response of the rulings, in the first place Minister Restovalska, to defend themselves against the obvious and questions in the manner they have chosen. Petič; Mr Restorska's Minister's burden is evident that he has sent co-ordinators to assist the Department of Freight Reserves. In fact, their designation is as vague as their powers. It simply cannot bear the excuse that they did not have any powers after the Minister allowed everyone else to believe in the full powers of the so-called coordinator, who at one point even had the official address of the Department of Freight Reserves. The fact that the so-called coordinator was not paid for his work and had no offer with any state institution is also a poor comfort. The former is proof that the Minister does not understand his position, Ministeral, well enough if he thinks that there is nothing wrong with unpaid advisers without contracts and unclear powers. Sixth; last but not least, the Minister has made it clear in recent months that he does not respect the Slovenian state apparatus and its employees. He publicly referred to a person who, because of his pressures, stood up to him as a paragraph. He made distasteful remarks about the insufficient rate of work of employees at the Department of Commerce Reserves, the institution at which he was 6 years of age or older, the Minister of State. The institution commissioned by the Government to carry out the most important and most important public procurement and for which the first to know what its abilities and limitations are. The Minister also showed disrespect for the democratic structure of this country and the rules applicable to everyone and everywhere. He responded to media disclosures on questions and the public and the opposition with a lofty and convinced that emergency measures allow for extraordinary measures. The conviction that there are circumstances in which there is no need to respect the law when all funds are allowed for the purpose. After all the responses to the media disclosures and questions, it is precisely this belief that the Minister, Mr Restovalšek, should not continue his mandate. The decisions he made may not have been entirely his and for a variety of people's responsibility must be sought with the Government as a whole. However, it was the minister who intervened in specific procedures and deceived the public. The Minister is the one who took photographs of the items he bought and hid on media issues. The Minister is a member of the Government, but if a member of the Government does not raise his voice when the Government makes bad decisions, he is responsible as a member of the Government and as a minister. In the interests of correctness, it must be acknowledged once again that the aim of fast purchases has been achieved – equipment has arrived in Slovenia. Only the belief that everything was in line with the rules is gone. The epidemic is over, and we are still working on clearing up a situation that the responsible cannot explain satisfactorily. We still have the exceptional circumstances that some have referred to, but unfortunately, they are mainly the result of government actions and there are fewer behaviours. [[Incomprehensible]] The most obvious disclosure in recent months is how much of the policy and unfortunately also to the public actually believes the Minister's testimony. That in crisis situations it is possible to ignore the rules, this is the most harmful consequence of the acquisition of protective equipment and, at the same time, the opportunity to deal with such thought, starting with the minister who demonstrated this thought to everyone. It would be wrong to say that the only one with such mentality is the most obvious representative of the people at this time, but at this point the most obvious representative of people who believe that in crisis situations we do not need rules and laws but more powerful with their team, who will use telephone calls to threaten and punch things in order. This way is what we read to the minister, just as we tell him the way in which he defended his perceptions and questions before the public, he avoided media encounters and sent his deputies to the National Assembly, who had tried their best but could not replace the Minister's political responsibilities. Your Honor! Laws cannot only apply in normal situations. Targets are not achieved by pressure on subordinates and threats. Public finances must also be treated prudently and transparently in crisis situations. When there is doubt, it is the first duty of the official to give a respectful and patient explanation of the circumstances. When Parliament calls the Minister to account, it must respond. Minister Restoration took the opportunity to face the applicants and to explain his point of view. At that time, he has not taken advantage of any of the opportunities offered to him to this day. On rare visits to this house, he remained silent. This also had an impact on our assessment of support for interpretation. And when the minister publicly mocks the opposition and the text of the interpretation compares with the high school file, when the minister accuses the opposition of making no contribution to the recovery of the state except for interpretation, it is time for the opposition to say that it plays its role, controls the authority and looks under the finger, raises questions, raises an alternative. A government that cannot bear this can't be a democratic government. The Minister, who is opposed to opposition issues, cannot be a minister of a democratic state. Constructiveness is not demonstrated by silence and viewing sides, constructiveness is shown when you are ready to admit, despite your own manufactured views, that he was at least partially right. Your Honor, in all this time since the intervention, the Minister has not admitted any error, no deviation from the rules, everything has been fine and everything is a conspiracy. We humans are not perfect, and we are already making mistakes in a much more normal situation. It would be logical to make mistakes, the fact that the Minister does not recognise any is clear evidence that he lacks fundamental self-criticism. WHEN he himself loses his grip on pressure, he puts the blame on the passages, the subordinates, and the opposition as well. If that's what this is supposed to be, then give up the minister's support. We do not deny him the ability and the merit of his efforts and sincere efforts to achieve his goal, but we tell him that he has forgotten the laws, the rules and the utmost respect for all who do not agree with him. We're telling him that he ignored the procedures and tried to use shortcuts that don't have a place in the state of law. Together with other members of the Government, it is responsible for an untransparent procurement system that prevents verification of the facts and has enabled the participation of unverified tenderers, the supply of inadequate equipment, non-transparent procedures, excessive margins and the length of the clearance of questions that do not receive an answer. Your Honor! The Minister is not the first or only one responsible for the situation. There are many representatives in Slovenian politics and the public, who are not important to them in achieving their goals, who are proud to do so, build even their capital, their belief that there are too many red tape, regulations and paragraphs in Slovenia is similar in the belief of heroes of old action films that nothing is achieved under the rules. At least in crisis situations, we need to take matters into our hands and act as we think. However, Minister Restoration is the most exposed symbol of thought and action, which has plagued the country for decades, that bureaucrats and paragraphists are guilty of all things, and that everything can be arranged for enough testimony and even punches at the table. This is what the Social Democrats strongly reject. This is also the main reason why Minister Restorationšek has lost our trust, so in the Group of Social Democrats we will support the proposal of interpretation against the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mr Počvalska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. Proposer Robert Pavšič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u24	On behalf of the proposer, there are several candidates. Today we have heard again a whole series of manipulations and I will not go into commenting positions, but one thing I must stress. Today, the minister thanks health workers for their work. This is the least hygienic move of your own thanks to the real Slovenian proverb under the table all in terms of distraction. Why was this appreciation not known in a slightly more tangible form? So I know a specific case when the nurse for work from 13 March to 15 May all received 500 Euro of supplement, although you promised me no bonuses and I don't know what else for good two months besides you forgot about the caregivers in the homes of older citizens who were there employed through public works, but they didn't even get you any extras but it's funny because probably the camera doesn't show you now, it's funny to you. No, you didn't save other people's lives. You are not even fair enough to at least partially reward those who have really sacrificed and possibly their health and family life and all. No more important is the moralization and constant repetition of mantras I understand about the position, but now we go to the facts, to the numbers. You haven't answered a single question, not substantively, simply by denying that you're not guilty, no data, no justifications just a naked denial, I'm not, I'm not. You gave us a heartwarming story about how you saved lives or stopped the victims, as we expected. If I were very intent on reminding you of nursing homes, you did not prevent the victims, you did not use fans of this excessive number of fans for the elderly. But let's just leave it at that. Homes aren't today's theme. I don't even know what to say to you based on your response to the interpretation, because in your performance you didn't say anything substantive, that we were just doing the design for you and for the people. Seriously, are you kidding me or not? It's understandable what I know, but you don't know that we know that there's going to be a lot more going on today. That the purchased equipment cost 62 million you said today. What information did you take into account, Mr. Minister? What did you add up the completed orders, partially completed, in progress, a call for fulfillment, huh? Because if I add it up, it's going to be 108 million and not 62, what should I count down? You said this equipment wouldn't be for more than 80 million, how do you know what's already written down on those big orders published by the Department of Commerce Reserves? Which won't be fulfilled, which order, please explain. Looking at the table of 5 June 2020, we have 21 million and a half contracts partially completed for 26 million and almost 27 million in progress for 29 million, a call for 30, 31 million totalling 108 million. Another question is, how many of these orders were cancelled only after the media disclosures about the works? Your numbers have been very dynamic since March 13th and you only use those that fit you most. I've listed everything here, you can choose the one that suits you most, and I believe you will. In the meantime, you have come to understand that before Slovenia there is a great time of both large and inclusive and economic uncertainty, and your concern is for business and jobs, and you still find everything funny. Why are you waiting? I will remind you of only one inconclusive or completely inoperable solution, namely liquidity loans with the State guarantee. You are the minister who explained at the Chamber of Commerce that the measure, I quote, has not been brought to life and you will request a supplement. It hurts. It pains you more than it is obvious that you are not recognized as a savior than someone who deserves it. You're in pain that you're not a hero, that he's a hero in the eyes of Ivan Gale's people, so you had to discredit him today, too, to make an insulted complaint. That's what you said all about yourself, not him. With regard to the number 168, this is going to spill over and over again today, you said you might be talking about veterinary fans. Are you kidding me again? So who do you think we are? I mean, that's actually humiliating. I'm talking about fans that had health care facilities, otherwise it doesn't make any sense. [[…]] You were talking about a compromised market with protective equipment, about daily market changes, that you were forced to react. You said you were having an argument about it. In principle, there would be no dispute if there were no overpayments of the least appropriate fans, overpaid the mask, your personal intervention, threats, pressures. You, as well as the leader of your parliamentary group, have pointed out that you have done your best as you knew and knew, because that is probably the problem, because you have not been in touch with the situation, but the consequences will be taken or not, that is your decision and partly decide this National Assembly, but we already see where the dog is praying. Neither did you comment on the fact that there were at least 404 pieces of fans in the country on 13 March. March 13th, at least 404, because we have not yet received data from UKC Maribor, so take your time now, today we have at our disposal a good twelve hours, thirteen hours, I am without glasses, thank you Tina. Get your information and give us your opinion today, because given the numbers we hear from the government in any way during the treatment of protective and medical equipment, you are, if I very kindly express yourself, creative-dynamic and therefore I cannot believe you until this is black and white, and not with your signature, because then I also don't believe it, and I will return to that. We are going to the Commission to monitor public finances and to report to the media until 25 May. You said today, I quote: “We also do not want to know today that there were only 168 fans available in Slovenia in mid-March that were suitable for the treatment of the coronary virus.” Commission for Public Finance Supervision, meeting date, 5 May, hearings, report on government procurement. You were not on this committee, but you were represented by your Secretary of State, and this is how he says: “I think 168 was in Slovenia at the time, and it continues, and now here are some things that also appear in the media, and first of all what we have heard today that we have not received a clear list of what Slovenia actually needs to obtain. We got it from the Ministry of Health. Here's 16. 3. the first of which is written also clearly, 100 additional fans and then a few more in between, the Italian script, more than 200 fans.” On then an explicit question, once again, your secretary of state, who then represented you with the authority, replied: “Our information said that 168 respirators had already been used before the crisis and before these additional deliveries, something not to say most of them had already been spent. And again, we're going to need a hundred or more. That was May 5th, you know how much media reporting was until then, in fact, in our country of fans. For example, on March 25, foreign media writes: “Slovenia has 168 fans, local engineers are developing new models » We only have 168, total. [[…]] Then, the Regional Coast reports: “Before the outbreak of the Corona virus, according to Health Minister Tomaž Gantar in the country, along with the military reserves of 168 medical fans, of which 20 or 30 were free to use,” they report on 31 March. 24ur reports: “If we are talking about key equipment such as fans, this is only slightly above the current number of confirmed fans, 168 fans are in Slovenia, today the clinical centre has received approval from the Ministry of Supply 50 new,” said the Civil Protection Commander Srečko Šestan. According to Gantar, we had 168 again, of which 20 to 30 were useful for covid patients, as the colleague had already discussed in his position. If you do not believe mainstream media, as you tell them, democracy reports on May 1st: “The Sharcha government has left the warehouse empty. New Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar pointed out at the parliamentary hearing that Slovenia has 168 fans, of which only 20 or 30 are free.” That's funny, isn't it? But I made a perfect break so your colleagues could manipulate my video, so you'll understand. But you don't understand how many fans you have, not how many you had on March 13th, not how many you have today, not how many you had on May 31st. This is just a few of the pressures on the button in the offices where fans are misled as a basic asset, and every good master, each good director has his own assets well counted, by how old the “machine” is, whether it is still useful or ready to write off and so on. I really want to know how many fans we have in Slovenia right now, because how many of them we have, you have no idea, this has turned out already. Today you also said, among other things: “I reject the public’s allegations of fraud on the basis of the legal basis for ordering, purchasing and supplying protective equipment, which follows from point 2. In view of objectively unpredictable circumstances, the reliability of supply chains, interrupted transport routes and uncontrollable supply risks, Slovenia has consciously decided to purchase protection equipment under Article 46 of the Public Procurement Act.” Nobody's telling you this, nobody's telling you this. However, what the Journal reports on April 2nd is that you are as reasons why the trade with Synopharma cannot be carried out because we do not have a legal basis. “In addition, the company also requested a 100 % advance payment, which is not being used by the Department of Trade Reserves, since the possibility of fraud and unsecured supplies makes it pay only after the acquisition.” It's served, but it's only served when you say it, or you probably wouldn't. “Slovenia has entered into 59 contracts for the purchase of protective equipment, prepayments were made only in five, all adequately secured by a bank guarantee or one with the company’s assets.” Well, for one, I have information that there was only 50% of the guarantee, and the other he gave with the property, of course, but with the assets from the advance you ordered. And then we're not talking about protectionism. We're talking about customerism. Today you also said very strongly: “We are not a country with an aggressive and strong diplomatic and lobbying network.” Yeah, thank God we're not like that, with an aggressive no. But we do have a good diplomatic network. That's what I'm sure of. And that we have good connections with other countries can also confirm your Secretary of State, who has worked for many years on interstate connections. In the critical days when our warehouses were completely empty, we were saved, among other things, by a donation that Mr. Alexander Cheferin managed to arrange and a large shipment of equipment lent to us by the Czech Republic. But you weren't even so good as to thank me today for two Chinese donations. Did you deliberately release them? Did you just make a mistake? At least one donation is even in the government's procurement report. The other has miraculously disappeared, but I will return to this in one of my future ads, that I will not ask you too many questions at once. Where are the Chinese donations? Well, I hope you don't get caught up in the first place. There were two of them. I know about two. And finally, not for the first time, Mr Gallet's discredit, you say in it, because we, who already know him or who we know, know that he is hiding in one equally receptive story in the same way before responsibility. If this was about fences, then this story is very good and they recognized your mode of operation and tried to protect themselves in advance. And here I, at least in this part, can fully trust them. The credibility of the data demonstrated by whistleblowers of the Department of Reservoir would not be divulged. And as to your credibility, there are still a lot of questions. I'll tell you everything in advance. We still have plenty of time today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has Franz Resec to prepare Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present. Today's interpretation against Minister Restoration seems more like an expression of some resentment or some resentment from the past. Above all, I would say that in one of the same breaths it seems like some kind of defense of the former government or of the previous president. In his reply to the interpretation and also to today's performance, the Minister gave some facts. And if I sum it up a little bit, it's just, I'd say, two key facts are. Warehouses were empty and the threat to the scale of the epidemic in the absence of action. IT SAYS that if you have these two marginal conditions you require of this something. That you act and that these measures are effective and also swift. And that was done. As far as this transparency is concerned, it is clear, as has been mentioned too often, that the Government itself has requested the Court of Auditors and all these proceedings are under review. The Minister himself stressed once again that all these orders were not later than 48 hours on this portal. That's where the public was informed. So much so that it's kind of hard to read here after that. Then we've also tracked several times in these media about these terrible millions. Well, today we've witnessed a number of 62 million, which is, I would say, much lower than the one that's just spinning around in the media, because it's better to write some number 200 million because you can have a longer story than you could say 62 million. It's just a short story. I cannot lose the feeling that this interpretation is more of a media spin or, I would say, a search for the attention of the current opposition to the ruling coalition. But we can also look for these reasons for this interpretation in the minister at any other point. That the resignation of the President of the Government and this one, I would say, failed adventure in the early elections that, in my opinion, also caused some fear of some of the networks that, we know, are powered through these or budgetary items or some other way of servicing the country. And here I think that's one reason we have this interpolation today. Then it's also obvious that it's being given to this one, I'd say, some left-wing thing is going on, I'd say, a competition of who's going to be that leader of this opposition. That each party wants to put its leader at the forefront, and now it looks more like some kind of competition between the parties that will ever play that key role. Now, if we get to the third point, this is a pain to the opposition, but perhaps they will come to the government once again that the current government is working successfully. [[Incomprehensible]] [[Incomprehensible]] The real measures of the current government are successful, we would say, one of the most successful countries in the area of fighting against this COVID-19 virus and that these measures were successful, but that was based on these facts when some laws were passed and these laws proved to be, I would say, very effective. Now, we've also seen that maybe we don't have the prospect of doing so, I would say the decline in economic growth, but the forecasts are, I'd say more favourable, which, I'd say, is very positive that we can do all these obligations, and that, too, I'd say this part of the revenue side is a little more favourable, I'd say climate or more, I'd say, a better feeling. [[Incomprehensible]] Now, in these laws that the government has proposed, there was also one law, which, I would say, is, I mean, one proposal, which is very, very much, I would say important. The government is aware, and I also think that Mr Restorsek himself, without his own production of protective equipment and protective equipment, you cannot control the market. If you don't have this own production, you can't control the prices, because it's either the Chinese or the Japanese or the neighboring country. [[Incomprehensible]] And here I think it is a good step to devote resources to start this protective equipment in Slovenia itself and to say and other equipment to produce. After all, we have seen that in this crisis the Slovenian nation is innovative, that it has ideas and that, I would say, at home, they are found. And this needs to be exploited, because at the end of the day the protective equipment can also then export and come back again, I would say, the actual positive effects on the budget. Now I would say, all these measures the government has taken and has, I would say, a positive light, or some effect on the economy. And if we compare our economy perhaps to other economies, our economy, I would say, did not suffer the consequences such as these, I would say, other economies. And here, given that we are a country dependent on exports and if we have, we will keep our economy in some good condition, we will have the opportunity to as soon as possible, to say markets where we mostly export, to recover that we can, to say our economy would start again and thereby increase economic growth and also other things from the inflows of cash and so on. Now I'm going to finish my discussions, I'm going to say a little bit, but I would say that I think they're just in front of the minister, I'd say a lot more of the challenges that await us in the economy if we want the economy to recover as quickly as possible than this today's interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is given by Edward Paulic, who is to be prepared by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman. In my debate, I will limit myself to just one part of the readings that weigh you down, Mr. Minister. And that's the story of the number of fans and their controversial acquisitions. At the time of interpolation, you advised us to check all the facts available, although you well knew that these facts were neither available to the public nor to the opposition. Although some of them were able to be searched by investigative journalists, to this day we have been able to get to the real numbers that point to your uneconomic behavior. And even though we have heard these numbers today, I will repeat them again, because they represent some kind of original sin of the entire structure regarding the purchase of fans. The fact is, you've been fooling around with data on the number of fans in the country since the beginning. If I go in line. On 13 March, by the then Minister of Health candidate Tomaž Gantar at the hearing before the mother committee, we were able to hear that we have 168 fans in the country. On April 30th, State Secretary Jelka Godec announced that there were no fans in the state. I quote her statement: "And like Minister Restorationšek said, we were on zero – no fans – and it was necessary to get it as soon as possible". However, in the government's procurement report of 5 May we can re-trace the information that 168 fans were available on 12 March. And what else does the report contain? Data that UKC Maribor had no fan available. The second largest hospital in the country was supposed to have no fan and respected coalition, and you confirmed this report in the National Assembly. It was the one and only truth for two and a half months and then Minister Gantar happened. In response to the question of the actual number of fans at the cut-off date of 13 March, however, he admitted at the end of May, he may have confessed, in short, he said that the fans were 281, so 113 more than you claimed and cheated for two and a half months. And Mr Restoration, I propose that you and Minister Gantar agree on which number is the right one. And if I keep going. According to the Public Information Access Act, we obtained information from hospitals about how many fans they actually had on the cut day, March 13th, and if I expose UKC Ljubljana, they had 243 fans, of which 58 children. And you wrote in the government report that they had all 18 fans. Thus, there were several fans in just one office, as the Government cited and deceived in its report, in which it operated with the number 168. And if I give you a total number of fans at Slovenian hospitals, on day 13. 3. – 404 fans without UKC Maribor, which has not yet delivered data to us, and since this is the second largest hospital in the country, this number is likely to be close to 500. At least 220 fans were suitable for the treatment of Covid patients at the end of March. A significantly different number, therefore, as you state in your report, which you have confirmed by the coalition Members. So we had three times as many fans on the cut date, March 13. And if we ask ourselves today why such confusion and deception, when you once operated with such ones, the second time with different numbers. We can assume that you manipulated the number of fans to create a vision of an emergency. You created an alibi to buy a large amount of fans, under high time pressure. And then, here is all the experience and ingenuity of the government, how it wanted to fence itself against every responsibility, regarding the acquisition of protective equipment, but still maintain its influence on the procedures and choice of suppliers. First of all, you have transferred the competence to the Human Resources and Professional Undernutrition Department for the execution of orders and the purchase of protective equipment. This caused confusion, as the protective equipment was supplied by the health services themselves. Then you set up an inter-resortary government task force, and another one that helped the institution, because you found that the institution was far from able to do its job. The task of the working group was also to review the tenders. We know that only a good half of the tenders received have been examined and I wonder if this is a coincidence and then some of the members of the working group helped the institution with calls, e-mails, visits, threats. In addition to the members of the working group, the institution was assisted by influential politicians, including you, Mr Minister, with that call. And if I touch another one of your most repeated excuses, you say you didn't sign any contracts and that all the contracts were signed by the Department of Commerce Reserves. Formally, this is legal, but once again, today we are talking about political responsibility, and it is also important that the Department of Stocks falls under the auspices of your Ministry, and the Minister is the one who is objectively responsible for the actions or events resulting from the conduct of his subordinates. In addition, the Ministry of Every Business, which was concluded by the Department of Commerce Reserves, gave express consent. And why did you, Mr. Minister, direct orders to pay 100% of the advance to Geneplanet without a bank guarantee, even though at the time you've been stressing that there won't be any advances? And why was it so urgent to conclude this business if we know that the time frame for the fulfillment of the contract later extended? Perhaps it was in a hurry not to join the common European order of fans at extremely favourable prices? Mr. Minister, did it not even bother you that you have bypassed your work to warn you that the country is buying for patients with COVID 19 inadequate fans who were three times more expensive than the right ones, and you did not take note of these warnings? This, the Minister-designate, certainly represents uneconomic behaviour and requires political responsibility. I would like to point out that you had an alternative, Minister, no doubt. Alternatives were economic purchases of suitable and case-by-case fans without enriching individuals. We could go directly to the manufacturer's equipment order. We could accept the offer of the Nanjing region of China, which offered fans at the price of EUR 13,500. The alternatives were purchased through a joint public contract under the auspices of the European Commission, the invitation to tender would have been published on 17 March, one day before the signing of the contract with Geneplanet. Slovenia could get 300 Bellavista fans at 13,820 euros per piece, which are not only suitable, but also three times cheaper than the inadequate Siriusmed R30 Geneplanet fans. And why do I bother to buy fans from Geneplanet? According to the expert group’s assessment, these fans were considered as the last choice, and only if additional equipment for their upgrade was collected. Among all the offers were the most expensive and the additional equipment was not the subject of the contract at all. Your political responsibility, Mr Restoration, is more than obvious today and I think we should step down on our own. This would reflect some degree of political hygiene, which some politicians obviously lack.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Let's get the mags ready. Branislav Rajic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! I don't know what Charec left behind, what he left behind, what he left behind. On 4 May, I addressed to the Government the very simple question of what stocks were urgently needed protection equipment from 2000 onwards in the warehouses of the Slovenian Institute of Stocks and I received a short answer, I have no problems with it, I do not need to be a long load, only from 2006 onwards. Why? The Institute of the Republic of Slovenia had no security reserves until 2006, and now it could be the first Janša government, two years away because it was decentralised. At that time, a few small purchases, a good thousand surgical masks, FFP3 2006, a good 1.7 million gloves, 5,000 overalls, and two and a half tons of disinfectants, to which these surgical masks fell to 400, remained roughly the same, during the second Janša government, there were only 200 of these surgical masks in the stores, and more importantly, that someone was working a 13-hour shift, and that you changed for two and a half hours, for how many people, for which 2014 is a little perfect, 2015 due to the migration crisis of the surgical mask and gloves fall down and then these quantities are here until the epidemic is identical. The only thing growing in the middle is this tonsion of disinfectants a few more overalls. These are some sort of facts. If we want to fight back, we can nail all governments to a pranger, including first and second, when he was Prime Minister Janša. Now I'm going to continue with a quote, and the quote goes like this: "To be in a revolution was freedom. Freedom from all the standards of the rooms of his freedom, which was justified in extreme exposure to mortality."The beginning of the sentence is one of them, Dušan Pirjevec remembered. These are the words of Dušan Pirjevac from the book Jožet Pirjevac Partizani. It's about events that happened 78 years ago at the same time as this story about masks. In the history of the U.N.B., we know this as the so-called left-wing deviation, or partisan dukedom. This affair that we have now could be referred to as a radical right-wing deviation and the dukedom of a minister who is already a third term in the same ministry and this government. Fighting for an epidemic is no excuse for your work. The fight for the epidemic has basically been won by citizens and citizens. Based on very simple measures, which have not changed much in the time of Venice, the Dubrovnik Republic is called hygiene. That's it. Now in the position of SDS - up in the office I listened - the wording was somehow so that direct orders from China and from Chinese companies were not possible. On the other hand, Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina are the only exceptions to these orders; all others have ordered directly and mainly or through ministries where health is written in the address or through other institutions, the authorities of the country where you will also find this word, then all other European countries are impossible if I somehow bring the logic to the end. I personally think the minister knows why you should step down. You have spoken and even boasted that you have transferred the entire risk of purchases to the suppliers. The Christian Mother Economic Minister is the last one to say ah in times of crisis, because as a country, I hardly care, but if a Slovenian company is angry about what this “friendly fire” collateral damage is. Those are your words. And in these - what you in particular called the former secretary of state - we would now be in the war. You're supposed to protect them somehow. Then this story that you've written even if the mask that's in the middle of the window still protects us in the quarter - I don't want to be rude - but when you were in the responsible function we first met in your thermals, if you say, well if the pool runs out at half a water in one night it's still a pool in which you can swim a quarter. I'm just logically listening to you think about these crazy things that we're going through. Good margins, profits, colleagues from LMŠ spoke here, if some tutors are word ventilators I was concerned about five reincarnations admitting it I will not use it if two, three times overpaid is not yet appropriate if it turns out to be some margins that go over 100%, I mean, if it's not a war profit, then I really don't know what it is. Now it's coming out of your essentially bullying, arrogant backsliding media, and we've cooked this up in the opposition, and it's Mr. Gale who's after you something over irresponsible lazy people who escape to the hospital. Wait, there are some measures of arrogance, then we have our economy ahead of real challenges and so on. But here I agree with that column of Miha Mazzini. You're the beautiful five-year fat cow MGRT minister. The Ministry's description states “economic development and technology”. The vast majority of the first term of office were drifting with that smart specialization strategy, which is still such a bad one - I will quote you - the high school file, although I really don't get to know high school writings. And that's also the reason for the resignation, but you know. Because in the 21st century, I understand the economy ministry as a ministry dealing with economic development and technology. As that award-winning firm from Lendava said, how we're going to work with our heads, then only with our hands to make some products, so that we can have a bigger GDP, so that we can all have a better life. And in all the three governments you've been in, you haven't quite achieved that. I'm not going to say you didn't do anything, away from this, every minister of course does something, but MGRT isn't some kind of bargaining your-ours, one satisfied, the other dissatisfied, let's save the company from mom, let's give the cousin a kick, let's let some deserving very rich pensioner call his daughter's checkout. But you know, here, these are two insanely different ideologies between the current opposition, probably with the exception of some part of the opposition that wants to sue me now, and that coalition, right? You're like, yes, you know who the duke is, then you're the duchess, now we're at the trough, the finance minister when he's in the opposition collapses, now we're going to be babbling like we're going to be babbling – that's your ideology. And then you read to the opposition "what are you doing, you're going to interpolate." Since the country’s inception, there have been 43 interpretations, 21 of which have been submitted by the SDS. Good morning, Slovenia. I'll get it over with.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Minister Zdravko Restoršek asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. Now, the point of the LMSH is that I'm a puppet and an enforcer of orders. I can't help but be obsessive about what I just said and how I did what someone else told me to do. What I was in the previous two governments, I am now. It's true that I'm a member of the team, sometimes I'm back, sometimes I'm left wing, playmaker, center, but I'm always part of the team, and I'll keep doing that. And the goals of my team are also my goals and our team's arrangements are also my agreements. And now, if you find that hard to understand, I even understand that because you're used to the way someone directs or directs one person and the other playing. Now, with regard to the evidence of the transfer of responsibility. In view of the exceptional volume of tenders received, the Government appointed an Interdepartmental Working Group on 24 March to ensure faster verification of the adequacy of these offers and the security verification of security equipment providers. This group consisted of nine representatives from six departments. And the Interdepartmental Working Group has already set up a protocol at its first meeting with a view to improving the transparency of the tasks and operations of the group, setting out precisely the procedure for the procurement of protective equipment and clearly defining the tasks of individual national institutions and defining the procedure for the acquisition of protective equipment. And since warehouses were empty at the time of the outbreak, quick access to equipment was virtually impossible. The Ministry also appointed a project team to coordinate and implement the procurement of protective equipment or equipment to the Office on 25 March to provide as soon as possible supplies of protective equipment and assistance. This is not a matter of additional procurators, but because the institution was set up to take care of this energy and food sector also in the event of war, additional human resources assistance was needed at that time because of the strong supply of different providers or because of a large number of which you have also talked about many different offers that needed to be processed. The Ministry also appointed Mr Galet, who was in charge of legal support and the performance of the tasks, to the project group, with the desire for proper, good and, in particular, creative cooperation. The Task Force was also a member of the Task Force, which you mention, but did not have the power to make decisions, but were appointed in short, in the group, to assist in the coordination and implementation of the procurement of protective equipment as soon as possible. [[…]] The project group is engaged to assist the institution in its operational tasks in the supply of protective equipment. They did not have the authority to conduct procedures, they were external operational aid. And if you look well, because I see that you are well informed that all the contracts signed at the Institute have been signed by three leading staff of the Institute and among them Mr Gale, who has signed quite a few important contracts. He was not an ordinary labor force, but he was at the time of the Director's absence, because of Covid's infection, named by him to represent him and run the institution and he had the opportunity all along, what I also said in the opening speech, that whatever was wrong, he would not sign, prevent the signature, because we did not do anything on our side and even when you were talking about my influence over the phone, about signing something, at the moment that I talked about that something had to be done, that contract had been signed for a long time. It was about securing business in China, not the company. This company already had a contract with the institution and this contract was signed by one of the leading employees of the institution. So, I had nothing to do with them getting this deal and taking a good look at it and also listen to those phone conversations so that you know how to connect all the things that go together. Of course, otherwise you can continue to deceive. Something about direct purchases. Now, about the fact that the agency can't carry out direct financial transactions to China, you've never heard of this from me, and you keep doing it so many times already that I have to check it out myself, things back, whether I've ever said anything like that, and I've done my best, and I haven't, not by memory, not by the newspapers, found any such statements of mine. Of course you're talking about the newspapers writing, talking about some of my co-workers making this statement, but I'm here to tell you that I never said that. Prepayments and direct purchases. As regards direct purchases, no decision or other binding document has ever been adopted. You didn't hear that from me either. This was only a rational decision and the only meaningful decision as a result of the situation in the protection equipment market. Now, if you don't get into business, but you don't know that, at the moment that it's impossible to get goods from an area that's 8,000 kilometers away, it's impossible to get goods, it's impossible to travel there, even if you found out, it would be quarantined there, it's all that you're asking is irrelevant. Also, a statement, received, stating that one country has done so. I know only two major countries that have done this matter directly, everything else is a delusion. We didn't have the resources to do that. Most suppliers demanded 100 % of the advance, the risk of such transactions was too high and they could threaten the state budget in advance, as has been the case in a number of countries. The government paid for the equipment in advance, and the equipment never received it, and so we decided on the way it provided us two: the first time that we got the goods, and the second time that we didn't lose the money. And for that I have all the responsibility I need, I have no fear here. Today, I don't know which June to talk about the situation between March 13th and April 10th, but it's funny, the way you do it. And even when you talk about the prices of profit, you're ridiculous. Yes, masks in normal situations cost 10 cents, but we didn't get them at the time, not us, not the neighbours, no one in the European Union. You were talking about purchasing through the European Commission. That's what we did, too, but we wouldn't get the fans until one year later. Here was the main role of the time component, because at the time we had to provide protective resources, mainly of masks, and fans, however, I already don't like this word from my mouth. We have tried or made intermediaries or suppliers for export papers, certificates, customs, equipment takeover in China and equipment to Europe. These were not simple matters. China changed the rules overnight. We didn't have the resources or the knowledge to do that. Of course, there are a lot of experts working with China now. Like many suppliers who thought the equipment would be easy to deliver, the reality in practice was completely different. LRM - this is a fan company - for example, as instructed by Brazilian President Bolsonar because of the great need for fans in Brazil, 10 ordered and already paid fans were seized by the manufacturer. This company received a prepayment from us for the purchase of fans, but because they did not deliver them, they were a prepayment to the Institute on 15. 4. 2020 returns. Also due to supply difficulties, MESI, development of medical devices, d.o.o. None of the suppliers could respect delivery deadlines and prices, except in the case of larger orders, as in the case of France, for over a billion pieces of masks or Italy for more than 100 million masks. These two countries separately leased the entire production of major producers for several months and protected all products in their own warehouses with their security guards until they sent them home with their own aircraft. The institution could not carry out such a thing, and they have repeatedly highlighted it. As far as the readings relating to the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art are concerned. First of all, I would like to point out that I appreciate the efforts of the SAZU institution and Mr Emri with regard to the possible supply from Nanjing Province. However, the offer of the SAZU facility was one of all the offers received for the supply of protective equipment. It was somewhat unusual, since the institution should conclude a contract with the Chinese province, not with a commercial provider of protective equipment. On the basis of an up-to-date list of needs for medical and technical means requested by the MGRT, the SAZU submitted an offer to the MGRT which was subsequently revised and retransmitted. Mr Emri was repeatedly explained that a contract with the manufacturer or the Nanjing region and the export papers should be arranged. Certificates, customs payments, the acquisition of equipment in China and equipment had to be taken into account in Slovenia. We couldn't do that, even as a state, because we didn't have the resources to do it. These are the tasks they have taken over in other transactions by the suppliers of the protective equipment with which the institution has concluded contracts. MGRT also called on Mr Emri to try to find an importer willing to do so. We also offered to help him organize the transport of equipment because we had already reached the point of establishing an air bridge and free use of the storage of our logistics centre Quingdao in China. It is also important to say that we bought all the equipment we bought in principle delivered and paid for in Slovenia, not in Chinese. This is where there was a huge difference at the time. If someone has offered some equipment, and when you speak, be silent as to whether this could have been brought to Slovenia, this is the first matter to be cleared up. The second one, which you also need to consider, is the time for delivery. One is to talk about acquisitions between March 13th and April 10th, and then a little, come on, by April 20th, while the other is the prices at which barantes are at the end of April all May. Therefore, I must say this to the SAZU in this matter, that the offer for protective equipment provided for successful supplies, which would mean that the delivery deadlines would be significantly longer, although the offer was not complete, and you keep saying that it is, we immediately sent it from the Ministry to the inter-departmental working group and conducted countless interviews with Mr Embry. Therefore, the claim that we rejected the offer was false and properly reviewed and forwarded further. I repeat that, and now, if we're going to play this game, we can do this until the end of this interpolation. Number of fans. The Department of Health has obtained information on the condition and number of fans in the Republic of Slovenia as well as the needs for their purchase. Now, according to our data, there are 281 million of them, but the key thing you're deceiving is that there are only 168 fans that are suitable for treating patients with COVID-19. That's not my information. These are the data we received from the Ministry of Health. You can continue to distribute how many of these fans there are, both of which are different. We have received these two informations and we have based all matters on this, it is said, in decisions for further purchases that 168 fans are such that are suitable for the health of patients with a rug. This is me repeating myself, repeating my Secretary of State, and you can find out that there were a thousand, but the fans were one and the other. If I don't say it here, we will, I'll save you another thing to go on. In March, the Ministry of Health assessed the fan needs between 200 and 400 and the Department of Freight Reserves supplied a total of 148. Why Ginplanet or Geneplant for fans, anyway. Let me explain that at the time the fan contracts were signed, this was around 18 March, the situation again was significantly different than it is now. At that time, the time and time of delivery was crucial for all transactions, and whatever you say, I will expect you on time and time of delivery and related price. It is said that we have been under pressure to implement the contract or supply as soon as possible. At the time of 16. 3. However, until the establishment of the Interdepartmental Working Group, the Ministry has recorded the receipt of approximately 50 different structured offers, both for fans and other additional equipment. The Interdepartmental Working Group later received two more offers for fans: Interpart, Medical and Mesi Medical. In view of the fact that 323 fans have already been ordered by the agency at the time of the establishment of the Interdepartmental Working Group, no further review of the tenders was carried out. The contracts with the first four suppliers were concluded within the first days of the outbreak and the delivery deadlines were decided in particular. Since you quoted me after my visits to such and different media, I said several times that we had bought fans that were available when the need was clearly expressed. Prices for fans who are lower and delivery hands, which were six months or a year later, were not real to us. And also the European Union's offer or invitation to tender enabled the purchase of fans, but we booked, I think at that competition, we booked, we didn't buy, 300 fans, it would only be next year. There's something else about technical fitness that you've also said a lot about. The team of Dr. Night did not confirm the fans of LRM, RAM 2, Gorenje, Interpart and Messi. Dr. Podbregar confirmed the technical suitability of Geneplanet fans. Once again, in masks and fans, it was a key time component and today to speak all these things without connection, but it is simply misleading. Earlier in the opening speech, the representative of Levi explained that the equipment was spent, what you said, Mr. Member, honourable Member, between 180 and 200 million. Once again, it has been clear and loudly stated on the screens that the amount today is 62 million, that in my response to the interpolation is 42 million. These are the numbers that have been reached. However, the contracts that have been signed will never be implemented, because suppliers could not do so and they withdrew from these contracts, so I would ask you not to deceive any more about these numbers 120, 180 and 200. And I am responsible for saying that the number that I said in the introduction will be the highest possible number for the realisation of what is currently in force. So when we talk about this number 200, it never worked like that, the exact number is 183 million all signed but cancelled contracts, and once again, we wrote, it was 62 million. I will conclude by stressing once again that when you are assessing what you are assessing, take into account the time component of March 13th, April 10th, when it was not possible to get to Slovenia either by car or with problems and when prices were completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Member Robert Pavšič asks for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I mean, things are getting really interesting right now. You missed something, and I heard it very well, or you said it on purpose, but I'll get back to it later. Let's get to the numbers first. You're manipulating again. I never said 200 million. However, I took the report of the Department of Trade Reserves on their complex side, how many contracts have been implemented, how many are under way and how many have been called for implementation and totalling 108 million. These are official information from your office under your interferenceJa, you can nod off, the Department of Commerce Reserves is interfering with the Ministry of Economy. When did you say that the state cannot directly represent or purchase from companies abroad? Dnevnik, 2 April, reports, but Slovenia cannot carry out direct financial transactions to China, as it can only deal with Slovenian suppliers, "this is not a decision by this Government, but is a matter of applicable legislation", explained the Ministry of Economics. Then you are not an economic minister now, unless you have responded to these statements and requested a denial. We're already in the middle of June today. You've had two months of denial or at least rehabilitation of what you said. It's just been good for you for a while, but something's not. And every time you talk about the numbers of one new thing you serve. At the end of March, you said, maybe I overheard, by the end of April, it was an estimate that we needed 200 to 400 fans. Yes, wait, your secretary, who replaced you with the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, who dealt with the report, said we need between 100 and 200 new fans, trainers. Does that mean he was talking? I doubt it. Or maybe you're not communicating at all because it's obvious that you're not communicating with anyone. Not with the Ministry of Health, not with your secretary, but you haven't even communicated with us in the last month. You showed up here once and then read yours and left. And then you wonder why we're so suspicious of you, why we doubt it. Yes, whatever we have received so far from the Ministry of Economy or from your reports has ultimately proved to be at least non-creditable. Your report, which is part of your response to the interpolation, discusses the list of bids for fans on Day 17. Three, there's no SAZU in here. But you will have a selective, of course, very hurrying. Now I'm going to say, but now I'm going to move on to what was very interesting. The government report mentions that on 17 March GenePlanet offered to supply 220 Siriusmed air 30 fans at the price of 39 thousand 249,20 euros, following the next dynamic. First delivery on 23 March, then on 30 March, etc. Quoted from your report, which is an integral part of the response to this interpolation. Now, just a moment ago, you said that this deal between GenePlanet and Siriusmed had already been concluded. But you had an offer on March 17th. And not at the Department of Commerce. You had this offer at the Ministry of the Economy. I have proof here, e-mail, Marko Bitenc writes to Aleša Cantarutti and others, Andrei Potočnik, interestingly, Andrei writes on gmail, not on the official address. Of course, because at the time your Interdepartmental Commission had not yet been established. That was March 17th. And until then, it was a little different, a little bit of homework. “I am sending another offer, in a round that is supposed to be confirmed today, lock it in a clip. Respirators are now waiting in the warehouse and can be delivered in 3 days." 17. March 18th, what did you do? Pick up the phone, called Zakroška: “Betinac must get this deal. You pay now." But if you don't understand everything now, then I don't know when you'll be. And we're gonna go one more step back, maybe. Let us remember the beginning of this year, when you've been charging us with all kinds of prangers, that we're giving the necessary masks to China as a matter of urgency. And we explained a hundred times, a million 200 thousand masks bought a private Swiss company, and the country approached with a quarter coverage of transport costs to deliver this protective equipment to China. And the People's Republic of China was grateful for that. And what did she do? She gave us a donation, you didn't answer that question, she gave us a donation of protective equipment, and she allowed us to buy 220 fans across the line at the factory price. And you have now admitted that GenePlanet was chosen by the MGRT to carry out this business. You admitted that this company was chosen to carry out this business. I don't know. I really don't know. Let's take another step. On Target, you were Mrs Jelka Godec, who was saying that we could not do business directly with China and then, on Twitter, she announced that she had received an invitation on 16 March that the Chinese Ministry of Economy had the communication to determine the company that would carry out this business. [[Incomprehensible]] I think now, in fact, everything has come together so nicely and it's visible to everyone. You don't get a lot of things.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u35	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u36	Well, once again from the beginning, we won't be confused. In two, three hours, in two hours, he said in three hours I would have to make a bank guarantee for this Bytenac and the Bitenc would have to get the deal and you pay now and the Geneplanet Diagnostics Society ordered 8 million 853 thousand 306 euros. If we look first at your government report first delivery on March 23rd on this successful March 30th according to your report on March 23rd, there was no supply, even though the foster care providers were already in the warehouse after this e-mail. Let's move on. On 24 March STA - Slovenian Press Agency - reports that the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor has accepted the Chinese Ambassador to Slovenia for talks, agreed that Slovenia and China will be in comprehensive humanitarian scientific and economic contacts to prevent the effects of the crown pandemic. In the wake of the outbreak of the virus, Slovenia provided emergency humanitarian assistance to China to call for assistance from Beijing for protective equipment to help prevent further spread of the virus, Slovenia sent 1.2 million protection masks to China in mid-February, donated by the Slovenian branch of the company and Slovenia covered a quarter of the transport costs. [[Incomprehensible]] The Ambassador thanked Pahor for his support and assistance to Slovenia at the most difficult times. China is now assisting European countries, which is sending millions of masks and other medical equipment to Europe to contain the pandemic. The Slovenian President thanked the Ambassador for his intervention in the supply of respirators. The Ambassador ensured that the company supplying the respirators ensured that the delivery to Slovenia would run as agreed. After the first 20 arriving in Slovenia on Monday they were expected to deliver another hundred by the beginning of next week and a total of 220 within two weeks. Let me remind you again. The day before, according to your report, there were no deliveries, even though there was a donation from 20 nurses. Who has deceived your report, Ambassador, the President of the Republic? But it's interesting how dates and numbers go together. Geneplanet offers 220 fans The Chinese ambassador gives the same number. Geneplanet offers the first supply of 20 fans on March 23rd next until the end of the week and so on you claim. The ambassador says that 20 fans arrived in Slovenia on the day of the week, and the following day they arrive at the end of the week on March 27th, but so it is. No fan was delivered on March 23rd, no fan was delivered on March 27th. According to Geneplanet's report, the first tutors were delivered on April 6, 22 plus the compressor is likely to blur the numbers a little. Next tranche before April 15th, 28 fans and compressor. Next, April 22nd, 10 fans and compressors and April 29th, but this is no longer in the report. However, we were informed by the Secretary of State at a meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision on 5 May, 50 fans totaling 110 half of the offer. Why? But I'm going to set up the thesis because in the middle of April 23rd, an affair broke out on the Tarch show and someone retreated back. I've got another thesis and a theory that's probably more real, but I'm not gonna put it here, and if anyone asks me anything, I'm gonna say it. No, I'll just say it. Why should I. [[Incomprehensible]] There are several reasons that only half of the reality has occurred. It takes only a few days before the government's arrest. According to our information, between March 10th and March 12th – we are still waiting for this to happen – we officially requested SiriusMed to charge EUR 1.8 million for the purchase of 220 fans. Then, on March 12th, there was also a meeting - who attended it, I suppose you, Minister - at which you were supposed to be explained that this might not work and it would be better for a private society to do so. At this point, too, I suppose the reasons are familiar to you, Minister. You said you wanted to cancel the payment, but it was already done, and the Chinese company didn't want to pay it back. You have therefore set up a private company to complete this purchase, but it is said that this company paid only half to the Chinese company, namely EUR 900 000, and later wanted to negotiate at the second price of half, which is also its business model. This is where it got complicated. The other party, which is Chinese, did not accept it, so interstate diplomacy also engulfed. The result was a report by the Slovenian Press Agency. And if we now share 1.8 million euros with 220 fans, we get a good 8 000 euros. What was the price of the 17th already offered? Thirty-six thousand 400. So 28 000 euros of difference for each piece, times 110, is 2 million 800 000 euros – only on one job. That's why it was in such a hurry. Therefore, it was pressured to select specific caregivers during the night for the fit ones, so these experts were pressured by individuals from cabinets and various groups, both Mitja Terča and Andrej Potočnik. You have stubbornly forced yourself to purchase accurate — the least suitable and the most expensive — copyists. There's too much of it, and I know that's why you're going to say no. You'll say "that's not true." And it's funny to you again, because with these millions, we're here shopping like they're candy. Although you have saved lives, it is funny that it has been overpaid that a company has been chosen to conduct an interstate business for the sake of creating a huge price difference. And they told you this was published publicly: it's a business SDS, it's a company related to SDS. That's what they told you, and you let it happen. And now you think that's funny. I'm sorry, I really don't think it's funny. It's me. I was hoping I was wrong all along. But today you admitted: Geneplanet had a contract with China. At the same time, this was a donation from the State in which the Chinese party was to appoint an intermediary. This has been claimed by the former Member and current secretary in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. She was sentenced to “Chineses require the appointment of an intermediary”. Yeah, that's not true. You're the one who asked for a middleman. Not only did you request the appointment of an intermediary, you identified it, and it was precisely chosen. This could be done by one of the state-owned companies. The offer for transport, which your secretary also admitted, was and was misled, was introduced among the list of tenderers. And this was a respected Slovenian pharmaceutical company that would do it for minimum costs. But no, obviously this practice in Slovenia will never work out, or run out, or I don't know what else, we'll be bumping into some affairs again, where just because it was the right time, and at this right moment, you had these real friends, you really greased your fingers. And you, Minister, have allowed that, and to me, it's really not funny.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u37	Thank you very much. There's a Member of Parliament, mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go. But get ready for Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When there's no drama, you have to make it. This interpolation began very dramatically, of course, in such a tone and with the inevitable cliché bomb, the interpolation, you wrote yourself. The only thing missing was that well-known conviction from half-time history. The people will judge you on their own. But it was an obvious emphasis on the “soul care” of the proposer, particularly now that he has jumped from coalitions to opposition types. Another argument that it is not true that you did not have an alternative is expressed, of course, the alternative was, but what was this alternative? To let the fate that life be saved on its own, or perhaps if I go really into absurdity, I think that Minister Restoration could face some kind of electronic microscope and explain to the virus that it should not strike, so that everything is carried out in accordance with all the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. This law, in its 46th Article, provides that under what conditions and when purchases can be made without fulfilling all conditions such as those prescribed for regular acquisitions and the experience of Slovenia is very similar to that of other European Union countries, so that, in other countries, unfortunately, there have been many fewer of these “murchinary” urges that now someone who has done something must be attacked and, if possible, destroyed. We have tried, all together and, of course, the Minister, who has been in acquisition, to avoid these uncontrollable risks associated with purchases in China, and it is true that, as explained, it is also said that we do not have such a strong diplomacy, but, no country has such a strong diplomacy that it is fighting traffickers who have served in this way very, very much. The exceptions are France, Germany, and this is where it ends in some way. Spain didn't either. And there are also known examples of countries sending security guards to China to protect suppliers or sellers from traffickers. But if we know that, then it's clear what kind of situation we're in. And another illogical claim in this "interpellation" forecast to say, or introduction, was that it was very strange to manage the regime, to cost what it wanted. Or either one of us has never been in any situation when he said it costs to do what he wants, but I have to do it and I don't see anything bad here, I understand it, from a purely human point of view, because when we had this open door of the country of the epidemic, when the Italians were dying like a liquid tape, and in this situation, when you see that the reserves are empty and the doctors can't predict how much we're going to need and what kind of protective equipment we're going to need, it's really time to hit it with a hand on the table, but if they shoot you or not, and you say it costs as much as they want. As this situation was very difficult, it is also clear that on 13 March, at the Veterinary Chamber of Slovenia, all veterinary clinics, which have “instructors” or ventilators, as we say, sent a notice requesting them to prepare these for a loan to health care institutions and hospitals in order to use them in the event of a worse epidemic. So we were prepared to use, even to such an extent inappropriate, that they are practically for animal use, for animal use. So, they were suitable for you because, of course, when you need them, the balloon with which you “restraint” helps if you are ready to sit next to the patient. So this thesis on inadequate fans must be renounced for two reasons and two angles of view. First, fans, which are inadequate, are assessed only as less appropriate, because they needed an additive and second was not the last variant of the assessment, this was the only option, so there was no big choice. And now that it's operating with this inadequate and upgrade, I've allowed myself to show you what it is that separates from the appropriate fan, it's a breathing balloon with an attachment as appropriate, and it costs 15 euros per piece, after this set, and it's also replaced by a fan for seven days on a regular basis, and the fans and the fan filters change daily. So this is a matter that is not a problem for purchase and that is regularly supplied to all hospitals and it's not a thing that has jumped out now in the epidemic, so we have to argue, so much so that we're in the clear. After all, what is said to have been purchased by 300 fans, the tables clearly show that 148 were procured and that the minister is interrogated for how many there are and how he sees how much of them there are, why he should know. The Minister needs to know what he needs to get, and that's crucial, because he was in charge of it, he's not the inventory commission that's going to go to hospitals, ask how much you have now, if everyone's okay and everything else. So, here too, we have to decide somehow that we are honest, if we have to warn each other in this respect. However, as an excess of communication, I note that the Minister is laid on his soul and on the language "you were almost possible only an executor". So, in fact, you don't want to resent him because you needed him once and you'll probably need him in the future, especially when you probably need some help and understanding of the ministry for companies from your end, then it's really good to have in stock for saying, "Yes, you know, when the intervention was, we thought it was Janša, it wasn't you." But it is not fair to put it this way, because the minister does not run away from his responsibility and is responsible for what he was responsible for, and has done it as well as we have seen in the epilogue of the epidemic itself. Now, the next topic to be opened is the wrong use of the word whistle. In fact, for us the concept of whistleblower Snowden and, say, Assange and I would like to stop here somehow, because we don't have Slovenian whistleblower yet. In fact, every public prosecution is not whistleblower. The real whistleblowers are concerned about public interest and are alerted to irregularities as soon as they are detected. But when they cooperate and then wait for the right media moment to reveal themselves heroically, then this is a slightly less typical situation. And even when they withdraw to safety, they participate in the media spectacle at the hospital and from there, and then I really think everyone agrees that we cannot enrich the Assange and Snowden with our Slovenian surname. This gentleman, whom we were talking about, would just like to recall that the already signed contract for 5 million wanted to enrich by annex 3.8 or 3.9, he also wanted to conclude a contract with the tenderer for 10 million, which he had already found in previous attempts to conclude that he was unreliable. And I think it's more like a complaining whine that the jam flew away than you actually tried to do something fair. But today we have warehouses full and that's why 62 million were paid. So let's not mention more than 100 and so much 200 and so much and so much that's being imposed all the time. I think that Zdravko “fasal” would “fasal” this interpretation in any case, because if you did not now and if you did not get this equipment and if people were dying, then probably “fasal” would be even worse and faster, because due to the lack of equipment this is a much more serious and important reason. But for the colleagues who propose the interpretation, the data that the Minister cites is irrelevant, they say they're not real, the false is a government report and they don't consider any documents prepared by ministries and government services, so they only believe themselves, and I don't know if you can only trust yourself. And when the interpellation is the final day for the Minister to plead and make his arguments, then of the 39 who supported the interpolation, there are five, six in the Chamber, which also says something. So, they're trying to black out everyone who wanted to help in the coronation. And as my colleague Horvath has pointed out - this question is also raised many times - who will really want to help the next wave or the next severe situation. Today, you blame a man who has successfully accomplished his task in impossible circumstances, and as I have already said, what would we do to him if he did not carry out this task. That is why I believe - and in a dramatic way I will conclude - that the interpretation is written as a dramatic scenario, in the sense of one of the most capable ministers in the three governments to the political body in three scenes: before, during and after the epidemic. We could name it "Murder by Whistle" with the subtext Danger is over, but now you can die. And all those who want to accept Minister Restoration with the smell of a political corpse, you need to know that this purpose of yours does not have as much healthy material as it did - in my firm opinion, and this is not even so important - give facts available that Zdravko Restoršek in this case and in this situation as Minister of Economy acted properly and our society was very, very useful. And all those who perform this political autopsy today, you want to autopsy the political body, especially the coalition partners - it hurts us because you wanted it twice in your own kind - as well as the opposition that's been evading responsibility for the third time, so you'll all have to use new weapons, and I just hope you won't use the virus, the actual virus. And when we stopped at this drama you wrote, it would be fitting to come to favor if there was something in your masks, because as many of you in your pants, you showed yourself when they left you empty warehouses and left the government. Of course, I don't support interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Member Miha Kordish has the floor and the Ambassador Iva Dimic is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. The defence of Minister Restoration from today's interpolation is a faithful extension of what has been happening in the last three months, namely that Minister Restoration of the Self, the dirty business that has been under it, and the entire Government, which has made it possible, can defend itself with lies and proveable fat lies. Prior to the hearing, the Minister referred to the interpellation as a school file. Apart from the lies, there are, of course, counterattacks in the form of discredits. This is another political technology with which Minister Restorationšek defends himself from the public, which she received with her fingers in marmalade, but after all both political technologies, which are served faithfully, are the whole Government. If, in the defense of Minister Restoration, they said it was a school file, they would actually do him a favor, they would praise him. We know how far Minister Restoration's ability carries, we could hear it in Tarča - “People were dying, we were buying golf, not Mercedes, we would have waited until Christmas“ Here, if we wrote this sentence 10 times, we received the school file of Minister Počvalska. [[…]] What if he's such a man for the Minister of the Economy? The question, of course, is rhetorical. Minister of Rest is a special incompetence of the government of Janez Janša. The fact that around EUR 200 million have been signed is estimated at EUR 183 million without VAT, but the Minister now refers to the fact that a number of these contracts have not actually been implemented is a testament and a substantiate of this incompetence. The whole acquisition of the protective equipment, from fans to masks, was aimed at commissions. I guess that's clear. The equipment was not purchased because it was needed, the equipment was not purchased because it would be in the epidemic to protect workers, let it be shops at shopping centres, employees in industrial zones and even the most workers in health care institutions and institutions. No, that wasn't a government priority, that wasn't the priority of Minister Restoring. The priority was commissions, and these commissions led the procurement programme. The only thing thicker than the supplier's commissions are the lies of Minister Restovalska, who defends them. The decision for intermediaries was a conscious decision for commissions. There was an alternative on the table. We have also proposed this alternative in Levica, which we have already proposed in the beginning. Direct purchases, the possibilities of interstate agreements, some of these options have also been placed in the Ministry's or office's register, could have been made, we don't know why they haven't. Direct procurement means there is no commission. If there is no commission, the right friendly suppliers of this or those coalition parties, of course, cannot earn it. What I'm describing may sound like a criminal, but it's been happening for the last two, three months, especially at the Department of Commerce Reserves since Janez Janša took power on 13 March. Organized crime. Organized crime. The main key to this organised crime is, of course, the one directly made possible by the politically indebted operative of the Government of Janez Janša, which was, of course, Minister Restorationšek as a competent authority. To feel about the dimensions of this organised crime, the government of Janez Janš, I will give one comparison, which I have already mentioned several times, but it is, like everything else that has been happening in the National Assembly for the last three months, as if I were speaking to the walls. The State paid Jocu Pečečnik 5.5 million under that 30 million-dollar contract to transport some 20 tonnes of goods. Croatia received 60 tonnes of protective material for 5.5 million euros directly from China, transport price included. So for comparison, what order of sizes are we talking about? The country is for the government of Janez Janša prey. It's a plan. In a thousand and one ways, this is not just a budget that the coalition has taken out of the hands of the National Assembly and subordinated to the willful government. This is about all possible and impossible staff exchanges in all instances that can control the work of the Government. That this government is planning to shake hands with the country like a spoil, it turned out very quickly. Since the first day she performed. And it was precisely Minister Restoration who stepped in the front row to defend this looting with lies. It started with that debate about government salaries. When Minister Resteršek raised his salary by about EUR 400, the truth about the whole government outfit raised its salary by about EUR 400, no, that's just that raise for ministers. Then this same minister, who voted to raise these salaries, goes to 24 hours and declares that he has learned this from you. So the journalist replied to his inquiry that it was only from him that he found out that his own salary had risen. One hour later he broadcasts to Odjevi, Minister of Rest: “I learned this from you”. Two times the same minister learned the same information from a journalist on two different shows. I do not mention this case of raises in wages and these fat lies of Minister Restovalsk because these EUR 400 raises of wages would make a big hole in the state budget, but I am mentioning this as a talkative example of what tone we can expect from the government of Janez Janša and from Mr Počvalška. And oh, how much we've heard that tone in the coming months. We know who's been interfering with the supply chain. First of all, there is Mitja Terce, a volunteer lobbyist who patrolled the place that is happening. Then there was a whole range of current or off-duty political officials who were pressured in one way or another - suggested that if we wanted to give them the benefit of the doubt. Andreja Potočnik, former SMC member, now secretary, has come to fight to get the real deal going. Alenko Jeraj, a current SDS member, is mentioned — she too was involved in the purchases or tried to get involved. So Jelka Godec, former SDS MP, is currently the government's secretary. Urška Bašovnik Janša also competed for business with Zanmax - this Zanmax got a contract at the rate of 100 times its annual turnover, right? But the Secretary of the Cantarutti told the media that the companies had checked security, and then almost 10 million jobs received a company that had been turning around 100,000 euros in previous year or in previous years. Don't joke. Pa Marjan Podobnik, a retired satellite of the far right, threatened with John Janša and Restoration if the business did not receive the Dobnik trada. Loize Peterle of New Slovenia arranged the order for his daughter's company and so on. In short, the entire suit, the political suit associated with the current government, was pressing for such and different purchases. And the consequences, we know what they're like. A few weeks ago, 24 hours ago on the website revealed that Acron, you know, accounted for 143% of the margin for this story, Tonin's mom and the guy who got the deal for 30 million euros. Final extract from this 30 million-dollar contract? 16.6 million. Sorry, there were more contracts. when this information is a few weeks old. In the meantime, public and public pressure has led to a slightly more proactive negotiation of prices, but this does not change the fact of margins, it is estimated that up to 143 %, and that almost half of a contract has ended up in commissions. This is because the media have made a great deal of effort to charge the spreads at individual prices, to account for logistics and so on, it is reasonable to assume that all the other contracts are no better. What kind of companies were they still getting contracts? The MD global logistics received contracts in 10 times its annual turnover, and its owner was the debtor of FURS. One more in the line of cases I'm referring to. No wonder the government took the initiative to protect itself from persecution at its first meeting. Not just political persecution, before being persecuted by the police to carry out their organised crime. First she replaced the chief of police, then put her man, her warrior. Then she replaced the chief of crime. Finally, she replaced the head of the National Investigation Office. So that your past current and future pigs will be swept under the carpet. Somehow in the sense that if the public gets them stolen, at least they won't answer criminally. And the interests of such an intervention in the police and the impact on criminal investigations are, of course, large, very large. We know that it was ongoing or at least it was, probably already buried, an investigation into the financing of the SDS network of related institutions from Hungary, Viktor Orban. Of course, everything that's already happened and what's going to happen isn't a prosecutor, he's not a judge. If you're in control of an integrated police vertical, if you found out about the personnel blitzkrieg there, you've placed the key places of the people with the right client card, of course nothing will happen to you. That's how it works. It's got its name on it. It's called a stroke. A coup d'état. As part of this blow to the budget, as part of this coup against the police, within this blow to democracy. Therefore, it is rare that any treatment in this national assembly in the last three months should be avoided, as the opposition line is constantly trying to deny us the word, to try to play the protocol in the National Assembly and so on. The Government, especially Minister of Restoration or under it of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, has, of course, defended this strategy for commissions with lies. At first, they said, but direct purchases cannot be made because they do not have the legal basis. As stated by the Ministry of Transport: «The Republic of Slovenia or the Institute of Trade Reserves cannot carry out direct financial transactions to China, as it can only deal with Slovenian suppliers. This is not the decision of this government, but it is a matter of law in force.” Please show me an article of the current legislation which states that the State must not make direct purchases. I'm telling you, you can't do this to me. Why? Because it doesn't exist. That's what the Court of Auditors said. But of course, the ministry of Mr. Restovalska has not disturbed and continued with the following quote: "In addition, most Chinese companies also require a hundred per cent advance, which is not being used by the institution because of the possibility of abuse and unreliable supplies." Wow, what about all these supplies, or better worded contracts through intermediaries, when they got their advances, they either didn't happen or happen. These advances not only covered the purchase costs, but also the margins. Also a hundred percent, 143 percent margin, as we can see in the case of Acron's contracts. Another explanation in which the Ministry of Restoration lied. The top of this ministry is difficult to expect without Mr Restoration's knowledge, I would rather say under its direct directive. At the same time, the ministry and also Mr Restoring said personally that they do not give advances, how they do not pay advances. He said: “We only pay when we take over, and I will not allow public funds to be misused at the expense and harm of Slovenian taxpayers and to take advantage of war profiteers who see in this only the opportunity for good profit.” End of quote. It's a lie. A lie as thick as commissions. They ordered advances, and they didn't charge advances just for fans, like the Ministry did after the repairs, because fans are a little more demanding purchase, so we're going to give advances and not masks. The winner of the trade, this is the story related to Marjana Podobnik, which I mentioned earlier, received, say, one of the companies received 600 000 euros in advance for masks. In short, Minister Restoration of commission defends with lies. Why does the government do this, but I think it's clear. She's in a hurry to feed the networks that each customer surrounds. Now, for the opportunism of a political environment in which both Desus and SMC belong, and I'm going to stay with SMC, the commissions are probably this main thing. They have friends in the economy, they put them on proper commissions, then they do this at the end of their term of office, and the story is over. [[…]] On the other hand, with strong political ambitions, the SDS "decontrols" the whole country to stifle the opposition, to destroy free media and so on, thinks in some other categories. For SDS the currency is not only euro, it is not personnel themselves, but political power as a whole. Those commissions that have gone to SDS-related companies can also be based on past practices and past war profits, because the situation in which Janez Janša is in power goes to millions. On this basis, we can conclude that it is a priority for financial capital, which will in one way or another sink into political capital, what “sublime” funding in elections, indirect financing of the factory lies Nove24 and so on, right? [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u41	Comrade Kordish, the interpretation is on the agenda. Other [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u42	Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u43	You can insinuate at some other point in the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u44	All I have just explained is the question of interpolation, because the key mechanism, how the funds were collected from the public register, from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, into private pockets, in the last three months, has been the Department of Trade Reserves or Acquisitions of Protective Equipment, Masks and Fans, and the key political operator who did this for the Government, is Zdravko Restalšek, Minister of Economy. It was expected, of course, that as soon as the government began its attack on democracy and the looting of the budget, that people would rise up to stand up in protest and that is why the government was in even more haste and therefore did not act in any subtle manner in the places. She ran into these acquisitions of protective equipment, the Department of Trade Reserves, and let's give us as soon as possible the money from the public cash register before the angry people throw us out of power. That's kind of the logic. In all this logic, it has also proved to be a lot of incompetence, as in opening schools, opening museums, helping the economy and elsewhere. They were stealing from everyone. And now they're defending this theft with lies, also in front of everyone. With very easy to prove lies, I've already mentioned some of these today. Meanwhile, the promised supplements provided by the Prime Minister of the Government on Twitter, personally, for those who worked in the epidemic who were exposed to health care institutions and, above all, would put the care facility at the top of the agenda, not the homes for the elderly, these supplements are not yet there. Or they have not been paid in full and some have not been excused at all. Not as promised. At the same time, these criminal governments, which come from rhetorical praises and thanks to these self-sacrificing health workers, fly us through and so forth. Everything obviously goes in this country, only fair pay, fair work, no. We don't have the exact commission numbers, even though we should have them. We don't know how much money was lost at the acquisitions of protective equipment – 20 million, 30, 40? And what's the final amount under the line? We don't know that. Why don't we know that? Because all competent institutions that could prosecute and review this crime end up on the ground of government staff exchanges. Police, police case, police personnel literally hit the police, that's what I've already mentioned. And the Bureau for Money Laundering Prevention, right? Why the hell did the government replace the management of the Anti-Money Laundering Office? They don't like it, do they? Because a government party in particular has a problem with someone reviewing money laundering in this country. But we were able to read today, and the article came out with the title: Discovering, Resting 14 days ago bought 20 million more masks. Why did the country buy 20 million masks that cannot be used by healthcare professionals just before the epidemic broke out? Thursday, 11. 6, 5 minutes to 6: 00 a.m., this article was published on the Uncensored Portal. By the way, this portal was one of the key pieces of research journalism that revealed the government's pigland. “It is a far-reaching supply of masks from the beginning of the epidemic, the amount of masks even exceeds the number of masks that came into the country by the beginning of May. The transaction was carried out at a time when the supply of masks by other verified tenderers was refused at the Institute. It is 11 million Euros of hard work received by Hmezad TMT" and received between 27 and 29 May in order to supply 20 million masks that are not at all appropriate for healthcare professionals. Be careful, between May 27th and May 29th. Colleagues and colleagues, that was a few days ago. After all the disclosures in the media, how the state summit preys on the state budget through its proper intermediaries, suppliers. Still, Minister Restorationšek goes and directs the last step and the last theft that the jurisdiction of the Department of Freight Reserves or the mandate for acquisition of protective equipment gives him. “An answer to a question”, the article continues, “why does the country need so much mask after the end of the epidemic? These are common trilayer hygienic masks that are useless to hospitals and other health institutions. Hmezad TMT has never dealt with the supply of protective equipment before. His owners Miloš and Domen Prešeren have a good relationship with politics, including SDS. With the same company he had a few weeks before that negative experience. April bought 2 million inappropriate masks from him – beware – "it was informally the same masks that Geneplanet unsuccessfully tried to sell in front of that country." Nobody's gonna convince me that what's going on isn't organized crime. “Hmezad TMT provided a pharmaceutical inspection by means of a company, so no one can verify whether the masks actually work.” Once again, business from the end of May between May 27th and May 29th. Now, a few days ago. Hmezad TMT, Sorry, “The institution has saved the selected supplier from a serious mess because it has already transferred 20 million masks to Slovenia, which have been stuck in customs for more than a month because of problems with certificates. All of this happened at a time when the NPU National Investigation Office had already begun to investigate suspected irregularities in the supply of protective equipment.” You can read the entire article on this website Uncensored, allow me to summarize just two more paragraphs. “In the institution such an Hmezada TMT could not go on hand any more. For more than a month earlier, the company had brought 20 million masks to Slovenia, which had remained at customs due to inadequate certificates. However, their supply to the institution was made possible only by a modification of the contract. They also agreed to reduce the price from 56 to 52 cents, but this was still stronger than the market price." And that's just at the time when Minister Restoration says that they can now deliver to the supplier, that there is no more panic so that suppliers can choose. “Who will be responsible for this? Depending on the scope of the work, it is difficult to believe that the resting place did not know about it. The words of John Gallet and others testify to the fact that he also got involved in contracts of much lower value. As early as May 11th, the Ministry of Economy allocated 8.7 million euros to the Institute, which was at the time of Rumpf, the new head of the trade reserve, with Hmezada TMT, still agreed on an annex to the image. If the agency didn't get this money, I couldn't buy a record amount of masks. On the question whether the Ministry of Money pointed to the institution, since Restoration was already aware that it would end up in the account of Hmezada TMT, the Minister will be able to answer today." Who really expects the minister to answer that question today. But if he does, he will respond in the same way he has answered everything until now by insisting on his lies. This is not only about purchasing protective equipment, indirectly, directly, and it is a series of lies that justify purchases through intermediaries and commissions, even concrete transactions are in play, Geneplanet, Siriusmed R30 fans, probably the most controversial case and therefore the most representative. The government appointed an expert group - Dr. Richard Knaflja we saw, he also performed in Tarča - and the opinion of this expert group did not like Mr. Restovalsko because he wanted to enable the Geneplanet to do business and buy Siriusmed R30 fans in any way. So he turned to an alternative expert opinion, and he didn't like that expert opinion either, and it was still too fair, so he did a little bit of grooming, and he lied fatly in Tarča. Instead, Dr. Richard Knafl’s sneaky, hypocritical attack, merely expressing his professional opinion. Lies, lies, lies to cover a series of commissions. Deliberate overpayments, lies, attacks on the profession, repeat ten times, and we will get an approximation of who and what Mr. Restoration is, at least in the last three months, probably before that, just not so much in the eyes of the public. You, Healthful Rest, you're lying! You, Zdravko Rest, you're stealing! You, Zdravko Rest [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u45	My friend Kordish [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u46	/ turn off microphone/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u47	Korish, I give a reminder of things you have not argued and proved with anything. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u48	I would like to continue my debate [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u49	I didn't take your word for it. I was just giving you a reminder. And I want you to communicate verbally with us, the Minister, and also with the public in a decent way. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u50	I am communicating with the Minister exactly as he is communicating with the profession, as he is communicating with the public and as he is communicating with the National Assembly. You turned off my microphone before I finished with the view that Minister Restoration has to go to prison for what he was doing and what he was doing. But we have another much bigger problem that goes beyond one ministry and one minister alone - and that is that in the government Janez Janša virtually everyone is a restless criminal. Death to amber, freedom to all!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Comrade Kordish. With regard to these conclusions, I would suggest that they be reasoned. You have not written an ideological definition into interpolation, and I suggest that you avoid such discussions further. Parliamentary level is quite different from what you have when you protest in the streets and cheer. I suggest we move on. Anybody want to respond to that? Minister? If not, let's move on. Member Iva Dimic has the floor, and Member Dušan Šiško is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Yes, it is very difficult to listen only and only to ideological debates, which, in fact, after several sessions, are still one and the same, although everything has been proven by the report, as far as procurement is concerned. However, one fact is that if Minister Restoration were not a good minister for the economy, I am sure that you would not be in the government of Marjana Šarc. It is clear that, following the implementation of his colleague Pavšić, they are insulted because SMC, or also Minister of Rest in this Government, is. It is not a problem of protective equipment, but it is only that the SMC did not go with the LMŠ together to the elections and that they decided on a different path. And thank God they made that decision because, as a citizen, I really don't imagine that there would still be an election campaign at the time of the biggest crisis of the epidemic at the empty warehouse. What would actually be the situation in Slovenia? For the last time, the Commission for the supervision of public finances by representatives of LMŠ regarding the purchase of protective equipment of a speech on objective responsibility, and to use your logic for a moment, calls for the logic of the LMŠ on objective responsibility. Mr Marjan Sarec is at least objectively responsible for the fact that our doctors and nurses were almost without equipment in the worst times of the epidemic. Let me do it again in this place. On 16 March 2020, 93,500 surgical masks, 2000 masks FFP1, 1000 masks FFP2, 3400 masks FFP3, 1 million 514 000 380 latex gloves, 8,649 protective suits and 374 protective glasses were available, despite the fact that in the first days of March the World Health Organisation warned that supplies of protective medical equipment due to the increasing demand for equipment and abuse were rapidly decreasing. However, the government of Marjan Šarc did not listen to this and did not provide an adequate reserve of protective equipment. By the end of February, the Slovenian Medical Chamber had expressed its fears and concerns about the state of supply of protective equipment, and the case of Charec at that time had almost a mocking answer to the statement, and I quote: "It is as if police officers are afraid of firearms." End of quote. This further points to the attitude of the President of LMŠ towards this issue and further explains the reasons for the lack of equipment for health personnel in the period following the pledge of the new government. You accuse others, and your government almost caused disaster by its passiveness. Thank God the new government equipment could quickly provide. So much for the objective responsibility of whom. When and why did my fellow Member say in her position? The first was to order fans at Geneplanet exactly UKC Ljubljana, according to the Ministry of Health, says the Ministry of the Sharcheva Government and ordered for the entire Slovenia UKC Ljubljana, all the offers were checked by experts and the fact is that I do not see any abuse that happened or happened was that then the abuse of all experts was certainly the expert of Dr. Night and Podbregar. Why this was happening is really a question. Why is it necessary to destroy a professional? At one time, I will also say in the National Assembly that all experts, all immunologists, all intensifiers and all human beings understand who can. How can someone stand above everything? But something is the fact that the government has protected people and this was their purpose and it has done well. She also fought on the international market at all times to reach a sufficient quantity of protective equipment on time. If this had not happened, the real thing in Slovenia would have been different. The government has also protected people with antikoronic packages 1, 2 and 3 of many helped. She helped the pensioners, the students, and the people who were in trouble, the employees. She tried to keep as many jobs as possible, but apparently she did it well to try to show that it was not effective and that there were other purposes behind her. Today I read, now I open one portal and write the address - LMŠ: “government has cheated on fans and thus made it possible to make a war profit of not 168 or 281 fans, at least 104 of them in Slovenia”. You know what? That reminds me of when we had, a while ago, some fire and fire companies came to this fire. And by law, every fire company has to have at least four breathing devices, breathing aids. And in the records they have 4 when they came to the fire, but they said forward with four airways, they said "but we only have two". That's what I'm saying. We can have thousands in stock if they're not operational. And I'm just asking how someone can claim and only on the basis of some information of a public nature then pulls out information from someone who should have this information before March 12th, how many things are going to work. Someone who should know this information is here throwing up guilt and saying that the data is different. I think we should have this information, too, my colleague Pavšič. However, on 12 March until 12 March, they were bound by this government work to have all of this under their control. And all these complaints about what this government is like and so forth, I must say that one tweet very well told me that democracy is characteristic that power can also be replaced. And power has changed after so many years, and it's obviously very difficult for some. To try to destroy the work of the government and of all people, we must say that Slovenia has succeeded in going through this epidemic because the government, experts, doctors, medical personnel and, finally, citizens and citizens who respected this social distance also did not socialize and were aware that this epidemic is not only a flu, but perhaps something more dangerous. We see how it is happening, we were here a few days ago when we listened to experts that have problems or predict that there will be problems with any other wave, even though I wish it really wouldn't be, because people have simply become too discredited, too much has been said about them. And who else is willing to help in such a situation? Of course, I expect him to overcome reason and desire that we all be well protected and prepared for a possible arrival. And even when Comrade Kordish said that something had happened again, that a huge amount of masks had been ordered – if he had read the evening five days ago, he announced that public institutions were already warning that the quantities of protective equipment had fallen, that they had only for two bad months, it was said that they were probably preparing for a possible situation again, a difficult situation and that I hope that we would not then ask ourselves again who did not get and where did not get them and so on, but let us do something and actually take the will of the people, because perhaps the object of the opposition is also to take the will of the people, but I hope that there will truly win reason, complexity and also solidarity, which is the most important in such situations.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Member Dušan Šiško has the floor, and Member Jura Ferjan is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u54	President, thank you for your word. I will begin by congratulating the applicants because I wonder why Members should explore what happened to the acquisition of masks during the crisis, both masks and respirators. Even when the parliamentary commission was set up by Dr. Anžet Logar and Jelka Godec in previous mandates, they came to some conclusions and we will not believe we do not know, we do not know today who was responsible for what he was guilty of. I strongly recommend that you take the initiative to go to the NPU because in Slovenia we have institutions, the judiciary, the prosecution, the police. To this day, I got nothing from them. Members of Parliament and I congratulate you on the matrate, and you see on one side or on the other there are a variety of things coming into play. I seriously wonder if we still need these institutions, there are a lot of employees, money coming from the public administration. This money can also be set elsewhere and Members of Parliament are now being questioned by one minister for the economy. Soon I hear that he will fall into the oven to defend himself before it is possible for the police, but then it will be possible that the culture will turn out because we have no culture in Slovenia at all, because they themselves made one big barn before the cultural ministry. I don't know how it's possible that the so-called whistleblower, even though Bane explained earlier that we don't have whistles in Slovenia where he is. There's no mention of him. I believe Members from the first to the last, if you had signed contracts, we would have been on the list somewhere long ago. This Mr. Ivan Gale is nowhere to be found. He's hiding somewhere, and from the left and right, we don't know where he is, maybe he's in the Bahamas, and he's enjoying not saying I don't suppose with the money he cashed, he started whistling. That's how you said we had the whistle and he said out the data. Last but not least, I'm surprised that we're still dealing with this mask and with the respirators, waiting for someone to bring out that we didn't need these masks at all. These masks, if they were by all the rules, could be completely tested. Not the masks when certain people wore them to stores when they were sewn up at home. I'm seriously wondering where this is going. It is a terrible thing to tell you that I did not expect to enter the home of democracy to have such talks from certain Members. I remember Parliament when they were messing with bananas, with apples, but at the time Parliament wasn't on TV, and today, with "Cateng" they were hitting each other, and today, just to put it simply, children, when they came out of diapers, think they can speak all sorts. Some culture we have to own. And those who talk the most about how culture, culture, bring people, come in there, along with those who ride their bikes and walk around, and finally, when you ask who you are, what you are here, yeah, we came in a little bit, because of the twirl. So let's start thinking about what we're going to talk about in here, Slovenia is looking at us. Mr. Restoring, you have one, so, I will say, hook up with me if you are the Minister of the Economy, and the whole Government, I don't know why you allowed it, because if I was the boss, I wouldn't let everyone get into this procurement mask and you could then answer for these acquisitions, but not something is the Minister of Defence, something for the health care, I don't know who else, those old ones, from Brussels, Members, have made some calls, our Members, as I heard today, in the debate, have made calls, and, as long as these institutions, the prosecution, and the police and everyone, if they do, unfortunately go to jail, pay if you take anything, pay all the penalties. If I was the head of state, I'd put one up, not everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u56	Well, before we go completely out of our way, I don't know, I was sure that today is the day-to-day intervention of Minister of Economy, Mr Restovalska. Today, we are obviously "interpellating" the former prime minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, and "interpelling" Mr Ivan Galet. Well, Mr Šarec is downstairs in the office, and Ivan Gale will probably be on a bicycle tomorrow - so I doubt that he's in the Bahamas - he'll be walking around here, at least as I see on Facebook, because I'm not taking part in these things, because it's a matter of civil initiative, not politicians. We have a chance for these microphones, and there's not a lot of them. Not even Mr. Gale, who you're all attacking today. What's the point? Let's put aside the indictment, the suspicion, and go only to what we've proved today irrefutablely. Today we've proved to the public, probably not, because you'll deny it, irrefutablely, no doubt, that you've bought unnecessary equipment. According to the number of “instructors”, there was no hurry and apparently enough. So, consciously you bought unnecessary equipment and with the basis for this purchase, you cheated good two months until one of the ministers escaped the right data, and then we went to check it out. Instead of nothing, we have come to 404 “instructors”, and there are probably more. The second thing that has been clearly proven today has been repeatedly – you have deceived about the necessity of introducing Slovenian intermediaries. The State shall not enter into direct business. Is There a God Who Cares About You? Four, back in the Diary. Moreover, at one of the media performances, the secretary in the cabinet of the Prime Minister was also engaged, even saying that Chinese suppliers had requested the introduction of Slovenian intermediaries. And you've been selling all this to us for two and a half months. And what is the result? At least EUR 4 million in damage, direct, to the state budget. And now this equipment is in storage. And then I listen to my colleagues say that the night before five days ago, he reported how the amount of protective equipment had dropped in anticipation of a different wave. No, I'll tell you why they fell. Because of the complete incompetence of this government's communication, she decided to be at 1 again in the night. 6th purchase decentralized again. And all these purchasing flows, all these purchasing services, customers across all public institutions have to start today from scratch, this thing doesn't work so well, it's done so well, it's done on schedule, it's given to people for a while, not 14 days, you know how the public order goes. However, it is not possible to order one goods in this country within two weeks, unless, of course, it is the pre-selected suppliers with the goods, and that is the case. Can we now expect a chronic lack of protective equipment again? I guess so. Although I doubt this time it was a government maneuver, it was another proof of the complete inability to control the supply flows in this country. Well, every deal this country does ends up in some kind of affair. Very few, however, have been able to prove this at a time when the matter is warm. And today, we proved two of them irrefutablely. You bought unnecessary equipment, proven, and you cheated on the necessity of introducing Slovenian intermediaries, resulting in at least 4 million euros in damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Jura Ferryan has the word, and he'll get the word Nick Prebil behind him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u58	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members and, of course, all those who accompany us. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which took office on 13 March this year, has successfully and decisively faced an epidemic of coronavirus, at least in the first half or in the first third. This is demonstrated by data, statistics, and this is also proved by the current epidemiological picture, and this is also recognised by us from abroad, both in Europe and in the world. The interpretation you filed by the opposition party or part of the opposition was filed on 4 May this year. So you filed it in the middle of an epidemic, you filed it less than 100 days after this government's appearance, actually less than two months after the government's appearance. Of course, you have this right, or it was constructive and stately conduct, and of course the electorate and the electorate will decide. This is particularly true in the eyes of three former government parties, namely LMŠ, SD and SAB, and the former super-coalist party Levica. So, these four parties that left Slovenia in a state of concern and very envy, just as the epidemic broke out. And when I thought about how to illustrate in today's debate the most, what exactly the attitude the proponents have to face the Coronavirus epidemic and, as a result, public health and, of course, the lives of citizens and citizens, I recalled the statements made by the former director of the National Institute for Public Health, Ms Nina Pirnat, who comes from a number of Social Democrats, and her words, her performances at the press conferences we witnessed. And that is why I have decided that in today's debate I will also quote some of these words, because it is difficult with other words so simple, so visual, so plastic, if you want, to show what the attitude of the proponents is to face an epidemic of the coronavirus that seeks Slovenia, Europe, the whole world. These are also customers who, in all these last weeks, have hampered the adoption of anti-korona packages, which in the vast majority did not support anti-korona packages, which have been a multi-billion-dollar intervention in the history of independent Slovenia, helped the Slovenian population and the Slovenian economy. Here's the deal. On 24 February this year, as mentioned earlier, the former director of the National Institute for Public Health, Mrs Nina Pirnat said on 24 February: "Travelers returning from abroad and getting sick signs should contact a doctor on the phone and no protective behaviour is necessary, nor is masks." Four days after that, on 28 February, Mrs Nina Pirnat said: “People who come from endangered areas and are healthy can normally be included in a working group and do not need domestic isolation.” Let's move on. March 3rd and March 2nd, Mrs Nina Pirnat, her statement, quote: "It may be that the virus is between us, but even if it is, the signs are obviously so mild that it does not cause problems." Ms Nina Pirnat said on March 2nd, “the signs are so mild that they do not cause problems”. March 5th, it should be noted that the transmission of the disease requires closer contact with the patient and that patients or patients and his or her companions are likely to be infected at the emergency room, similar to those on board. Very visual, isn't it? And if you're wondering why medical personnel were sick in Slovenia. If you're wondering why there's been an infection in nursing homes, if you're wondering why this person is no longer the director of the National Institute for Public Health, if you're wondering, or if you're not asking, I just gave you the answers. Here I would touch myself briefly only for the intermezza with a few words of home for older citizens in our country. We have seen what could happen in them if the new governments were like the reactions under the government of Marjana Sarca. So we had three homes for the elderly, where the situation was slightly escalating, this was Metlika, Šmarje pri Jelšah and Ljutomer, which could be much more. The data, which also very clearly confirms that this Government has successfully faced the epidemic under the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus coalition, is also evidence that, during the same period this year, fewer people died in homes for older citizens and in the same period in the previous year, that is, in 2019 when the epidemic did not occur, in homes for older persons in the same period last year. In doing so, I will explicitly point out that every life lost is a loss, it is a damage to it, and that every life is precious and important that there is no misinterpretation that has often been used in the media in recent weeks. I'd like to add just one more piece of information here. In Slovenia we have about 19,000 caregivers for the elderly. Of these, 1.7 % were infected. So much for the data and statistics that are set in context. I will continue with another quote from the former NIJZ Director, Mrs Nina Pirnat, and then I promise to conclude in this debate by quoting. As she said on March 8, 2020, four days before the outbreak was declared in the Republic of Slovenia, "I do not yet have a coronary epidemic in Slovenia, and I hope to prevent it," but look, four days before the outbreak was declared, the director of the National Institute for Public Health said, "we do not yet have an epidemic." That says a lot, doesn't it? Of course, the government of Marjana Sarca declared an epidemic on the way out. And the second sentence, or the second part of it, leads us to prevent it, and at this point, I ask myself, what would you do to stop it from doing — by swindling, by pointing your finger at others, by laying down responsibility, by throwing sand in your eyes, by empty warehouses? You'd stop her from doing that if you hadn't thrown a rifle into the corn? The state of the security equipment in the supply reserves of the Republic of Slovenia on 16 March, i.e. three days after the acquisition of the third Janša Government of the operational role, was the following, see. Protective suits 2700 pieces, that's easy, then a higher level of protection protection protection suits 5949, then we go after protective masks of FFP1 7000 pieces, FFP2 1000 pieces and FFP3 1900 pieces, from which were 1500 pieces with an expired hand and a surgical protective mask of 93,500 pieces. So the equipment, which was not enough even for a few days to protect the medical staff, who faced the coronavirus in the first battle line, was left by the government of Marjana Sarca to Janez Janša. And when much has been said in today's debate about how many respirators there have been, how many beds and so on, let's go specifically, see, 12. 3. 2020 was 26 beds available in an intensive department where patients with coronary infection or COVID-19 could be admitted, and this is the data of Minister Marjan Sarc, Mr Šabedr. And we can go directly to our hospitals. See, UKC Ljubljana, I speak on 12 March 2020, available beds for intensive care or therapy, UKC Ljubljana 3 beds, UKC Maribor 4, General Hospital Celje 5, General Hospital Novo mesto 3, then Murska Sobota 2, Izola 2, Jesenice no, General Hospital Slovenj Gradec 2, Nova Gorica no, Brežice no bed, Ptuj 1, General Hospital Trbovlje 2 and University Clinic Golnik 2, i.e. a total of 26 beds. So much so that it wasn't necessary to buy respirators, was it? There's something else that needs to be highlighted. The government did not pay forward for the security equipment, where there was no guarantee, an exception were some fans, which was also explicitly stated, for which the bank guarantee was for which the insurance was for that reason. Now, some of you have already said in this debate: “Yes, but the government was not responsible”, I am talking about the Sharčev government, but look, stop moving, on 20 February 2020 the Council of the European Union, like the other members of the European Union, called for you to take measures to ensure public health, in particular that hospital staff providing patients will have adequate protection. Therefore, with effect from 20 February 2020, the conditions were met for the then government, under the leadership of Marjan Sarca, to define personal protective equipment as basic supplies. Or she did, and you have an answer in your stockholdings on day 16. 3. 2020, which I presented earlier. If the government of Marjan Šarc had reacted differently then, if it had been to purchase protective equipment, I am sure that the prices of this protective equipment would have been significantly lower, because it did not, and we know what the situation was, because we know everyone sitting in this hall, and everyone who follows us knows. We know when we went to the store or to the pharmacy or we got an infection or we got gloves or we got a mask, we didn't get them because they weren't in Slovenia. Now you're here wondering why the government was buying and why the prices were higher. Yeah, of course the prices were higher if things weren't there. See, in capitalism, the price is fixed by the market. I understand or try to understand that some of you are still thinking about socialism or some other regime, but you find that hard to understand, but it doesn't change reality, the situation is as it is on the market. And another important piece of information is here. The main thing that was in the eyes of those who ordered protective equipment was the time factor. What helps you masks that you might get for, I don't know, 10% cheaper, and they would deliver them to us, I don't know, June 15th, in 4 days. Nothing helps us much, does it? Read also some text, some column of doctors who worked with COPID-19 patients who worked in reception departments, what situations they faced. But I know you've read it, but you're obviously not moved. In doing so, I would like to point out that, personally, I am in favour of this and I am also convinced that, as far as there is any irregularity, these matters will be thoroughly investigated by the competent institutions. And as far as the irregularities occurred, they also found out and took appropriate action. There can be no doubt here. We cannot or cannot afford to accuse ourselves at all times, especially those who have exposed themselves, who have risked their health at the end of the day, not only the time and many probably the means to successfully face the coronary epidemic in Slovenia. Many who have now shown themselves, what if there is another wave that we do not want, but it is necessary to be realistic in order for it to happen, that they will no longer want to expose themselves. And I don't understand at this point how it is possible, even at the time of the epidemic, to be in a time when we should really show some unity and not share in one, another or any other, to go to some ideological battle or whatever. I really don't get it. Therefore, in the final part of this debate, I will make this final point the very opposite of it, because in the opposition you are doing or in the part of the opposition that I will not be unjust, you are doing. I will not criticize, I will not blaspheme, I will not squander the public image of those who have stood out, but I will do exactly the opposite, not to oppose the opposition, because if you suggest something good, I will gladly support it, but because it is right and right. So once again in this place, I'm going to thank all of you who in any way have helped us in this first part of the first half, in the first third of any way, successfully face an epidemic of the Coronavirus that you're still doing, because this battle with the epidemic is still going on with the virus that you're doing. Thank you to all of you who have been mentioned, who have not been or will not be mentioned. Thank you to the government, and thank you to Minister Restovalski. Thank you to the doctors, the nurses, the medical staff, the civil protection, the police, the military. Everyone. You, too, dear Members and Members, who supported the measures and against the crown packages that helped the Slovenian population and the economy, Slovenian tourism. A million 300,000 people received direct assistance with tourist vouchers and with all citizens and citizens or residents of our beautiful country. We've proven that we can do this and that we can do this. But I would like you to know in the opposition that this is not about authority, but about Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u59	Thank you, too, Mr Member, for this debate. The text was wanted by the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u60	I too will be sincere and grateful for all the wisdom we urgently needed, but I do not know what else to do. No, it's not about ideology in the primary sense of the word. But it's ideology, but it's the ideology of one currency. When I spoke earlier about direct damage, 4 million euros, in just one job, on the job of unnecessary purchases of preschoolers. How many other transactions have directly damaged public finances, but there are probably more than ten million, but others will. You're asking what stand the previous government left. EUR 240 million of the balance sheet surplus has left. In the first week of your government, it blew. Apparently, she's left enough nurses and apparently left a functioning supply system of protective equipment, which you then completely destroyed within 12 hours. Based on what, I don't know. Based on the warehouse of the grocery store? It is clear to me that the Department of Freight Reserves stores urgently the necessary things that this country needs if something serious really happens. What warehouses? Milk, flour, oil, fuel. It happened to be in there after 2006, which a colleague already found in his debate, some FFP-2 protective masks, some gloves and a few suits, and now this government comes and miraculously finds out "the warehouse is empty what we can do, aha, let us interrupt all those who purchase protective equipment, you can no longer do so, and now we will be supplying, ours," in the same ideology – the ideology of the euro. What did the former government do? I don't know. I listen here all the time. I mean, this is about collective success, that we're not that sick, but you're sorry that there aren't so many people who didn't get sick, I don't know, 5,000, 10,000 or 100,000 people and we didn't have 5,000 dead? Yes, given how much I'm listening to you, you're sorry it didn't happen, because then everything you've been doing would be entirely justified. No, you wanted to. The first in Europe has closed borders in the previous government, which we have heard from France. We used to communicate with people. We've declared the epidemic based on epidemiological data. This is not a matter that someone decides and says "Yes, and tomorrow we will have an epidemic." Well, come on, please. We closed schools, banned visits to senior citizens' homes – these were effective measures. Have you also had any effective but that anti-korona packages were effective for our economy and for people? Don't give me that. Please. As long as they are being implemented, we are already assessing how successful all of this has been. Well, it didn't work out, so let's face it. They couldn't all have been successful. And if we're going to propose something good, you're going to confirm it generously? From three packages so far, I don't know, 300 plus a few proposed supplements, I don't know if I could count them all in one hand. And now you're teaching us and you're wise about what we're proposing, I don't know, what a mess it is, what a mess we're doing, and we're just setting you up, and I don't know what else. Oh, please. Let us, however, preserve at least the height of the people who look at us, but that is not the case – you run us over because you have decided to do so and you are behind your decisions. Is there something wrong with that? No, but don't read it to us, or even say, "How good are we, because we've accepted one amendment from the SAB to the PKP-1" - I don't know, with PKP-2, I don't know if it was any, either, in threesomes, since the two hundred and seventy - and quote Mrs Pirnat. I'd rather not read Dr. Krek's and Jelk Kacin's quotations right now, because we're going to go to some other level of communication. Well, come on. And everybody nods there, yeah, how good a friend talks. Yeah, he's naive. However, he can be grateful that the previous government has resigned and that SMC and DeSUS have confirmed the new government. Why? Because otherwise I wouldn't be sitting in here at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Nick Prebil has the next word. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, please wait for your time to discuss. Mr Nik Prebil has the following word, Mr Jani Prednik is being prepared. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister of Rest, colleagues and colleagues. I am starting my discussion today with a quote: "There is no institution and it will not execute direct prepayments to suppliers requiring 100% of the advance. Such transactions are too risky for Slovenia. I will not allow public funds to be misused at the expense of taxpayers.” That, Minister, is a statement from your tweet, on 9. 4. 2020. And today, on that basis, I find that you lied at the time and you're lying now. It's not nice to lie. And the story of dealing with fans, or more proper caregivers, is much broader than it seems at first sight, and is the real lie of suspicions of corruption, of mismanagement of taxpayers' money, is the story of non-transparentness and personal involvement of you, the well-respected minister, in matters where you should remain out of some moral hygiene. Somehow it started with a desire for intermediaries to remove the protection and medical equipment for Slovenia. However, this is also the most striking example of dealing with Geneplanet, where, on behalf of your country, your ministry, you wanted to do a deal for the circus of €8 million, amounting to 220 fans or trainers. In mid-March, the entire top of the ministry, as well as the people in the government, was informed by the profession that these fans are therefore Siriusmed r30 the last choice among the 90 proposed since they are the most expensive and least appropriate. Besides, the day after that, the business was concluded, and let us look at the facts. This special expert group of doctors who have expertly reviewed the suitability of fans has only assessed these as less suitable for patients with the crown virus and here I really wonder who you are, then you were buying this for yourself? This is what I am asking you because you've beaten your profession again, and I really don't understand how you decided to buy it, which is clearly a suspicion of corruption. Then you may even dare to discredit the public in a manner that reminds you of inappropriateness and irregularities. Interestingly, when one of the members of the expert group expresses opposition to your decision, attacks will come upon it and this is truly shameful. You have also silenced us and the public, d is the expert evaluation of Dr Podbregar, to which you referred before, if you have the agreement on MGRT for Siriusmed r30 fans, but he also assessed other fans some as significantly better I will quote him not to say this is not true, quote: “In comparison with r30 Mindray is a more advanced fan and allows additional vital measurement for the patient, but also has everything that this r30 option offers, I would professionally choose Mindray.” For the second time in one of the shows, somehow with a shaking voice, I will quote you here: “We bought these fans because they were available at that moment, although they were not Mercedes, but Golfes.” Now I'm asking you here just like that for a farmer, what makes you think that you can buy Golfes if companies offered you Audis and Jaguars with more equipment for a lower price with the same delivery hand? The only possible answer is that because you wanted or wanted to create a business with Golf or this type of business or fan in this selected company, it is called prefering something that held it and made it worse. Let us recall that the connection to this company goes not only to you, but to the SDS party again. I don't really want to accuse anyone, but the connections are more than obvious. The director of this company, Mr Bitenc, is a good friend of Borut Friday, former Secretary of the Government of Janša. has also spoken at one of the SDS parties' open forums. This Friday, however, was once no longer the ironic co-owner of this same company, Geniplanet. [[Incomprehensible]] [[Incomprehensible]] You are also the Minister in a telephone conversation where you were transferred to this company and you demanded 100% of the advance payment for this company, with only 50% of the bank guarantee, which is very wrong, which is why 100% of the guarantee is essential for the state to protect and protect its purchase. Well, we know what an advance is, an advance payment for a service. You gave this in full before the bank insurance was provided and you kept saying that it wasn't going to happen. Which is really interesting, given that the problem of prepayment was in another package that she wanted to send from China to Alibaba. So you personally, knowingly, intervened in the procedure of this selected company and basically made it possible to request such an advance, which is the most attractive for materials or fans that are useless in Covid patients without additional equipment. Once again, they're useless. And such a business, Minister, is never reckless, but even less manageable for the state. And thirdly, for the i-point – Geneplanet's offer was the most expensive, with the price of €36 000 400 per unit, without VAT and without the necessary equipment. In addition, they did not deliver these medical fans to the scheduled deadline - that was April 15 - and the contract was even extended for a month, even though there was an unknown hurry. By comparison, you also ordered fans at Interpart, where you took only 7 pieces, but the price per unit was significantly lower, respected, EUR 17 000 800 without VAT. This means that these Geneplanet fans, from the basic price to almost four times more expensive and even more expensive, would be if you added those required air moisturizers and compressors, for some additional 1,000 500 euros, even to a fraction of the price, and I can't really understand why you then intervened in such a business, why you wanted such a deal to be concluded, why you sent close associates to the plant, rather than whether it was ordered by someone higher than you, or whether you wanted to take advantage of yourself or your business friends. Finally, through the media, we have also heard many statements about some pressures, screams, threats, workers in the institution, what will happen if this business is not carried out and that these are instructions from a summit. And here it is obvious, in all this connection, that you had, somehow with this company's personal desire and you are not alone in this government, far from it, nor is it the only wish, because we know that it was also the desire that the order take over the Department of Trade Reserves, which is under the auspices of your Ministry, so MGRT and the Minister of this Ministry have also been in the previous Government, as you are also a minister in this Janša government, and since the institution has been repeatedly unappreciated as being unfit for these central acquisitions, I am truly surprised that you do not know what the facilities of the institution and what organs you have under the Ministry. Because you speak out publicly that you have not signed anything, even though you have given your consent to every conclusion of the contract and you can basically say what you want, but the fact is that you are objectively politically responsible, as the highest person in the ministry, for every actual and every event that is the result of the conduct of the entities directly superior to them. Well, this also includes the Department of Freight Reserves. And I'm asking you nicely that you don't somehow deceive us and that you don't have people who are stupid because they haven't, because they've actually missed you a long time ago. And of objective and subjective responsibility, you know, your former head of SMC, Dr. Miro Cerar, also spoke. I suggest you read this article. Last but not least, it could also be read by coalition members, especially colleagues from SMC, who have recently strongly advocated ethics and morality in politics, but now they have quickly turned this board, but unfortunately to a page that is heavily spat. And I'm really asking all coalition partners when you're going to stop blinding your eyes and protecting a minister here who's not taking any responsibility, although it's clear that he's been interfering with the business and "preferred" a certain company, and working beyond the rules. Since your story about, you know, Geneplanet is more visible than you think, it is not an unknown enterprise to your ministry. If you look at Erar's data, and I will read this to you, there's a million-and-a-half MGRT business, over the last eight years, but we also know that this company will continue to receive subsidies because there are six projects on MGRT, which is essentially no problem, but I'm just showing a link. But, more importantly, the government immediately after taking power froze the budget and stopped all unnecessary payments. But again, the rules obviously do not apply to all the same or are not applicable to those chosen. Now, which companies were still receiving irreparable subsidies from your ministry, including Geneplanet, for €423,000 during the epidemic when the budget was frozen. And also this company was privileged in the mask business and I'm asking myself here why? You have the opportunity to tell us who, what, and why it was privileged. However, I would point out once again that if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the Ministry of Health, did not cancel the order of these inadequate fans, which some of them would need to be upgraded, they would buy me this nonchalantly nicely. Even though Minister Gantar is 2. 5. stated that fans no longer need to be, and we know that today, when the epidemic was declared, we had enough to make the scenario worse. So, you've been lying to each other, and lying to a lie to a lie to a lie to a lie to a lie to yours becomes the truth, but no, unfortunately, a lie is still a lie. And even the last delivery deadline for 220 fans was 15. 5. And the only possible explanation here is the abuse of public funds under pretense, and here there is some doubt and suspicion of a crime, but see, this will be dealt with by the competent authorities. The epilogue of everything, the company then proposes to cancel the contract, the state remains 90 fans for whom we need to buy additional equipment, 20 companies buy back, 110 do not deliver them. Now there's something else that's crucial. Although these fans were inadequate for Covid-19 and dearest patients, and that you personally called the office and demanded that payment of 100 percent advance before the guarantee be made and this deal with Geneplanet is done. There have been numerous irregularities that are evident, and these are no longer suspicions, irregularities that point to unethical clienteleism and corruption. And this is worth any judgment of the public and the initiation of proceedings. And then you, Minister, in a show of bold things, yes, and what we have to explain to the public. I'm really sorry, but did you fall on your head? All the time you've been honking, saving lives, it was a crisis situation. Yes, of course, but this is your duty. But that doesn't justify buying these fans that are inadequate. The key is that suitable fans were available and that we did not need them according to known numbers today. Well, let's see, you said earlier, there were 281, of which 168 were suitable fans for Covid-19 patients. Okay, look, I buy this claim of yours, 168 fans are appropriate. Then from the days and days came new fans from Gorenje, and so on, the number grew, today we know because the hospitals told us that there were over 400. I mean, tell me then, and that's crucial, everyone, respected colleagues and colleagues, why you then bought and forced forward with the purchase of 220 fans, which are inadequate for Covid-19 patients without this equipment, which was not ordered. Explain that to me. With what I'm saying now, you've been tampering with the evidence, and finally your Secretary of State said that between 100 and 200 fans would be enough for a worse scenario than luck. You are politically responsible for favouring businesses, because this damaged public finances for EUR 4 million and could also be harmed by public health if the issue were exacerbated because these new fans were, of course, inadequate. And one more thing, Minister, and this is where I'm going to finish. If we had at least a little respect for citizens or a little bit of moral and integrity and personal responsibility, we would have said good-bye to the situation at the very first moment in which many irregularities and disputes were identified. Indeed, we have come at a time when no one else is taking any responsibility, and that is extremely worrying, and if you have not been able to do so, I suggest you step down here now before the end of this interpolation and save yourself at least the little respect you have left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik has the next word, and Mrs Monika Gregorčič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u64	President, thank you so much for saying this. One nice greeting to all, Mr. Secretary of State. Now, at the outset, let me immediately reply to a colleague from the SDS who said that we are still in socialism on this side of Parliament. It always bothers me because I'm an 87-year-old and I teach and speak to a party member whose president grew up in communism and cried when he was thrown out of the Communist Party. So I suggest you just stop doing that. I'm not going to talk about crime or anyone in this place as a criminal or a criminal group. We have institutions that will determine whether it was a crime or not and I can only say here, a respected minister with a team and the whole government, I sincerely hope it wasn't a crime, but I will not condemn anyone in this place. The fact is that within this crisis, within this epidemic, the countries that had people among their leaders who were able to turn quickly and properly and take advantage of their connections, knowledge, especially with China, were best able to go through or from this crisis. And, Minister, you've been Minister of Economy since 2014. This is your third government you're in. In these six years, I am convinced that I have worked in the Minister's office before, and I know how this is going on, you have had many meetings with politicians, economists and influencers in Chinese as well. And your focus since 2017 was, at least to the extent detected by public publications, especially in Chinese, since 2017, you have been in Chinese four times. And as we know, Chinese was one of the key to delivering this protected medical equipment. Like I said, you've been in Chinese four times and you've spent about 60,000 euros on these four trips. This in itself is absolutely not disputed, because it is always necessary to invest something in order to get something out of it. But now we're going to figure out what you and these Chinese visits are actually going through, and I'm going to go chronologically. See, in 2017, you were in China with 110 Heads of State, Ministers and Entrepreneurs. Here we see your face in the corner. He was also the president of China, he would also be Erdogan, he was Putin and influential Chinese economists. And I'm assuming that you've also made some friendly connections at this meeting, met economists, met influential China, who could help us later. Then, in 2018, you were in Chinese and met with the Chinese Minister for Trade, the Minister for Culture and Tourism and the Presidents of Beijing University for Sport. Here we see you sitting at the same table and probably having a constructive conversation. Five months later, you went back to China for a week, and you met with the Minister of Science, Technology, the Governor of the Province, and you were also accepted by the Vice-President of the HighSentse Group. This is the group that Gorenje bought and only here for intermezza, because it's not really the topic of interpolation. HighSense owns Gorenje and at first you said you knew what it was like to fight for jobs. Now, here I should like to point out that in Gorenje, this particular company forgives a lot of people, despite the fact that billions of profits are due to a few million failures in Slovenia, in fact Gorenje closes here and that fight for jobs does not hold up. Next, fourthly, it was a visit at a lower level, but here for the fourth time you met with the Deputy Mayor of Sužu, the economists and you saw the Sija meeting, where 11 Slovenian companies participated and instead of just taking pictures here, you could actually put together new acquaintances, as it says here, “you are new connection” and from all of this you could then essentially conclude more matters, but look, you were the Minister in the previous Government, your Members are imagining how empty warehouses were, you in fact, I haven't heard you say anything yet, but your Members are constantly moving around this, and I tell them again, you were the Minister in the previous Government, and if you didn't know about these empty warehouses, it's another play on your account, so I'm also proposing to SMC Members that they stop doing it because you were formerly part of the coalition, you were the Minister. And Mr Restoration, I mentioned the 60,000 euros earlier, when, of course, there is no dispute in itself, absolutely, it costs, China is far away, it costs. From all of this, you could have concluded that you have developed knowledge, connections, and so on, and given that you were a minister in the previous government, you would have used these know-hows as early as March or February, when you knew or should have known that there was a shortage of protective equipment. Many countries with influential leaders have done so, and they have also bought directly. And don't deny that there can be direct shopping because the Court of Auditors has put you on a lie and said we could do it that way. And there are more doubts. I, once again, will not judge, but the answers are simply too few, given all the questions and all the doubts that have arisen in the last two months. One is whether you have been, I will say in some way incapable of knitting political acquaintances and acquaintances with economists who could be in contact with those 60,000 euros in air during the crisis. Or you have set them up - which is even more controversial - and you did not want to use it to allow intermediaries in Slovenia to serve on this account. Now, if I could judge, I would say that a better first option – that you were incompetent. Because this second option limits what Comrade Kordish has repeatedly pointed out. But, again, I'm not gonna expose it. So there are no answers, there are always more questions. And, Mr Restoršek, I have respected you as a human being, even before I participated in the cabinet of Minister of the Jews, even with you, but because of all these facts, I cannot support your existence or I will absolutely support the interpretation, because you cannot be Minister anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ms Monika Gregorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Now what we are listening to today is this explanation of the Minister of Economy's proposal to interpellate the economy, to say immediately, the essence of this whole interpolation is a lie, a political construct and a truly exemplary example of low political, low-level politics. In fact, the proponents of this interpolation count that if I don't know how many times you repeat this lie, people will eventually believe it. But I'm sure the truth will come sooner or later. Today, the Minister of Economy is on the stand because, in a truly impossible situation, he has performed a successful task and has provided sufficient protective equipment to ensure that no one is running out of it. And the greatest absurdity is that he was intertwined because he successfully completed the task. In fact, the world is wrong, I should have, I could have been intertwined if I hadn't succeeded. I agree. The process of obtaining medical protective equipment is right to be illuminated by institutions. It is necessary to review, perhaps some matter has gone wrong, but certainly it must be done by competent institutions, to identify possible errors. You just have to go by the letter of the law, take into account the rule of law. Here we have institutions such as the Court of Auditors, the KPK, law enforcement agencies, in the end these are the courts that are the judges. Parliament is not the city that judges and condemns. We have three separate branches of power, and it would be good if some Members still do not have it, but it would be right to read the Constitution. So today we have the real political lynching of the Minister of Economy, who assists him – and this is the saddest – all the major media, of course, with the aim of falling the government. But more on that in the future. I would like in particular to highlight the situation in which the purchase of medical equipment, medical equipment, took place in the beginning or in mid-March and early April. So, then, let me just read a brief excerpt from the article at 24 hours of 2 p.m. 4. As in the war, the rules of trade are no longer applicable, only cash is considered, suppliers want cash in a couple of hours, demand is 50 times higher than the offer, sales of all, masks must be paid in full and cash before delivery before the buyer even sees the order. Countries shall send their people to China with money bags that agree and buy masks directly from the supplier or purchase all production. The rules of trade no longer apply to those who pay faster and more, even if they have already paid the deposit of this mask and taken away. There are no cargo planes. Passenger aircraft were used for transport. Transport prices increased every day. China has even restricted flights. So I think it's clear that there was literally a war situation and a hectic. It is therefore right that today's debate should focus not on finding the responsibility of those who have solved and ultimately resolved the problems, but on finding the responsibility of those who are guilty that we have found ourselves in such a grave lack. Not prepared for an epidemic to make health workers naked and barefoot, so to speak, in the first battle lines. And yes, the responsibility must be borne by those who, at a time when they could act, looked away and stood still and waited for the issue to come to pass. I believe that our fellow Member, the former Prime Minister, did not even dream of what should have been done at the time, because he obviously did not know that responsibility, great responsibility, would come with the leadership of the government. And being Prime Minister isn't just talking at events. What helps the scissors and the canvas if you don't know how to sew if I help myself with some kind of charism? Therefore, it is really inappropriate and unworthy to listen to the testimonies of the proponents, so much so as to the number of fans that there were 13. Three, 404. You know, this is the information that the government, which then took over, the new government, would urgently need. And I'm wondering why the former prime minister of this data did not provide a new composition, a new government. Yeah, he obviously didn't have one. Apparently, he wasn't able to get it either. But I welcome all the efforts, all the investigative efforts of my colleague Pavšić, who has made a real effort and, as a real criminalist and forensician, explored this issue. Perhaps there is still evidence by the LMSH of incompetence, uncoordinatedness, poor governance and poor decision-making by the Minister of Economy. You know, they're really unworthy of your findings, because about incompetence, I think we can convince you of how this happened in the previous government. But empty warehouses are just evidence. However, when I hear about the obvious that the Minister did not establish or establish all foreign policy contacts, that no one has contacted, I do not know, I have heard the Prime Minister of the Republic of China and the direct organisation of procurement, I only remind you that this is what the former Prime Minister, who met in two years of government rule, has officially met with only one Prime Minister, Mr Orban, who is completely unrecognizable on the international political scene and who does not know much about crisis management. The findings were about war profit, about perverse profits. I wonder if the applicant even knows what the difference between margins and profits is, what are the related or indirect costs and what are the perverse profits of 10%, 20%, 100%, 500%. It would be right to serve with specific numbers, not to operate with blisters. If I go back to what the purpose of this interpolation is, of course, transparent, overthrowing the government, so the funds are not chosen, even unlawful listening to the minister. Amazingly enough, no one in the SD has any problem with this either. Let me just remind you of the statements made by your former President, and I think that in Tarcha, where there were also reports that Members and politicians were being illegally listened to, he was then able to say with determination that this was inappropriate, but today you are working with these people, with a political option that is not even a very interesting person in the background who belongs to the extreme part of the political space on the other hand. So, are you not embarrassed when the opposition is essentially led by people from the background, when the political left opposition is led by people from the background of the far right? But this is a thing that you're going to have to clear up on your own. The fact is, you're obviously judging yourself when you prejudge that there's been some kind of fraud, crime in these acquisitions, so we're in a situation essentially when a thief with his fingers points to an innocent and yells, "Take the thief." And where is the truth, why is this government so in the way, and why did you go to the first possible point, this is the acquisition of masks, medical equipment? Because the so - called dedicated suppliers were not capable, and the others were. So who else will be ready to cooperate when the Second Wave of the Epidemic comes? The citizens will then call you to account if they do not, because you have succeeded in soiling the work and efforts of both officials and entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The applicant has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u68	About the context of politics and when it comes, not when it comes, but when another wave comes, because now we are confident that the second wave will come, already in the National Assembly. You may suggest this, and we will vote whether it comes or not. I'd rather not talk about it. Who do I find politically responsible? The courts and judicial authorities are not competent to determine political responsibility. This can be observed only by the National Assembly, recognized and accepted by an individual in a political function or not, and today we see that obviously the only answer is no. Again, manipulation of empty warehouses, and the minister himself, who is being intertwined today, said: “The Department of Stocks was never intended to store protective equipment, never. However, the number of tutors seems to have received this number only if it went from 0 and 13 March 168 were all, of which 20, 30 were suitable, then only once it became in the government report that 168 were. So they just had some numbers. Which I don't know. We have already requested a long overdue record between Minister Schabedr and Gantar, and this government is so responsible that it has not yet sent it to us or at least showed us whether it has been misled or not. This reflects the excellent response of this government, in particular as regards transparency of communication and business, in the same way as when considering and preparing a procurement report. You have trodden it for so long that it is full of mistakes and deceptions and you still insist on some of the already proven and recognized errors in this report, and you are still stubbornly insisting. That's normal. Yeah, if you insist stubbornly on some wrong thing, it'll become real, won't it? Today I asked the Minister direct questions. But he only responded to one thing. Whether Geneplanet was chosen to carry out interstate business and the Minister replied that yes, he knew that it had been concluded before - he confirmed - then this company carried out a business and a donation of gratitude to China to Slovenia, which is and today we have also highlighted proved without any doubt. But it's two, and that's enough for political responsibility. We've had enough of them. You have purchased unnecessary and obviously useless boosters for patients with COVID. You have no doubt deceived the second conclusion proved by reason of the establishment of intermediary companies and prevented direct purchases. It was a pure political decision. She didn't have a legal basis, but she had political support, and you admitted that. It was recorded in the media. You never demented until this thing broke like one balloon and then yes, in a month and a half, what we said was wrong. Yeah, that's not how it works. You have huge pear jobs that accept everything that is going on with the Ministry of the Economy and these articles you saw when they were published, why you didn't react at the time. Now the post-festums of this matter are no longer credible. But then it would be credible to respond and explain why it happened, how it happened, and who decided to do so. I wonder how the coalition comments on the fact that the government has been deceiving the number of fans for two months, a good two months. Probably, it's the previous government's fault that this government cheated with a number of fans. I don't know that we're not talking about illegal wiretaps, but that's really perverse. And about when the second wave comes. Let's do it again before we get rid of it, let's let people get scared again, and I don't know what. As I know, the first intervention law or package of laws came out and with 1. 6. Once again purchases are made by those who are qualified to do so, who know what to buy, how much to buy, and where to check whether what they have ordered is really appropriate to what they need. We're talking now about FFP-2 masks, FFP-3 masks are assessing this I don't know what kind of doctors. One says it's okay the other says it's wrong. We have two institutions in this country that can only say that you can bring me letters from thousands of doctors. Two institutions may say whether this is appropriate for use in Slovenia or not by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and the Market Inspectorate. Only these two have that right. Neither the Government nor the individual doctor have it, but at the very least this right to decide the National Assembly, but this State with the Bor is on the coalition side that these acquisitions were appropriate, economical, transparent, efficient to confirm everything. Of course, the opposition did not want to participate in this stunt and will not and will not, Mr Minister, finally answer any questions. And don't keep turning the same sentence over and over again because it's not going to be okay. I'd like to recommend it. I could be wrong, but it'll be okay, because, I mean, you know how many votes you have, you already realize that you're going to survive this interpretation, at least according to the views everyone's told you. But that has other consequences. Above all, the reputation of the government, the reputation of the National Assembly, the reputation of the health system, the reputation of the military, the police, the reputation of civil protection. How many people and businesses, even honest ones, among them, in this National Assembly, in various rooms, in the last month, we have been muddy. Why? Because of your political decision. And there's a lot of people coming here, and they're threatening us, and they're gonna sue you. Yeah, that's not right. Why would they put us in the windshield? We can get some information from where, someone willfully "cheer" us, but it is interpellation – that we ask you questions and you give us credible answers. Let's give you a chance to defend yourself. But apparently, you don't have to defend yourself if you know what the outcome will be. Today's jury is not an election, today's jury is in here, there's 90 of us, but I don't know if there's gonna be 90 of us at the vote, and you know you're gonna get a majority that's gonna confirm that you've done a great job. But I still have, in all of this, proven at least two such serious matters that we should keep our political backs. We've had enough "instructors", we've had enough fans. No, we haven't had enough, you'll say, and you've bought very expensive and given the opinion of the profession, the least useful or non-useable, without any additional equipment, and you've been deceiving for reasons of setting up intermediary companies and thus preventing direct purchases. And for two large direct purchases we all know, in here, you've just decided, through a whole series of correspondence, that you won't do it. Why? You know it. And since you said that you were not a puppet and that you were not working on any instructions, today you take responsibility personally and only you. Once in this National Assembly, the Secretary of State tried to save you, and one of these two visions took you on his back, so someone on your team has a spine, or the head of this team, and I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Željko Cigler has the floor and Mr Jani Möderndorfer is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u70	Chairman, thank you very much. Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. It's not just us, 90, in here, a legislative body that has control and a supervisory function that has a legislative function, but it also calls this government. She's watching her perform the tasks for which she's been appointed. And today, as some of the speakers and speakers, colleagues and fellow Members have said, we are talking about ideology. Look, it's not about ideology. It is the public funds of the Republic of Slovenia where citizens, citizens currently watching this show, on television, despite low incomes, pensions, social benefits, are given to use them – for a good purpose – for the well-being of this country. And finally, for the second time, in a specific case, the money that is intended for protective equipment was intended, in the case of Covida-19. How have these things been done? The media and the government themselves provide a variety of information which suggests that very many things were least questionable, if not even uneconomically and corruptly used money. Today, some speakers have already said that 40 million and more million questionable public spending are at stake here. I will translate that means that we are talking about eight homes for the elderly, we are talking about the extra money necessary for Slovenian public health, for the poor unemployed and what Mr. Restoršek probably likes to hear and I agree with him, to support the economy. What was that money used for? And the numbers were, specifically, placed on the table. Further on, the protective equipment we are now talking about, which has been procured in an apparently questionable manner. Two days ago, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Social Labour met. The President of the Medical Chamber, as well as the representatives of the Home for the Elderly, said that for the protective equipment needed for their work, for the health of workers in health care and homes for the elderly or for the elderly themselves, for the insurance of citizens, there was no and there was no, sorry, we are talking about the huge money that was intended for this equipment, and the equipment where it should be is not. Is that an ideology? I'm asking. Citizens and citizens of this country, who have made funds available and elected us to these bodies, including the Government, indirectly, are counting on the resources they spend properly on their needs through taxes and contributions. Those who do not know how to do this, forgive me, in this House, there is nothing to look for in this Government. And that's what we're talking about today, and that's the purpose of this interpolation, and it's always been meant for this interpolation. And look, with all the different data that's being cited and talked today, what are you saying, what are you reading to us? Wait a minute! We speak from concrete data, from concrete facts that have been made available to the public. And it's not just us 90, that's what people in this country are following right now, because it's their money. And in their name, we work. And as for when colleague Prednik spoke earlier when Minister Plenković was in China several times and the question was raised why he was not with his fellow ministers, or our Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša spoke to the Prime Minister of the Government of China, as Plenković of Croatia did, as did Merklov of Germany, and for the benefit of his citizens, he obtained protective equipment and emergency medical equipment. And this government isn't capable? I'll ask you that. For the benefit of your citizens. And he doesn't know this form of patriotism? See, personnel and professionally, this complex matter, which was once carried out by health institutions and institutions, is the purchase of medical and protective equipment, personal, has surrendered to the Department of Freight Reserves in April. Why? Why? Mr Cantharutti, once, when he spoke about this matter in this National Assembly, said himself, it is humane and as far as knowledge is concerned, a weak institution for this. But then why did you give it to them? What was the purpose of that? Further increase the opacity and other goals through the purchase of medical equipment? And it has actually established an opaque and chaotic system for the acquisition of this protective medical equipment, and through various information from Slovenia, there has been one opinion that the situation is extraordinary, and this extraordinary situation so requires the conduct of Minister Restovalska and his team or Government. That's not true. And the other day, when Comrade Ferjan of the Slovenian Democratic Party spoke, he said, "Look what you're saying, because we have law enforcement and control authorities to look at it." Mr Minister, at a time when the National Investigation Office had already investigated the suspicions of these irregularities in the supply of protective equipment, otherwise his leadership had changed, and I do not know what the objectives are, but I doubt that we would not be too much involved in these matters. I must say that today we are being informed by the media that the department of supply reserves, led by the man you, Mr Restorationšek, has purchased, this is Tommy Trumpf, in the last days of May, just before the end of the epidemic, 12 million protective masks, and these are not suitable for health personnel, but only for personal use. And 11 million Euros worth of business add to the suspicion that it was intended to earn a selected supplier, which we have already talked about several times when we read about who supplied medical equipment, and this is Hmezad-TMT. It's the largest supply of masks since the outbreak. Mr Minister, perhaps you will be able to respond to what I am saying to you now, because it is the money of citizens and citizens of Slovenia and you are obliged to treat it responsibly. The amount of masks purchased here even exceeds the number of masks that came into the country by the beginning of May. And they did the job by rejecting the supply of masks to other verified bidders. And the deal was carried out between May 27th and May 9th — just days before the government decided to lose jurisdiction over the purchase of protective equipment, these personal protective equipment. And this: Hmezad-TMT went through a pharmaceutical inspection during the delivery of the plant, so no one can verify that the masks are actually effective and suitable for the purpose. And, which is very important information, I hope that the NPU will deal with this and, in the event of the guilt of appropriate sanctions, draw, according to information from several sources, a source, these are the same masks that the other bidder has tried to sell before this institution, namely Geneplanet, which is known from the supply of medical fans. And when someone gets involved, for example, when an individual who works in a responsible function, such as Mr Ivo Gale, who respects the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, who speaks as long as you detect illegal activity, you are obliged to announce it, and he did so with facts, Mr Minister, then such an individual is discredited, attacked and even physically endangered. He's got police protection. He had to get it. What government do we have that is happening and that is necessary? Further, when Dr. Knaflja, an expert in the field of ventilators or ventilators is invited, when he gives his opinion and says that out of the 13 most suitable devices, Geneplanet was last placed, then a man of expertise begins to attack, discredit. Yeah, well, who's gonna work and help with these professional matters, except for the profession? And I must say that law enforcement and control authorities should be more actively involved in these matters today. It is true that what many people have already said before me has been replaced by their leadership, but that is within this mandate. And if, at the age of 2, when the elections are held, or perhaps within the framework of these bodies of investigation and prosecution, the facts will be identified. And providing incorrect data on the free fans for the treatment of COVID-9, by which the Minister was actively engaged in a rather imprecise and illegal manner, and the procedure for purchasing this equipment is one fact which is justified by a lot of arguments, especially today when Mr. Bogunovič said at the outset, 13. 3. 2020 was the second largest clinical centre of 404 of these facilities in Slovenian hospitals. And what this government should ask itself without smiling at its mouth would be: why these devices were not accessible to our elderly fellow citizens and fellow citizens from their homes for the elderly, who had hospital treatment – not because of doctors, respect for doctors, but because of the concept of government, which it represents and deals mainly with strange purchases – was not guaranteed. And it is clear from the media reports that the supply was received by certain companies, regardless of whether these things were needed, that has been said several times already today, and no matter what the price. And as previously said, I would have thought of this if I were to say one thing in the microphone, that there are no advances, etc., that at least five buyers have been granted advances in 100% and the question whether they have been given bank guarantees. Geneplanet, as we have shown through the media, also had no privileges and privileges, although according to experts in the 13th place, according to the appropriateness of helping the patients with the carpet. And a direct and cheaper purchase than I said before, either with Chinese or as wanted to help by the SAZU or Akbada or similar to that made by Croatia and Germany, these things were neglected, put on the side and to the detriment of public funds and to the detriment of public health in the Republic of Slovenia. Sorry, this requires responsibility because many people are killed, their health situation is deteriorating, and there is a questionable use of public funds. And this necessary equipment has been acquired through organized disorganization, chaoticism and clienteleism, which has already been presented here several times today. The procurement system was imprecise, there was no telling who was responsible, who was deciding who was doing what. And that's very interesting, and this is Mr Cantatutti, and I don't know how much it is now, two months or how much, when you joined us in the National Assembly, you also said that almost half of the offers have not been reviewed, a little more, because there was no time and opportunity. Thus this important business for the public health of citizens and citizens of Slovenia was organised. And that is essential to say that the equipment that has been procured has been overpaid for 30 to 40 million euros or more. What kind of money this country needs, remember when we talked about various social benefits for example social activation and assistance to the unemployed, and at ten, sixteen million, they were pruning and missing, and inadequate fans and protective masks were overpaid without certificates. This is the third edition of Targeta, which talked about it, showed us where the representative of the institution, who has this business thing to do, took place. Mr. Minister, this is the value of this money, once again, six to eight homes for the elderly, where we are likely to be. And the responsibility of these citizens who are in nursing homes should be with me. The Minister, you and the Government should know that the overpayments under consideration from public funds were strongly needed elsewhere. And I'd say this, and I'd like to ask you how the recipient of the order is going to do, who's going to be given the order for the purchase of the equipment, like the media, who's going to do it, if an influencer calls him. How they should act at the Department of Freight Reserves if they are called by the wife of the President of the Government, if they are called by the Secretary of State of the Interior, if they are called by an MEP from the Slovenian Democratic Party who has power and a majority in this National Assembly with its coalition parties. If they are called by the former European Member or the current President of the Slovenian People's Party. Is that how business works? That's wrong, that's criminal, that's illegal, Mr. Secretary. I hope you understand, because we both went to Cayuh's high school in Celje. All in the name of patriotism and concern for the health of citizens. What patriotism, whose health, which has been threatened by such a policy, and how it was threatened and affected, we spoke two days ago on the Health, Labour and Social Committees. I don't know if you're deaf or not understanding. If you don't understand, then the question is your ability to do this job. Or, as said by fellow Member Golubovic, this core is awakening, but unfortunately true, it is now allowed in the Republic of Slovenia all. The authorities of persecution and control for leadership are under control, I hope they can withstand some independence, putting their hopes in it. [[Incomprehensible]] The rule of law is getting more and more on paper. The supervisory function of the National Assembly, in which we are also exercising it through interpretation and argumentative today, is clearly removed or questionable by exaggeration by the government coalition. This is also discussed by the European Union of Slovenia regarding freedom of the media, the situation of the rule of law and the judiciary, as regards developments at the Statistical Office, regarding non-compliance with environmental directives. At the same time, every Friday at 7 p.m., cyclists speak throughout the country to protest corruption and authoritarianism, which is expected to take place in the Republic of Slovenia. And when citizens and citizens “the death of Janshism”, “the death of Janshism” express strong opposition to this cry to the very kind of policy that I want to remove today and politically sanction the proponents of implementation [[?]] against Minister Zdravek Počvalšku, although we are aware that this is the responsibility of all governments. And Mr Minister Restoršek, the political hygiene standard in this National Assembly is a sandwich. A sandwich, a simple matter. The value of disputed purchases and overpayments in your disputed purchases of personal protection and medical equipment is several times the value of all sandwich factories in Slovenia. And, Mr. Secretary, or Minister Zdravko Restoršek, is the level of Member Dar Krajčič who has resigned because of the sandwich for you too high or do you not understand it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u72	Madam President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! I'll try to answer some questions in a few ways. First, on cooperation with China in the case of fans. Before 20 March, the Department of Commercial Reserves concluded contracts with four fan suppliers, according to also Geneplanet. Due to numerous changes in legislation in China, logistical problems, unfair practices by various potential suppliers of protective equipment, MGRT also wrote to the Embassy of the Republic of China in Slovenia. I spoke to the ambassador myself. And that's what you're mixing up, and a donation to buy. The request referred to aid in carrying out logistics in the case of the supply of fans. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office of the President of the Republic have also been involved in cooperation with China. In this regard, the President of the Republic met with the Chinese Ambassador of Slovenia, who reported this. All of these activities were, however, only one, aiding the Chinese country of Slovenia in logistical challenges in the supply of fans. We had to get these fans to Slovenia and we did this with the help of the Chinese state, their embassy and their foreign ministry. Unfortunately, what you've said doesn't hold. That's another thing. About the obvious who's paying the company in China for Siriusmed fans. None of this, unfortunately, is true of Mr Pavšič. I don't know where you get this information from, and I don't even know what this design of yours is doing. I'm thinking where you got this information from. But I've already said that the purchases we've made have been difficult, a very uncertain deal that we couldn't do if we played with him the way you want and what you're saying now. You know, this isn't a circus that you know about the terrain from other times. These were serious matters in which we had to think about all things. And how to protect our common interest. And here, too, you have reminded me that in the first intervention you gave me an answer to the question of when I was bugged. I didn't know that until today. But I found out from your intervention. I didn't exactly deal with it, so I find this very interesting. Something else about these Siriusmed air 30 fans. According to the information obtained by us, the contracts with Geneplanet were concluded by UKC Ljubljana, namely for SternMed fans and Celje General Hospital, Siriusmed R30 fans. And that was before the plant entered into a contract with Geneplanet. The Ministry of Economic Development only wanted to verify and obtain the opinion of the hospital which Siriusmed R30 fan assessed as technically appropriate. That's why we got in touch with Dr. Podbregar, head of the intensive internal medicine department, who also professionally confirmed the suitability of Siriusmed R30 fans. Later, on 4 May 2020, the expert advisory group of the Minister of Health, led by Prof. Bojana Beović, found that Siriusmed R30 fans are suitable for the treatment of patients with Covid-19, provided they have adequate accessories, pipes, moisturizers and compressors. One more thing about the Hmezada contract. Today we heard again some interesting information about additional purchases. They didn't buy anything else at the office. The treaties were all signed earlier and, also, your so-sung whistle, he participated in these matters. The contract with Hmezada was concluded in early March for the purchase of masks for general use. It was the purchase of masks that Slovenia needed to provide and protect citizens. We also use such masks today. We repeat masks for general use and for this purpose and also use them. The offerer was the deadline for delivery of 30. 4. 2020, but he's already started delivering 16. 4. 2020. He's a long-standing business partner of the ZBR, which I didn't even know about, or the company, or the fact that he's a long-standing, and that's what your informants know. In ten years, he has done business with him for more than 2 million. They obviously have good relationships in this institution, and that probably also made a decision about the mask business. It does not claim that Hmezad first wanted to sell masks that the state had previously wanted to sell to the plant Geneplanet. Because it's two completely different masks. In fact, the plant concluded a contract with Geneplanet for the supply of FFP2 masks. The contract for this transaction first stated that masks subject to the contract must contain appropriate documentation with CE certificates. That was a mistake on both sides. Such a certificate for ordinary masks is not necessary and the contract, basically with this company, was signed by Mr. Černe, an annex for the extension of this contract - please listen to this - was signed by Mr. Gale and is now the last annex with which we reduced the price and signed by the last director or current director of the institution. This error was corrected by the ZBR, at the request of the current director, in negotiations with Hmezada, and also by the new lower price of masks. The original price for one mask was 0.56 euros, the signed extension annex and the basic contract, Mr. Cherne, extended contract, annex, Mr. Gale, fell from 0.56 euros to 0.52. The original price for purchasing masks under this contract was EUR 12 million 300,000 and the final price was EUR 11 million 500. So, 800,000 less. We have saved almost EUR 800,000, with what the last director has now done. And your singing whistle made this deal on this basis, as you now say, we bought extra masks. We didn't buy any extra masks, only the warehouse came with what was signed before. Now, a few more things about this, and we've talked about this a lot, and I have to say again, because you had so much to say about prices that I can tell you two things, compared to average prices, already with repairs because we were clearing VAT without VAT. If the price of the current government's protective equipment is added to the VAT and the price of FFP masks and fans purchased by the current Government still deviate from the price of the previous government. And you can't help, the numbers are very, very cruel, namely, the FFP2 masks, in the government, the previous one, which I was in, but was the president, your president, Mr Marjan Sarec, who cost 4.64 euros apiece. During this period of overpayment of masks due to the crisis, we were able to buy 4,14. Where is this time component now, and who is responsible for it? Let's take a look at this. The fan you're talking about earlier, and I'm going to say something about golf, and the fans in the government of Marjana Sarca were bought 49 thousand 154 euros per piece, and in this current government for 41.33, I'm talking about average prices. Again, we have a crisis, we have abnormal high prices, and already there were high prices. Let me answer that and you, even though I'm not here to ask you, I'm here to answer you, and I'm going to keep doing that. Now, here's a few words about the office's function. The institution is being talked about how the poor, how they can't do anything, how incompetent they are, how we, the Government, are ugly, and we set them up to do the business of the century. I would like to make it clear, once and for all, that, in accordance with the Law on Trade Reserves, there are two public economic services, namely the public economic service of the creation and consumption of state supply reserves and the public economic service of the creation of mandatory oil reserves and its derivatives. I can't tell you the stock number, 90-days, one and the other, because it's a secret, but know that it's numbers that clearly and loudly say that as a team they're obliged to be able to do the kind of business that we've been doing here. But now you can nod as many times as you want. This is a company that currently has 65 employees or a company. The Government shall set out in the five-year programme a programme for the creation of state reserves, mandatory reserves of oil and its derivatives. It contains, and is now important, certain types and minimum quantities of each type of goods that must be available for basic supplies: in the event of major market disturbances and instability, in the event of major natural and other accidents and in the war. This is important information when you talk about the institution not being able to do these things. The institution is responsible for all key emergency matters, in two important segments. And in exceptional circumstances, we estimate that such an institution is the most capable of intervention in the field of central procurement. Then why couldn't the agency be suitable for the purchase of protective equipment? It's a big question again. Now, basic supplies under this law are basic food supplies, non-food products that are essential for people's lives, with strategic raw materials, reproductive materials needed to provide production or which are of particular importance to the defence of the country. Once again, the institution has 65 employees, it is an independent executive institution whose purpose, competence and competence are to provide vital goods in emergency situations. And that's where it turned out, and that's true, some people don't understand it or they don't want to understand it. Above all, we have found that 65 employees in the institution are obviously insufficient to be able to make purchases quickly and in particular efficiently in crisis situations overnight. That is why the Government decided that we had an inter-resort working group that took over part of the tasks of the institution, namely the choice and selection of suppliers, which were also expected by the Security Intelligence Service. The office only chose the ones with whom he signed the contracts from the selection he received. And what is the role of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology in this matter? For all contracts concluded, the Institute has previously obtained the Ministry's consent. In accordance with the Law on Trade Reserves, the Ministry has given its consent to the selection of the Contracting Parties and to all contracts concluded by the Office. In this context of the MGRT consent given, the Ministry – and this is now important – is that you will say once again that I have just confessed something because you will take what suits you from my submission – only the consistency of the content of the contract with the five-year programme of state supply reserves, with which the government has entrusted the Department of Commerce with the central procurement of safeguards. The verification of conformity of content relates to the subject matter of the contract, to the provision of financial resources, because they must not sign contracts if we do not have the financial resources provided and the assessment does not include a review of the execution of public procurement procedures — what you read to me. It is also important to point out that this type, we are talking about fans now, during the COVID-19 pandemic, this Siriusmed Air 30, I think I was right to say, many other countries, significantly bigger than ours – France, the United Kingdom, Great Britain, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Russia. And this isn't the same guy as you told me that UKC Ljubljana didn't order Siriusmed Air 30, which is true, but these countries ordered this. And if you want, I'll tell you who bought the canceled 110 fans that were after we decided not to complete the contract. And I can tell you at what price. These were purchased by Hungary, all 110, at the price of 49,000 euros, and you can also go and check this out. Now there's one more thing. Speaking of supply via suppliers, I have to say again that we have concluded contracts with suppliers in order to secure the state budget and not pay advances. But those who were, you've told me many times today, were secured by a bank guarantee. Even if you say 50%, you'll see that the supply was covered. Now you're saying that we should make them directly and pay 100% of the advance and thus threaten the state budget. Do you have any idea what the situation would be or what they would do to me? I don't think you understand. I don't think you know how to work. You're talking about advances, margins, I don't know what else. I doubt you know these things, what they mean in nature. There's something else about cases of lost equipment and failed purchases from abroad. In mid-March, Germany entered into a contract with two companies in Zurich and Hamburg to purchase 15 million valuable protective masks – Germany, not Slovenia. The state carried out a 1.5-euro remittance on the mask, but the masks never arrived. This information is also available in the newspapers. In Stuttgart, an advance payment was also made for the supply of FFP-2 protective masks amounting to EUR 700 000, EUR 2.33 per mask, but the masks were not delivered, so the company then communicated to the State Bureau of the Criminal Police. Finland paid €4.9 million in protection masks in advance, but at the time of taking over the protective masks, they found that they did not meet the agreed standards for use at the hospital. The company in Hong Kong was also the victim of fraud after denouncing 2.4 million euros for the supply of protective masks that never existed. The Slovenian suppliers to which we speak have also been confronted with attempted abuse, but the state budget has not been damaged as the Department of Stocks or the State has not implemented advance payments for the purchase of protective equipment without adequate insurance. Now, I've been here, because I don't know how to understand, I get the impression that I was in China or that I wasn't in China. I was given the impression that I did not have enough communication from a colleague of the party's representative, whose president was at least once more in China than I was, but I also concluded that some of the communications that enable our companies to show figures from behind on this market, you know, with the growth of our exports to China making it easier to enter. I visited there in one picture of our company. I think it's Cablex and New Town. Now I've tried a lot of criticism based on officer data. Look, I've been trying for a long time with my colleagues at the Ministry to deny the nebulosis they've been writing in such and other forms, and I've failed. Now everything you're building here today on this base is based on different quotations. I'm not going to quote these newspapers, none of them because I don't want anything bad to anyone, but I want you to be a little critical. Sometimes it would be good if you asked us a question and we'd tell you. You're talking about an affair, what an affair. We have taken, as the responsible minister, the decision that you have all the data in electronic form immediately and no one needs to detect anything. For each of these communications you establish with some in the institution, you will receive an answer because there is only one truth. The truth is that the vast majority of people have made a responsible and proper effort to obtain protective equipment on time under the best conditions and that some have had time to collect documentation, to do so today, to eavesdrop. I'm really grateful that I found out about the date of the wiretap today because you told me with this that you probably know who was doing it. It's the same about Mr. Gallet. Once again, I will tell all of you, Members of Parliament and all of Slovenia, that Mr Gale was the director of this institution, because the director was in the hospital, he was authorized to do so. No one forced him to sign any contract and now you're talking about when someone reacted in two months and it wasn't immediately and it was his obligation to indicate suspicion of such or other pressure is a little strange. I don't get or answer direct questions to him or to the public, and again I don't get an answer for the signing of three very interesting contracts, but they will have to be studied, which is what I'm not going to be doing right now. If it's necessary, I'll say something further on this subject. Golf fans, Mercedes. I'll tell you again. The 13th of March, April 10th was a period when we were in a situation that couldn't buy anything in the way you're talking. We bought that or contracts with only four companies that could supply fans. What you're saying doesn't hold. What's available in November for Christmas like I said on that show wasn't what we were interested in at the time. Also your repeatedly mentioned UKC. I don't think he mentioned it, but I'm not going to name the type of fans who are once more expensive than they were delivered today, but I don't think Hamiltonians, if I'm not wrong about any place holding my word, have been delivered yet. Once again, you can't, we can't pass the time component of the event on March 13th, April 10th. Number of fans. I insist that we have received information from the Ministry of Health that 168 fans were suitable for working with COVID-19 patients. A hundred times you can say there are four hundred of them, maybe now that they've got them, I don't know about that, we've been working on the demands we got. And lastly, I will conclude now in this round, on certificates in general. In the area of hygiene masks, no regulation or technical legislation, nowhere and in no way provides that the hygiene masks should be accompanied by any certificate and that their technical suitability has nevertheless been reviewed by the BVQI control house. Otherwise, FF5 masks 2 and FF5 3 and fans are required because they are products used for medical purposes and they require and require their technical suitability by means of certificates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Nick Prebil has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll be very brief. Minister, you're deceiving again. You're talking about the UKC getting these fans. I have here a message from the UKC saying that these R30 fans weren't ordered, but they got one for inspection and put it in storage. You were also talking about some of the better fans that were ordered just before the crisis and now about the assessments of these fans from the previous Government, but look, there was a lot of deception in this way and then, at the following time, your colleague Jože will tell you who has already disclosed you, the government, how this data is organised by VAT, one without, etc. And you didn't answer my question about why you were in crisis if there were 13. 3. According to the Ministry of Transport of these 168 fans enough, yet forced to order these 220 inadequate, most expensive fans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The speaker, Mr Pavšič, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u76	Yes, Minister, it's great that you insist on number 168. You just missed something important. First of all, all fans in Slovenia are 168, of which 20 to 30 are useful for COVID patients. Then you heard on the show, in front of you, Mrs Godec said, you can nod, she said before you, it was taken, she said, we had no fans, no fans, you didn't deny it there, but you said no, we have 168. Then we had them on the 25th of May 281, today we already operated with number 404, without UKC Maribor. What does the government report say about how many Maribor has? Now we've got the information. You know how much, you don't even care no. She's 49. So there were 453 fans in Slovenia on 13 March. 453 fans. That those who prepare your texts will also hear. And we're moving on. The contracts between the Department of Commerce Reserves were according to you, the two of you said, concluded before the 20th, that I had revealed to you the date when your conversation was recorded, and that is evident from the documentation that was on the show, today must get this bitenc, you said, today. And when was the contract signed? I'll show you March 18th. But you don't think we can watch and see. It is very easy to manipulate a position of power when you send a selectively prepared report to Parliament in which everything is beautiful, everything counts, you are the best, excellent, and we are total fools, and we do not even know how to compare it to media posts. Minister, whether we go back in time or you think you're going to intimidate me with this. I'm not ashamed of my past, not at all, when you mentioned circuses. I'm not ashamed of it at all. And if you think by screaming you're gonna scare me or punching me on the table, you're wrong. I've been through a lot, and I'm going to be a lot more. On March 16, you received a dispatch from the Ministry of China, a dispatch. And this is your colleague or secretary at the KPV, the cabinet of the Prime Minister. On 16 March, you received a dispatch from China, which says to appoint a Slovenian broker for the conduct of the business. Yeah, and you set it up. You're the one who set it up. Geneplanet didn't have a previously signed contract. You said no, Geneplanet will do this job. On March 16th, Jelka Godec published it on Twitter, extract from the dispatch, March 16th, MOFKOM, the Chinese Ministry. Ah, only in logistics will China help. And because of the logistical complication, the Chinese ambassador came here to visit the President of the Republic and accidentally told the journalists who had been gathered there that we were doing a great job, all those diplomatic things that he was willing to say at such events, and that he had brought 20 fans with him, yesterday, he said. This happened on Tuesday the 24th, so yesterday it would have been 23. Where are these 20 fans in the government procurement report? They're gone. If Geneplanet delivered them, they must either be in the report or not consistent or you were mistaken. They don't count dates, they don't go together. You could've thrown that report away for 14 days, but you're on basic stuff, you missed it on your time-table. This isn't about money. Although 49,000 euros to be sold to Hungary, that's great. There's something else I want to know how you know. Or are you still in contact with them today, and they told you, that's a business secret. Yes, the company's business secret is now published by the people who wrote you this text. Let's be a little self-critical. We can think a little bit more. Here I have Mr Bitenc's email to the Secretary of State and the former Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Environment so that I will not use names needlessly. And it says, "I'm sending another offer, in brackets," I've already read this to you today, but now it's more of a context that is supposed to be confirmed today. On 17 March, Geneplanet expected a confirmed offer from your side," because it was sent to MGRT. It wasn't sent to the Department of Commerce. I know it was sent. Unless he was a minister at the time. “Respirators are now waiting in the warehouse and can be delivered in three days.” writes the director of the company that supplies these fans. Let's be after you mention some facts and everything that's happened, and look for emergency exits and rescue plants, at least be consistent with dates, because this isn't going to work. Then we move on, and now we will have to get professional confirmation that your business is excellent, excellent, without completely any mistakes. Andreja Potočnik writes to Matthew Podbregar in General Hospital Celje: Dear Prof. Dr. Podbregar, politely ask for your expert opinion on the following transporters. We need them to purchase from the country for the Department of Commerce, ” the purchase of a country for the Department of Commerce. Who the hell are you kidding with? And the answer, I'll tell you the answer: “R 30 is the most basic model of the lower class, which allows optionally”, and so on, “The price is very high. For this price we could give their best fans R50 plus with all options. Since the price is very high, the supplier must provide the service of the devices and the corresponding guarantee.” I hope he made sure of that. But there are no options in the report. We've got naked foster homes that aren't appropriate. Since he replied on the same day, it was all March 17th, but one, not an hour later, once again Mr Podbregar answered. Compared to R30, Mindray SV300 is a more advanced fan and allows additional measurement of carbon dioxide and saturation of oxygen, which is important for monitoring patients. The next day, March 18th, the contract with Geneplanet was signed by your E.R., from what we heard on TV, it is not clear whether you scurried to sign the contract or to pay the advance, as far as I know the commercial value, is the way to pay the basic element of the contract in business. So at the same time, when you were hurrying for the payment of the advance, you were also hurrying for the signing of the contract on behalf of the State, on behalf of the Department of Commerce Reserves with a specific company, which proved to be true. It all came together. And Mr Tonin, you won't convince me what happened before, I don't know, I can tell. I asked you, but you didn't deny it. In order for a meeting to take place between March 10 and 12, when there was no government, you did not confirm or deny it. But 20 fans were supposed to be brought by the ambassador of China on March 23rd. That's not in the report. Geneplanet didn't meet his offer either. He was supposed to bring 20 fans on March 23rd, and then he was successful. You've been squandered somewhere. Because now, whether the Ambassador of China is lying, whether the President of the Republic is lying or the Slovenian Press Agency is lying or all three have done it against you, I will use the word that we have already heard, the set and they have conspired against you. No, it's just that the indicators with the clearly verifiable elements are pointing everyone against you. You missed a few of them on TV, you missed a few or some of them from the cabinet of the Prime Minister. That's why I can't accept it. In fact, I cannot accept it and, in fact, the matter is becoming ever more incredible from moment to moment. On May 4th, Dr. Beović is after an expert committee, you now said, yes, they are suitable for use with special equipment, but you still haven't obtained these equipment. 453 educators were in Slovenia on 13 March and you still insist that the purchase of these, I say not bad, because I cannot assess this, but the least appropriate or inappropriate to treat patients with Covid. You still insist that this was a masterful purchase. No, you've thrown 4 million euro out of the window that we don't need, and now we're hearing, Uncensored also reports that there's also that mask business with the same company. Something doesn't add up, because it says these masks, the hygiene masks, can be examined by anyone. Yeah, well, that's why you bought those rubber masks that cut people's ears. And me, people are asking me where these masks are right now. What are we gonna tear down the elastic? Are we going to use them for what they were actually meant for? And these very well-paid masks. And that indicates economics, suggests prudence, shows that really top-notch intelligence has been established in these non-transparent purchasing flows. Yes, you were hurrying for the state's business, your man wrote an e-mail, the state's business to be run through a private company. And you confirm that you're in touch with them because you know exactly how much money went through those extra 110 that we didn't want to buy, of course, because in the meantime a couple of things happened, yeah, and then you said, yeah, now the devil took the joke, and now we have to break this thing. If anyone else bought, for 49,000 euros, these foster care units, that's their problem. But you allowed this company to buy them because you gave them an advance, with your personal involvement and also the ambassador you contacted to help with logistics. You said it yourself, you can laugh right now you told me to let you, colleague, read what you read yourself. [[…]] Well, they're going to bring me a magnetogram of conversation, of your answer, over something when it's done, and it's funny to you. Again, congratulations, really. Good job. The question is, for whom?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to ask you to warn your client colleague, if we are already referring to the fact that we are accurate, that we are citing some data and that the applicant is already reading some of the answers that we all have, but it would be very correct to not just read certain cuts, as it has now become a practice and to which this whole structure is built. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u79	Mrs. Janja Slug, I have you at this point [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u80	But to read [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u81	I would like to remind you that you have asked for the floor for a procedural proposal. [[…]] Procedural proposal [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u82	And I want you to warn your client colleague to read the full answer in the name of precision where it says [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u83	Member of the Commission [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u84	R3 with optional forms [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u85	Madam Ambassador, a moment. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u86	In an epidemic, it would be a suitable fan for wide-ranging use. [[…]] This is the part he left out and I'm asking him to read it all.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u87	Madam Members, I will now read to you the full article of the Rules of Procedure which speaks of a procedural proposal. This is Article 69, which says – “A Member who wants to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, to take the Chair’s word as soon as he requests it. The speech of this Member shall not last more than 3 minutes. There is no debate on the procedural question or proposal. The President shall decide on the application of the Rules of Procedure, except in cases where the Rules of Procedure are adopted by the National Assembly.” Now, you didn't talk about the Rules of Procedure. You have made a substantive comment on the discussion of the proposaler, and this is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and we have heard a number of explanations, all the presidents here, what a procedural proposal means, so I am giving you a reminder here. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, the first warning. We continue the debate. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the following word, Mr Bojan Podkoršek is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Vice President. My purpose today was not to discuss at all, at the very interpretation itself, for one very simple and more than obvious reason – at a time when the minister was actually leading a team that had the acquisition of protective equipment and when the interpolation itself occurred, I was a member of the SMC and the interpelled minister was my president and hygiene speaking, it is very clear that, of course, it is inappropriate for me to discuss anything at that time, because I would also not have any serious effect, given that the concept of interpretation itself, we know what it means and we also know when it is successful. It is successful only when a coalition or part of a coalition agrees to do so. But I'm talking about one other thing that, of course, I think very clearly define, even in a lesson and a warning to all those who play so easily in this National Assembly and say things, just like that, because you think you'll do well because you're going to like it and so on. Today, Mr Jelinčič has made an easy statement which I do not even intend to respond to, nor to politicise, nor to answer, whether he is right or not. But I'd like to warn you one thing. You know, Comrade Victory Jelinčič the Noble, isn't he a Member and has parliamentary immunity. Franz Duck and has immunity. And as far as I know, they're even suing each other in court, and they're looking for the right to do something about it, but they both have parliamentary immunity, and you both have the right to come to a pay phone here and also to defend yourself and use all the possible touchups of these cameras. My daughter does not have this, nor does she have immunity, she has no opportunity to perform in this Chamber and it is therefore uncompromising, here, of course, I make it clear to all those who use relatives of Members and Members in order to be liked and to show their own right by not giving any evidence of this, it seems to me a simple but silent act, especially when you mention the word “speaks”. You know what that means. There are no legal remedies. My daughter's old enough to use all the resources to find somewhere else. But it is also right to talk about what a Member can actually do, because it was more than clear that Mr Victory the Elinčič Noble did not do this because what he knows he did not do because now he has discovered something, that is because someone ordered him something. Because Mr. Victory Jelinčič is known not to do something out of the heart and out of the soul, but to do so as is appropriate, he also knows where he has been going lately and who he has been talking to very much. So I'll say the next sentence. Let's think before you say anything, because it's not that simple and simple. The second thing that seems very important to me to mention is, you know, today I have heard quite a few phrases in the introductory debates: “Where were you, where were you, when we were saving the country” and what do you know about everything else? I offered to volunteer, and I'm in a risk group, and they told me very quickly that I had nothing to do with it. In addition, as Members, we also had other tasks and other obligations, not least in Parliament, each of us had his own responsibilities to do, so to report to the Member “where you were when we were saving the country” I find it rude, literal and sloppied. For the first time, the executive branch of power is the executive branch, has all the levers and powers to carry out the tasks, and is finally paid for this work. The messengers are here to carry out their dress and perform it at the time of the coronation. Now, can the MP call someone and ask what's going on? That there would be no misunderstanding, Professor Igor Emri called me and told me very clearly that he wanted to make contact because of all the known facts already published on the website, I do not intend to repeat them. I didn't interfere with this story myself, and I spoke on day 18. 3. with three key people who gave me one information about how many respirators there are and how many we really need, the other about who's getting all this and then I found out, of course, because I didn't realize that they were buying hospitals at the same time, and the third time Professor Igor Emri will get an answer. I didn't call the President, the Minister of the Economy at the time, because I have his number because I thought it was absurd to ask him something that I know he didn't even write the answers and what I'm now asking and writing him and I don't know what else. I don't even have a phone number from Mr. Cantharutti, and I couldn't even call him. But I called my former colleague Andrea Potočnik and asked her a very simple sentence: “Why don’t you answer Professor Igor Emri? It doesn't matter what you say to him, I don't care what your decision is, but let him answer, not leave it on the days without an answer." That's all. And she said, "As far as I know, he's already got the answer." I said, "Thank you very much." Then we heard ourselves shortly after she checked and she said to me: “Jani, you were right, no one answered, we forgot a little, he will be answered.” And this is where we made the dot. So much for the business that some people talk about. There's something you'd like to say. You know, there are relatives and relatives here. We never talk about Rajkot in the National Assembly, never, never mention any Rajkot, but he's a terrible relative, but you know from a lot of people, and we all know that here, and we don't even have to answer the last name, and we know who we're talking about, so those who say you're not ashamed are ashamed of you. You know, you attack me as much as you want me to have thick skin, and I have consciously become a public figure, and I know, and I've realized that I'm going to be able to eat something down, and I'm going to have a battle if that's okay with me or not. But attacking people who don't have these options, you know, only a lab knows that, and only in the lab can they do it perfectly, only one thing has forgotten the old jokes, the ones we all know now. So much for my debate, and I'm going to say one more thing that seems crucial to me. I am a little disappointed at the discussion of colleague Monica Gregorčič mainly in the part where she can deal very nicely with people and place them and give them to who they are, what they are, what they know, what they don't do and how they are recognized. [[Incomprehensible]] I'll just give you one case. She compared the President of the previous government and the current government to who is fit and who has visited whom. I don't know why you like to compare these comparisons. You know, I'll tell you something else because we can look at it from other perceptions. Just as John Janša is recognized abroad, I would not want to be. I wouldn't want to be recognized that way. I'd be ashamed. I'd rather be anonymous in that case. So these comparisons seem a little bizarre to me. I wouldn't be surprised to hear that from the una bench there, it doesn't surprise me, but to hear it from the liberals, I have to say it touched me, because I don't know what we're into, then the liberals are turning. Personal disqualification in this House has been known only to certain individuals, and I do not generalise all fellow Members and Members so that we will not be misunderstood, because most of us in this room appreciate you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u89	I've heard procedurally. My colleague Verbich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u90	I am sorry that there is no Vice-President, because I would sooner ask her one question now that I will not be your president, but given that I have listened carefully to my fellow Member's speech just now, the question simply arises to me, with what right a Member may comment and quite inconvenient way on the debate of my fellow Member. That's a first. [[talking to each other]] Whatever. I would ask the chairman that in the future such a person would say a personal view of a matter is not a matter of today's subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u91	Dear colleague Verbič The Rules of Procedure of what you have highlighted do not limit so that as long as everything is within the scope of a decent debate I see no problem in this. Anyone else? Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u92	I'll get you out of trouble, Mr. President. What is the meaning of the debate from the Slovenian dictionary of the book language? The debate is an exchange of views on what is important. Now, if anyone says any important thing on that side, I can discuss it with him, if I discuss it with you from behind, but if I discuss it with my colleague Gregorič - Gregorčič, I'm sorry, I apologize - this is a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u93	My colleague, Bojan Podkoršek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u94	Dear President of this National Assembly, thank you for your word! Dear Minister for the Economy, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues in particular a nice greeting to today's proposal for an interpretation by Mr Pavšić! Early in the morning we had already heard that in the history of Slovenia there were, of course, 45 interpretations of one successful other less successful one needed the other less. I have always insisted that I will not talk about names today, but I will talk about ministers, presidents of governments and Members of Parliament and Members. I myself advocate that all Slovenian history, I respect the national flag, the national anthem, that I respect all the Presidents of the countries, whether you like or not, and that I also respect all the Presidents of governments in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, and all fellow Members and Members, regardless of which work they come from, left or right. Perhaps today a few words about a person, about a minister who is intertwined. Now I have to admit personally that I don't know him very well, but I do know his history, of course, a little bit from when he was, of course, in previous jobs. Since I am home from the countryside, I know that when he was the director of the dairy, he worked conscientiously and hard for all the farmers of that part of Slovenia. Of course, when he was in tourism in Podčetrtek, I know he worked for tourism, for that company, and especially for tourism in the Slovenian scale. When the minister was in the previous government, I don't think he had, as far as I can recall, any problems in the previous coalition, nor did this minister have any problems with us when we were in opposition all the time. Of course, I followed him when the minister in the previous government was in office when we all started him with the same date, but I asked him twice for one company, and I have to admit that he responded that day. In short, as Minister of the present and his business path as far as I know him, the person who works in the profession he has undertaken is prudent, and above all works always for Slovenia, for our citizens and citizens. I'm sure of that. As I may be, everyone in this room has probably made a mistake in his life. It's an integral part of our journey. Perhaps a few words about those who have proposed this interpretation today. Look, as I mentioned before, we started this term together. The Prime Minister is sitting in the previous Chamber. Once again, when he was elected Prime Minister, I respected that. This was the majority opinion of this National Assembly. Well, Mr. Sarec, don't blame me now, of course, when the first snow was on January 27th, you're like a driver of this, if I call it, this bus, including this minister who's been intertwined today, of course, stopped - but this bus was probably still on the highway - and you said you wouldn't drive anymore. Surely no one in this National Assembly has ever realized what awaits us in the coming months - the hardest time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. I am grateful to you, Mr. Sarec, that you resigned at that time. I think the Slovenians will have been grateful to you for many years, and that you have given people the opportunity to take responsibility for this crisis, which we did not realize at the time. I'll be here, too. I probably can't get past the fact that there's been some kind of mistake. It is. But it's unfair and unfair all that we've been listening to for three months. Like I said before, I respect all references and all the heads of government. All the heads of government and ministerial councils have had the entire Slovenian history for a hundred days to prepare themselves for the work ahead of them in the mandate. But this crisis, which I have already mentioned, has not allowed this government, and these ministers, President of the Government, of course, it is unacceptable to me what you have done during this crisis. I don't blame anyone for not helping, but that you've always been throwing pollen at these ministers, condemning these ministers, including the one for which today's interpretation was, of course, transmitted it to the media, as a result of which the media carried it to the street. Maybe it's funny to someone, but to me, when I was elected to the second term of this National Assembly, I wasn't laughing all the time at this crisis and I'm not laughing today. Maybe someone put on too many shoes in this mandate that we started together, but it is the responsibility of all of us, because we were elected, I think we all got over 100,000 votes together to work for these people who are probably watching us today. Today, I will also say, because in this National Assembly, we are one older, the other younger, see, because the world did not start with us, especially young Members. The earth's surface didn't start spinning with us. I think it's our job to respect each other first. And as I started out in the introductions, I also want to finish. Our main mission is to respect those who elected us outside this House, secondly to respect each other and third to respect ministers who have been elected in this Assembly and who have sworn to a table that is not here today. Everything I've been listening to today and what I've been following the last, these months, when Slovenia was in a very big test, I don't think it's good. If any of you, your esteemed colleagues and colleagues think that the winner will come out of this interpretation, it's a mistake. I'm not the oldest in this National Assembly, but I'm not the youngest. Dear Minister, I wish you to continue to work for the well-being of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u95	Thank you very much. A colleague of Andrej Chernigoj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u96	Mr President, thank you for the floor, distinguished Mr Zdravko Restoršek, secretaries and secretaries, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I only enter the Slovenian Chamber of Democracy as a Member for a third month, although the building is not foreign to me and I am its permanent guest for the last 9 years. Every day I enter the main entrance with the thought that I must represent all the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in a fair and dignified manner, especially those with whom I live and have been entrusted with my voice. I write each word carefully, and later, with the dignity of you, colleagues and colleagues, I say here in the Slovenian temple of democracy. Everything I have experienced in the last three months, I have neither experienced in the European Parliament nor been used to such a discourse here in the temple of democracy in the past. When the word of the world should be spoken to us, on the other hand, it grieves me that some colleagues and colleagues here in the temple of democracy speak with such ease and with unfounded accusations as we do not speak, do not speak of our own, let alone in the neighbouring wine temple. I am very careful that the pronunciation does not become a naked asset of power. In the sword, then the street speaks. [[Incomprehensible]] I'm aware they kill words first, then the sword. But let's go back, get back to the facts. At the end of January, the captain resigned. Whoever's been rocking the ship isn't my jurisdiction to guess. The day after that, we entered a very difficult period that we did not witness during this life cycle. Living with Covid-19. You called for elections, and the others, although with differences, we stepped in together. Now I'd like to point out a few more chronological facts. Yours, the Sharčeva Government ruled exactly 534 days after 138 days, experienced a constitutional indictment by the Prime Minister of the Government of which we have abstained. Colleagues and colleagues, held up. And finally, the Minister's interpretation after 281 days, the 14th government is subject to many different rules in exceptional circumstances. Today we are considering the first interpretation on the 90th day of the reign, on the 90th day of the reign. The first hundred days he doesn't listen to the spirit. In view of this, you are predicting and preparing more today's sessions where ministers and ministers will be able to prove that they work well and prudently, especially for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. All these accounts of the opposition and calls you to protests and early elections, when we have a successful and solid coalition, I judge you for action out of despair and in the fight for power. When you release the helm before the storm starts, you want to come for the same helm as soon as the storm weakens or the mastral starts blowing, it's unworthy and unworthy of me to be called captain. Every day, when I drive from Illyrian Bistrica to Ljubljana to this respected house of democracy of the Republic of Slovenia, I listen to the most listening commercial radio, where I very much like to listen to the leader who comes from our ends, that is, the coastal, respectfully reanimating what we do in the temple of democracy. However, I fear that with such action, dear opposition, and with such easy investment of interpretations, you will evaluate the tools of the opposition and evaluate democracy in the Republic of Slovenia. So I'm afraid that next time I'm going to get a new milestone or mark on the air and between people, I'm going to kick ass for a good horse, and the working ministers deserve an interpolation for thanks. Since we are all in the Chamber aware that the Minister of Interpellation will survive and that some use this instrument only for media attention, I am afraid that the cease-fire and all further interpretations will be praised. That is why I stand here firmly and respectfully and with all the known facts, and from all the known facts, I will not support the interpretation of the economic minister, Mr Zdravko Počvalska. I wish him and the Government a successful job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u97	Thank you. My colleague Marko Koprivc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the words of my distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members, the distinguished Minister and the team from the Ministry! Allow me first to respond to the criticism of certain members of the coalition in the sense that the opposition has done nothing at the time of the crisis or the Members of the position. Of course, that is not the case, and such accusations are really very pointless. I myself also acted as a volunteer, among other things, helping the weakest in shopping in the store, etc., but this is not essential in today's debate is not the subject of today's debate, but I thought it was good that we also respond to these findings. And, of course, we all acted as Members in accordance with our mandates. I'd expect the same for the government. Acting in accordance with its powers. I believe and rightly so that the Government would try to do its best to prevent in some way the consequences of the crisis, both in the economic field and in life-saving, as you have repeatedly said, Mr Minister, and of course in all other areas. I am sorry, however, that this government has taken advantage of this crisis in many ways for some other interests. These are serious accusations, for sure, but unfortunately, unspecified events, events give rise to this. The government has used certain measures or measures to strengthen power on the one hand; repressive measures have been put in place that were not necessary and, on the other hand, certainly in purchases of protective equipment themselves, we cannot shake the feeling that they were intentional exploitation, exploitation and commissioning. Mr Minister, you did not answer clearly why, for example, you did not decide on the offer that was sent by Mr Emri from SAZU. On the one hand, Mr Cantharutti, the Secretary of State, said that the issue was that this supply was recognized. Later it turned out that the problem was that there was no intermediary to deliver these things. In short, unfortunately, it gives me the feeling that it was only in this particular business or supplier that they would not get, perhaps not you personally, perhaps not your client, but those close to the top of the government would not get the necessary commissions. That's, excuse me, economic crime. No less and no more. The same applies to the purchase of fans. You have acquired fans that warn the medical profession that Covid is inappropriate for the treatment of patients. You got masks with those rubbers and the handkerchiefs. I want to know where these masks really are. Who used these masks? They're gone, they're gone, you've divided them into congregations, and they're probably in some boxes. In short, these are all very, very serious questions and answers, Mr Minister, today, I'm sorry, in these eight or what hours you haven't given. I'm also interested in buying 20 million masks 14 days ago. That's what the media are reporting today. So you bought another 20 million masks, a few days before the end or the end of the epidemic. What's with the masks? Where are these masks? The only purpose of buying these masks is financing, maybe not SMC, SDS, probably? And one more thing, I ask for a clear answer, was whether it was up to you, Mr Minister, to decide whether it was up to the President of the Government or someone else. You explained earlier in the replica that the Department of Freight Reserves should be competent for the acquisition of protective equipment. Before that, you taught us all together that without an intermediary, it is said, the companies that deliver the matter are not good because the institution is not qualified to do so. Please explain now whether the Department of Commerce is qualified for procurement or not? So, look, I believe it may not be your fault personally that you've been given instructions from elsewhere, but please say that and stop this practice. I don't know if you're ashamed. Are you not ashamed, SMC and Desus, which allowed this government to perform and all these worst practices that this Government is carrying out? If you're not ashamed, I'm sure he's ashamed of your constituents and voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u99	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Janja Servants.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Well, that was now a living proof of why we didn't come anywhere, because the same questions are asked, no matter how comprehensive the answers are, they can be multiple, they can be written, but still, there was no answer, and then it's still like that. But what I'm really finding out today with this debate is that we obviously have one super minister, one Chuck Norris among ministers. Why? Because he obviously could get to know everything and because he obviously had everything under control, he could think of how many fans they are, what they are, what they are useful for, he should know all the lists, he should know everything, control all the supplies, know all the suppliers, all those thousands and some of the offers he should examine and choose among them, and then finally he should call China and arrange a thing there. So it's obviously all in one person. But it wasn't really like that, was it? In fact, let us ask ourselves, who was the one who compiled the list from which Minister Restoration got the information, how many fans did it take to purchase? This wasn't Minister Restoration. Who checked all these strong offers and providers from different perspectives, with regard to price, in terms of security? This wasn't Minister Restoration. Who signed all these powerful contracts for these millions that are being talked about today and manipulated some numbers? That wasn't Minister Restoration. Who, though, was the one who hoped to give his face and who hoped to take responsibility for this whole story? And that was Minister Restoration, because there was no other. Because there was no other way. Let's say that you have written very precisely here, and I have already read in the consideration of the report who was within the protocol that was designed and was clear, who is doing what, and you have this in writing in the government report, I will not read again because I have done it before, but when we reach the final stage in this protocol when the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology agrees, let's see what this consensus included. This agreement checked exclusively the consistency of the content of the contract with the five-year State Reserves Programme and the provision of financial resources. This is what the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has agreed on, not on any masks, on whom it will lead them, or on how it will lead them to – nothing, just to comply with the five-year plan and to financial coverage. That is precisely why the Ministry of Economic Development has not given consent to certain treaties. It didn't work. And we talk all the time, "they asked for it, the minister made a deal with it" and the one with the third. Let's see who actually signed these contracts. 59 contracts and 10 annexes were concluded. Of this, Mr Ivan Gale signed 11 contracts and 3 annexes worth 69 million. Mr Anton Zakrošek 13 contracts worth 17 million, Mr Černe 34 contracts and 6 annexes worth 139 and one other, Mr Dušan Shelih one worth 9 million and Mr Toni Rumpf one annex worth 30 million. But between these names there is no Mr. Zdravka Restoring, it is simply not. He's not here. And today this whole debate is essentially going on in the same way that the first famous show was conducted on April 23rd – the pieces were ripped away, these pieces were glued together, the show took place, and this show showed only those things, just those statements, just those interpretations of developments that confirmed this story. In the field, we can hear journalists walking around these days wanting some statements. I also received several reports that some of them were already in the same story, and so on 23 April, statements were made, and because they did not fit into this story, they were not published. Also the electronic messages of our colleague Andreja Potočnik, who was mentioned several times today, are not here to defend herself, by the way, she is not here to defend herself, but of course it does not stop anyone. And colleague Potočnik made some electronic messages available to prove - what. They prove that she didn't do what she was accused of, so it's said she didn't do the mobile, that she didn't yell at anyone. But it also proves something else that the one who declared it was actually lying. Why? Because this person wrote these e-mails and said in them, I now quote Mr Galet's email: "The minister has already appointed Mrs Andreja Potočnik to be in charge of coordination between the MRT and the institution, and although she has been less active in this work in recent weeks, we are at the office with work, desire and enthusiasm for Mrs Potočnik." That's what Mr. Gale wrote. He also wrote: “Mrs. Potočnik was the guardian of Cross Continental, and she communicated with them all the time and arranged business. Although Potočnikov acted as one of the few who really wanted to get masks and other equipment, it doesn’t matter who brought her.” That's what Mr. Gale wrote. And he wrote something else. “Andreja, and so on, thank you for all your efforts so far.” That's what he wrote. But as has already been said, Mr Gale was the one who also signed those three disputed treaties, where MGRT could not give consent. Why not? The first was the OECD d.o.o., the signatory to Gale, 2000 three-layer surgical masks worth 3 million, the contract delivery deadline of April 23rd, before the expiry of the contract delivery deadline is 1 April, so the expiry was 23, 1. In April, the Institute proposed the conclusion of an annex to a contract proposing an increase in prices and thus a total of EUR 3 million to EUR 4.9 million and an extension of the delivery deadline to May 15th. Of course, the MGRT did not give consent. Then the story with Hamdy Global, too, was signed by Mr Gale, who signed the supply of FFP2 masks in the amount of almost 10 million 9 million 968 thousand. And what? Again the same story, the institution once again proposes an extension annex, but this time with a company that we all know today that the company was known for its frauds in the past and that its annual traffic in 2018 was only a million and a half, and we are now talking about why and with which companies, and so on. Neither did MGRT give consent here. And another contract, and this is SLA marketing, which is very interesting when we also talk about who are the recipients of different emails, who received everything on their e-mail addresses on private, on business, and I don't know what else, I'm going to get to that point. So, also from SLA marketing, which was signed by Mr Gale, the value was EUR 1.8 million and signed a contract when, after things had calmed down so much, the warehouses were full enough and the Minister gave explicit instructions that it would be more rational to sign contracts and no longer agree to all contracts at all costs. It was unusual for this contract that the supplier had already supplied 1,4 million protective masks on the date of signature, i.e. from a total of 1.8 million. But there's something else out of the ordinary about this. For from this company, for the first time I hear about them, I also received an electronic message on Monday, April 20th. The matter says, "I don't know how to address it." And what SLA marketing says, I will not read the name and surname, but even if anyone wants to see it, it says: "We delivered 1.4 million masks in four days." And watch it now. For this reason, the MGRT did not give its consent; for these 1.4 million masks it did not give its consent. And it says something else here. We got the contract further, plus 5 million type 2R masks, signed it on Friday, and immediately paid 3 million masks for the price rise forecast. Now we don't get the signed contract back from the office. Of course not. Because the previous ones couldn't, because the previous MGRT stopped. And here's the sequel. The former did not comply with the legislation, but they did sign it. And here's the sequel again. As has been said, it is very easy to operate on certain flat-rate claims, it is very easy to say something in mind. Now I will read what my colleague, as a proposalr, did not read as far as Dr Podbregar's opinion is concerned, but let's say that Prof. Dr. Matthew Podbregar is one of the two regular professors of internal medicine in Slovenia who have a European degree in intensive medicine, one of two. And that his opinion counts for something. And the part that was released from this e-mail that I couldn't read is this: "R30 with optional forms of ventilation and control would be a suitable fan for wide use in the epidemic." Yeah, he's also talking about what the proponent read earlier. No doubt about it. But that's what he's saying. And that's the way, you know, that's the way you rip something out, you let it go, and you get together and you just have what you want. In addition, Dr. Podbregar added: No type of fan allows non-invasive ventilation. But when we talked earlier about Dr. Podbregar calling Mindray better. Yes, he did, of course he did. But that's what the same supplier offered, and that's public information. So, the same supplier. And what is the truth? That Mindray couldn't really get any more because otherwise they wouldn't have taken Mindray. This information breaks the whole story. But she's being crushed because no one's ever said that in its entire life. So we choose here or this email refers to one of the two same suppliers. Therefore, to claim that they wanted to have another opinion in order to be able to conclude with this supplier was a complete nonsense. And that's not how you do it. It's really not working. This is like that meeting of the Labour Committee, which last turned out to be after all the people invited to go to the frags because she went to the frags because the meeting had been called to mind. But I'm going to end up with one more message. This isn't an e-mail, but it's a text message. So, Target was on the show on April 23, 2020 at 8:00 p.m. And this message that I will now read was sent on 23 April 2020, 19.44. The consignor was Mr Ivan Gale and the recipient was Mrs Andreja Potočnik. And this message reads: “Andreja, I'm sorry you didn't support me and the director. It's too late now. Because if she supported us, I wouldn't beat you up on Target. And because you're not us I'll just be you."
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u102	I think my colleague completely missed the point. We didn't need any fan so urgently to justify the system at any cost. That's the main message. We had 453 fans on March 15th or March 13th, and you keep forgetting that. We didn't need any, no proper, no inappropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u103	A colleague of Bosniak Koražija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u104	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. I will start today with Prime Minister Janez Janša, who is also on Twitter affectionately called “Twitter Marshal”. In the morning, when he was sitting there and I saw him tweeting very well, and I must admit that unfortunately he did not follow the debates and views of all the Members who had just handed them over, and I am also sorry that he was not in any real support of Mr. Restovalšek, because I expected him to listen to him, but also somehow, I will say, even with a speech of the body that indicated that he supported you, quite frankly. In fact, you were then, and both of you were actually talking about that, too, you were talking about the position that you thought what the rest of the groups were, that they were primary writings, and also Mr. Janez Janša wrote on Twitter that they seemed below the level of position. And then I thought about what would actually satisfy you two to have some literary and artistic value. And then I was thinking in the direction of, say, what's suitable for today's session, like a pot, a kitchen, a political kitchen, then an interpolation and stuff, and I just came up with the idea to take this Slovenian proverb that says, every pot finds its own lid. And I must admit, you and Mr. Janša have met very well here. Mr. Janez Janša as a pot, you as a cover or like, we say well in Styria, you know well that every writer finds a girl [[?]] . And I have to admit that in this case, just to continue this literary matter, I'm going to say that it actually comes to you, I could say that you've become some kind of an economist. And I'll tell you why. In fact, for everything that's going on between you, and also what's going on, when you're passing information and these things, it's always working very much like under some pressure, and also the economy, the pot is basically known as a thing that just works very compactly, under the pressure of this case, and also your relationship is very much based on some economic cooperation and also profit and capital. So, what do you want me to say? And the problem is that this economy pot, as I'm going to name you two now, is if you can [[Laugh]] In fact, it's also known after that, because we've learned that today, when we've been listening to the views and the discussions that you've had, that you're very, but when it comes to someone wanting to take a closer look or that you want to have an insight into these things that have been cooking, I'm going to say, in this economic pot. That, on many occasions, you may become very tense under pressure, which is unfortunate because it is right, because also Mr Member with one of the opposition or pardons, the coalition parties said once on the show, I think it was RTV, that we are actually Members here in Parliament, in fact, that we are looking for the truth. I think Mr. Daniel Krivec was, if I'm not mistaken. And that's true, that's right. In fact, we are Members here in the National Assembly to look for and find the truth in one way or another, and, in fact, the citizens from us have also chosen us to be here in search of truth and also of falsehood, whatever we look at the matter from which side. And it is also appropriate that you then provide us with all the information that is correct, as well as all the information that we should receive or would belong to us to find out. Now I'm just going to continue this story with, I'm going to say, a literary story with these cartoons and pots ahead. Well, Mr Restoršek is an old political cat, it has to be recognised, and he can also properly attach his pet or pot whenever necessary. For example, one example is this Slovenian tourist holding company. However, he is also guilty many times, and this is also what Mrs Janja Slug once mentioned that sometimes he may be acting more than an elephant in a porcelain shop, and also quite often some pot breaks, hot or loose. And I'm just talking about Adria Airways, for example, the case, because then the thing was sold under the price, and unfortunately there were a lot of workers left on the road. Then I'll tell you why, dear Velenje and Gorenje or Gorenje Hisense now. I've been to Gorenje several times, and I have to admit that this represents another place of mine in Slovenia, but people are really cool, it's nice being with them. And in fact, I have to admit that I was very hurt when I found out that Gorenje was either showing bad or forgiving, but it is also true that when Gorenje was sold to this Chinese company, Hisense, you were the minister. And I also expected you to be able to monitor a little more closely what is going on then, or I hope that you will also do everything now to keep as many jobs as possible, because in fact not only Velenje, because they are not just businesses or factories in Velenje, but they are in fact all over the Balkans or even later in Logatco in Slovenia, and I hope that you will do everything you can to save as many jobs as possible, I think it would be great that everything could be done because Gorenje or also Slovenian citizens and citizens deserve it. There is also another matter that is very much on my mind and this very loud painting of the Magna factory, Graška. There was a lot of debate at the time about the need to look at not building up these agricultural lands, which are in fact the most productive or fertile, and unfortunately this has happened. And what is in fact the most tragic in this situation, precisely this coronavirus, is that we have very poor food supply in Slovenia and in fact such land would come just as well for processing or also for food production. So I hope that you will be more sustainable and ecologically informed in the future, and I also mean this for the whole Government. Look, the fact is, if we don't take care of how we live and how we live, others won't. And I agree, for example, when I listen to this debate that we should participate more, I agree, because many times the problem here in Parliament is that we don't listen or not hear or get lost in translation and this story varies. Many times, however, it is this notorious tweet, on which sometimes real wars are going on, and I hope it will not be today, because you mentioned Mr. Cheferin earlier and thanked him, and I hope that Twitter will not explode. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u105	Thank you very much. My colleague Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u106	Mr President, there was once again a debater in front of me, who was far from discussing the subject, but it was no big deal, as that is how we know which way the extreme leftists are discussing it. The first thing I have to say is congratulations to Mr. Restoring. If anyone has listened to his debate today, I am sure that he can see that this interpretation is really very much on the hard ground. He said and argued as much as possible. In practice, he answered all the important questions that he or she had been asked, said everything that was essential and what was happening at a time when there was a need to respond promptly and responsibly. That is why all congratulations, distinguished Minister Restoration. You were one of the people far more exposed to that work, along with the President of the Government, John Janša and Matthew Tonin, and I must say that you have done your work with the utmost good, for the good of the people, their health, for the good of all Slovenes and Slovenes, and believe me, another such interpretation, and the SMC party will have 7.8%. Great! Dear colleagues from Charcz's party, let us do one more thing and you will see the popularity of SMC increase, because it is worth it, because when you shit your pants, forgive the expression that I have to use when your President of the Government shits his pants, Mr. Restoršek has decided to sidetrack the species with those that we are dealing with for people and that we are dealing with Slovenia. It's priceless. No one can take this away from Mr Restoration, nor from Desus, no one can take this from New Slovenia and no one can take it away from the Slovenian Democratic Party. They are courageous people who have proved what they can do and when it is bad, then it turns out who is in the right place and they have proved it. Now there's one thing. Why do you think this interpellation was a hundred days before the government passed, filed against Mr. Restoring? Why do you think? You know why, it's about revenge on Mr. Sharc, his clients, his extended deadlines, SD, Left, etc. It's about revenge, but believe me, no revenge is useful, it's harmful, and it's unacceptable for any democratic society. Mr Sharpe, when he realized that he was unable to drive the government through this difficult situation, he decided as he had decided, and he calculated, he probably did not make his own decision; he must have had this criminal association here, I call it. Or shall I say, perhaps the deep country, the uncles in the background, I do not know how to express myself that it would be right for people to understand this correctly. But all together, this team, they lived in clouds, they were convinced that nothing could touch them and that whatever they did was okay, it's good and they'll always succeed. Well, look, this time it was their account without the innkeeper. And thank God it finally happened once. and I am waiting even more, and I expect that you will also be Members and Members of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, to find that this was a huge mistake and that it was not the right man in the right place to lead the government, because he was fighting the entire government. He's an individual who only cares about himself and wanted to do it to suck up the SMC, suck up the SAB, the question is, what to do with SD. On the other hand, he had a silent agreement with Levi that they should leave the government, or that they should no longer be a super-coalist party, and so he thought, in addition to amending the electoral legislation, that it would be nice to move on to the next term and get the majority on this side, become a relative winner of the elections and form a new government. Before that, no one can hide his eyes; these are facts that are indisputable and the only truth. Thank you to all those who have participated in this battle and that we can talk today about the state of our country and how we have overcome this crisis, which no one has expected and which is the first in the history of Slovenia. The results are excellent. We can all be proud of this together, and we all have to thank people, all doctors, nurses, all those who have done well. It says again to the minister, the entire government, the entire coalition that we are, I will say almost unharmed come from this extremely difficult situation, from this crisis. And, you know, if someone has done well, believe me, that people find it regardless of the pressures and attempts to reduce the power of that good result achieved by this government and these coalitions. But you are, of course, God help you, on the other side where you weren't able to do your job. And now I'm going to focus on two, three things that seem very important to me. You'll understand why. I will read three quotations from individual political analysts who have very clearly defined themselves to certain things, as well as this interpretation. “The affair of buying medical equipment is politicized, I expect that Restoration will defend itself not only because it has a coalition majority, but because I think it also has arguments on its side. I think that this pumping affair about the purchase of medical equipment has been quite politicized and here is the very context of the moment in which it happened. There are a whole bunch of elements from which they have made a big design," wrote political analyst Sebastian Jeretič. Next, next. “I think that the interpretation itself is very, very on a shaky foundation. Some well-founded readings can't be detected here. These interpretations, which are now being tabled and announced by the opposition, see the expression of some desperation of the types of left opposition, even in the light of the fact that the current government has been very well faced with crisis situations." Political analyst Dr. Matevž Tomšič. And another: “How should the Minister of Pavlovalsk, who had previously been properly involved in the left-wing governments, be troubled after a few days in Janša’s government. Here I find it difficult to get rid of the impression that it is more frustrating for recent ruling parties and so on. These are all quotes, and this quote was signed by political analyst Dr. Matej Makarovič. And dear colleagues, to conclude one thing that seems very important to me, which is an urgent need to be pointed out. Who else is supposed to whisper to the whistleblower? Tomaž Vese, head of the Court of Auditors and a candidate for politics. How could the Court of Auditors properly investigate the affair of the mask if the President of the Court was to secretly advise the whistleblower or skeptic Ivan Galet prior to the outbreak of the affair. Bojan Fire. And it goes on: According to some new information, Ivan Gale, whistleblower or stinger, as well as the central character of the mask affair, was to be acquired with the President of the Court of Auditors, Tomáz Vesel. According to sources, this is expected to be the end of April at the headquarters of the Department of Freight Reserves. This meeting between Galet and Vesel, which is supposed to advise, is supposed to be a cover-up for Galeta, as the official records of the office of this visit by the President of the Court of Auditors do not reveal. There should also be no record of this meeting. Here's the interesting thing. Why has John Gale not mentioned the conversation or meetings with Tomaž Vesel so far, nor has Tomaž Vesel said so, although both of them had numerous media performances since the mask’s outbreak? How could the Court of Auditors properly investigate the affair of the mask if the President of this Court was to secretly advise Galeta prior to the outbreak of the affair? The political context is also significant. Tomaž Vese is one of the candidates for entry into politics, even one of those mentioned between potential new faces or the new electorates of the transition left, and Happy would like to use the mask affair to launch his political career. All these questions are now publicly asked by Tomaž Vesenu, and his answers will be published as soon as we get them. Dear colleagues and colleagues, now we see the stripes, then we are slowly becoming aware of who Gale is. On which side was this whistle, or I will not say the whistle, set up to try together to devalue everything the government has created, done, and managed to pull out in these difficult circumstances. And today I've heard so many discussions about these fans and so on. Then I'll read one piece. On 12 March 2020, Slovenia had at its disposal a total of 26 beds, equipped with fans all over the country, according to collected data from the Government of Marjan Šarca. This was Charche's readiness for Covida-19's coming epidemic. This is about the information that former Health Minister Aleš Šabeder had. In UKC Ljubljana three fans, in Maribor four, Novo mesto three, Celje five, Murska Sobota two, Golnik two, Izola two, Slovenj Gradec two, Hospital Trbovlje two and Ptuj one. Total 26. This is the truth about the willingness of the Sharcha government to the coronavirus. So, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I hope that these figures, once again repeated, have contributed to slowing down at least citizens and citizens to understand the true truth. It's a farce, it's a ploy, it's a matter of, as I said in the introduction, revenge for SMC and Minister Počvalšek. Therefore, I must make it very clear that I will be very pleased to oppose this interpretation, because I am sure that what Mr. Restoring said today in this National Assembly is credible, extremely well reasoned and this interpretation cannot be understood in the end as if, as I said earlier, you take Charc out of the mouth a lollipop and, of course, imagine the child starting to cry and Charec is doing just that. I expect Mr Sarec to slowly understand that he is in the opposition and that he is to blame for this, because he was unable to keep the lollipops in his mouth. Unfortunately, he fell out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u107	Thank you. My colleague, Marjan Sarec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I didn't mean to speak at first either, because Zdravko was a minister of rest in our government, and I must say that we worked together properly. I, against him, against his work, in this Government, our Government, have no such clear evidence that I would express it in any way here or that anything would even be personally offensive to Mr. Zdravko Restovalska. And, we don't talk today either, at least we shouldn't talk about what happened under our government and what didn't happen, but I have a feeling that today's interpretation is against Ivan Galet and me, like the former Prime Minister of the Government. And, Mr Restorszek, I would very much imagine if Mr Marijan Pojbič had defended me in this way, as we have now had the opportunity to hear, which is personally discrediting me. You know, Mr. Pojbič, because I also thought it was silly when you saw it in the New Year's Eve, on social networks, and I didn't comment on it, but I don't know if it was right for one member when you were photographed with another member who just switched into your client, did I? In short, what do I have to say? Such debates as you have just enjoyed or can be monitored are debates that are “decent” and are also appropriate to your customers, and also because of such debates, people in front of television screens, except those on Nova24, which have a special filter in between, can see why so in this Slovenian policy and such debates that you produce there, on the SDS page, also cause some resistance and then, finally, what is going on. As I said at the beginning, we are not today on the interpretation against me and against our Government, but I feel again as I felt at the session when we discussed the famous report of your Government, which you have done with your hair, which you have produced, I do not know how long that numbers have somehow worked out for you. And today we're watching reruns, exactly the same sessions. And I will not quote, quote, all the debates that I have heard today, because I have listened to them carefully and some or many of them, from the side of the coalition, are going towards me, what I have not done, what I should have done, and with whom I have met at international level and other matters. I listen to all sorts and why I gave up. We know why I gave up, and when I gave up, and like I said the last time I gave up, it wasn't you, not the future government, not the part of the previous government that's in the present, it didn't dream of what kind of epidemic is coming and you were dealing with writing a coalition contract, you were dealing with the departments, and you were dealing with other things. Because if this virus were so familiar to you and you were so aware that it was coming, then there would also be something written about it in the coalition contract, and even a coalition contract would then be written to predict a fall in economic growth, if we were to do so. I am aware that in politics and in this National Assembly there is no saint, not you, not me. We're all people with our thousands and thousands of mistakes and maybe some good qualities. So also Mr Zdravko Restoršek and this interpolation was not directed at him as a person, personally and in any way, but the interpolation was written because we saw what the numbers were and now we found that we had over 400 fans in public institutions, which were also in charge of purchases, for the purchase of this equipment. And that's why the interpolation was written, and you can call it a free file, you can call it a school file, you can tell her whatever you want, you have all the right in the world to discredit, to blur, to divert attention and to divert attention back to the previous government, and that's why there's already been a debate on Twitter about what wouldn't happen if our government acted in time. But you live in a parallel world. You think the bikers are like this outside because someone's paying them because I don't know what they've been given, and that's why they're cycling. Yeah, if you believe that, fine. But in your SDS client, you also deny global warming. The government Twitter is occupied I don't know how long it's been since your party and we've been watching quotes from the event when we were at the nomadic corner and we're putting back on some of the old stories that we've already put into place and we've long ago admitted that what happened was and that we need to move on. We need to move on. And you get caught up in ideology, in the confusion, in the confusion, in the ignorance of everything, you discredit us every day, what we left behind, what we didn't leave behind, etc. That is why I am responsibly saying that Mr Restoration has certainly not made purchases because I would have remembered it myself, but it was someone who ordered it, it came from somewhere and we have heard some names before. But when you heard us speak some personal discredit. Mr. Pojbich, with what right do you designate people as you mark them? Do you personally know me? No, you certainly don't know me personally. I'm sure you don't. To know so much about me that you give labels like these to everyone else, you're treating us with what I don't know. Yes, you know that, it suits you, and that's why, Mr. Honourable Minister Zdravko Restoršek, I would like to think today first of all about who's defending you and who's defending you. I understand that your party members are defending you, because you're their president, they're defending you, at the same time, by mutilating me, how incompetent I was, how different I was, how I didn't know what I was doing, that's their right. But I'm not as offended as he's trying to show that I'm insulted now because you're in the government and I'm not. Far from that, because this government we are looking at today is a wonderful proof of what would have happened already in 2018 if any of those parties who then went to our government had already gone to the government under the leadership of the SDS. Here we have the answer to the palm of our hand, and we have clear empirical evidence. That's why I'm not offended. It is right that those who report to us non-cooperation who tell us that 2018 was unable to come together and I do not know what, it is right for those sceptics to see why 2018 did not go to this government because we are looking at what kind of government it would be. Ideologically oriented towards the past, far from operationalism. In 24 hours, I don't know how many quarantine orders. People come in on a plane, they come back right away because they weren't informed it was gonna be quarantined and so on. In short, if you think you'll be able to present this interpretation to people by clapping you, not like they did at the beginning, because they were brought, and actually they were asked to give you a round of applause at the end, if you think the people watching it will applaud you and believe you, I don't think they will. Yes, you will survive the interpellation, I believe, because you have enough votes in the National Assembly. I'm sure they'll survive it politically. But those who have mutilated you, Mr. Rest, in 2016, 2017 and then even at the time of our government, today they praise you for all the weights. They praise you for all the weights because you went to their government. When you're no longer useful to them, they'll just throw you away. And that's what I told you before you went to this government. And that's what we're showing today. And now I'm going to repeat myself again, and I don't want to repeat myself all the time when you're crying about how the opposition was being hunted under your feet, for one month there was no opposition, no criticism in the media, no criticism. When did the criticism start? When we saw you get it. And Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you said how could we be even more transparent, but should we buy and publish on social networks? You are. Mr. Tonin and you were just competing who's gonna be at the truck earlier. But more importantly, at the time of this epidemic that we haven't seen. We haven't seen Mr. Gantar anywhere, so it's an epidemic. In short, it belongs to the health department. You've all been busy. And in the end, you thanked the health workers and everyone with a flight of planes. I also greatly appreciate the army and would not be disturbed, I am not disturbed by the structures of the Slovenian Army, I do not mind that the Slovenian Army shows up because it is our Slovenian army. But we weren't at war. We were in an epidemic. That's why F16 hunters weren't in place, but it would be more convenient for health workers to pay that supplement quickly, to have more than that. And that's the whole point. That is why once again, Mr Restoration, yes, we have cooperated properly. But when you joined another government, you just started using practices like someone told you to do and as you agreed. And that's probably what you've been negotiating for a month before our government finished its term of office. Forgive me if I may have had this discussion a little bit, but I've been listening to discussions all day, as I said, about Mr Gallet and myself. Ivana Galeta is not here today, she can't defend herself, but I've decided to speak and I'll say these few words so I won't see that I've been quiet. But I do know that on the SDS side this will not come upon any gods any response, because they see their truth, they have their own view of the world and they have given me the 99th day of our government not the interpellation, but the constitutional accusation. A constitutional charge for something that I was, at least, responsible in politics in this country of the Republic of Slovenia. That's why I think it's extraordinary, extraordinary, I'm going to say, not exactly proud to accept what we're looking at today, that these people are defending you. Think about it. I know you won't back out, I know you'll survive politically today, for sure, but maybe you'll think about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u109	Now, my friend Pojbich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u110	Yes, thank you, Madam President, because I've been mentioned a few times in person, I think I respect actions. Mr Šarec said I don't know him well enough, but I don't need to know him personally either, because I don't, I know those who are in my family personally, and thank God I don't know him personally. But his actions. He had a year and a half to prove his abilities and proved what he was. The breakup of the government, the resignation, no concrete reforms in the year and a half and still could be listed. But I'm not going that far. Again, Mr Šarec is underlining, trying to manipulate in all possible ways, pressure in one way or another on Mr Restoration, on Members of the SMC and so on, that they must be aware of something. I am sure that the SMC party, together with Mr Restorative, has made a responsible decision for this coalition, which has proved what it is capable of. In the meantime, like Mr. Sarec with his team, he also proved what he could do, and this he managed to quietly squeeze his tail between his legs and resign as Prime Minister of the Government, leaving the entire coalition to. [[Incomprehensible]] The results, Mr. Sarec, of which you have just spoken, your Government, are clear. You were the first person to be responsible because you were the Prime Minister, but apparently these were too many shoes for you. And all you have to do is talk about how she got the equipment, the masks, and so on. Excuse me, I was listening, I was totally quiet. I was quiet. So listen to me to finish. [[advertising from the hall]] That's all I want to say. When you push someone's way and what was wrong with the equipment, I would only remind you, Mr. Sarec, what about that school and the investment in Kamnik. Explain that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u111	Thank you very much. My colleague, Igor Pecek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Now, the point of the procedural proposal is to discuss, but this is not the purpose of my debate. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues. The decision to make sense of the purchase of goods directly from the manufacturer or through the intermediary is, in my opinion, a matter of business judgement and of logic, especially of the one who buys, after considering all the arguments that are in favour of one or another decision. However, given the experience and the knowledge I have gained after more than 20 years of working in the economy, unfortunately I cannot pass over the fact that I stress and say that direct purchase regardless of the arguments behind it has more advantages. Two are crucial in my opinion. One is speed, the other is price. However, if you feel that it is better to buy goods through an intermediary for such or other reasons, you need to be aware that you will also pay extra for this service provided by the intermediary. And the business aspect of the arguments is open to both options, but usually when the customer has the appropriate knowledge and competence to carry out a particular business, almost most of them decide to purchase directly, as has been said before for two key reasons, prices and speeds are right. And it's gonna be hard for anyone to convince me otherwise. That's why in the procedures of getting me protective equipment according to mine, let's say this relatively simple business logic bothers me a few things. And the first thing is certainly misleading, misleading the public with information. The Department of Freight Reserves had the opportunity to purchase protective equipment directly from the Chinese state-owned company. We know that the purchase did not take place because the legislation should only allow purchases through Slovenian suppliers – this is how you explained at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Of course it doesn't. And the supply facility had the possibility of directly purchasing the security equipment from the verified supplier, the second half of March, when it took over the coordination of the purchases of the protective equipment. However, the business did not come to work, but you accompanied such a decision at the Ministry with an explanation which I will quote: "because the company does not have representation in Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia cannot carry out direct financial transactions in China, because it can only deal with Slovenian suppliers. And this is not a decision of the government, but a matter of law in force." Such a response was offered by the Ministry, irrespective of the fact that the guidelines for direct business with producers are also available in a Communication from the European Commission, which states that public buyers should contact potential operators both inside and outside the European Union with a view to speeding up their contracts. An additional advantage of such a procedure is also the possibility of carrying out the so-called ‘e.g. a negotiated procedure without prior publication allowing contracting authorities to negotiate directly with the tenderers for better terms and conditions of purchase and thus to the first degree, which is normally the objective, including a lower price. Nevertheless, in his statement to your ministry, the Secretary of State said the following, and I will quote that the agreement was at the level of the government, "that we should only deal with Slovenian companies. This is a rule that has not been invented by this government, but has been in place for all time for the acquisition of a supply facility” - even for this claim we all know today that it is not real, and even less that Mr State Secretary for such a declaration has at any time had any legal basis. Later, the Secretary of State described this statement at a meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission as a communication noise and acknowledged it; I quote: “There is no legal restriction on the conscience”. I cannot think of and conclude in any other way than to say that in an unknown place by unknown persons, in the midst of an epidemic and a chaotic situation on the market of protective equipment, we all know that the purchasing and selling situation has changed from day to day, from hour to hour, but in my opinion a spirit of non-economic behaviour has been formed, which also has an approach to corruption. If I initially said that the first thing that gets me wrong is to fool the public, then it's definitely the last one, it's an untransparent and unconscionable behavior, a thing that can confuse me even more. In the case of good practice, how to act in a cost-effective manner without intermediaries, the case of Croatia can be cited. Croatia obtained 60 tonnes of equipment from China with an international agreement of EUR 5.5 million. Germany did the same with a special arrangement concluded by Mrs Chancellor. The Republic of Croatia will spend about 52 million on purchases of protective equipment, of which 1.7 million via indirect purchases, all the rest are direct purchases. In the Republic of Slovenia, however, according to known information, we are expected to be on Day 5. 6. This information shall be valid for the supply already delivered or for the current supply of 108.6 million. Minister, today you have indicated two figures: that we have spent a good 60 million today and that you estimate that the final amount will be around 80 million. You probably know on the basis of the raccoon estimates you mentioned this, but I would still like to give you another information. The report, which we discussed both at the Committee on Finance and at the Commission's meeting on public finances supervision, contained these transfers within the budget for 180 million. I allow the possibility that all transfers will not be made, perhaps even doubts that have then come to 200 million out of this 180 million, or this information that we have heard several times in various statements. The fact is that it would be possible to operate directly, but they became the purchases via intermediaries part of the story of how to establish an untransparent system, and that was then the government or perhaps even you at the ministries, it seemed that this was purchased by the Department of Commerce Reserves, and in my opinion it was the MGRT that demanded that every business, which was also practice, first obtain agreement. Consent, it was also clear at the time that the Department of Commodity Reserves did not have sufficient human and other resources, sufficiently competent to do so itself, so that two working groups, one within the MGRT, the other within the MORS or the Ministry of Defence, were also set up to assist the institution in the implementation of public contracts, and you said so today. Of course, as we look back today, we have heard a lot about this, that, above all, the working group within the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, led by Mr Trce, had some other powers, and under their pretext, the actual supply of protective equipment was led and coordinated by your ministry. If I continue to do a little more professional work. In opening, I would like to explain some of the facts that we have heard from Mr Vesel, President of the Court of Auditors, but I also think it is extremely important to establish such or other responsibilities, if you want Mr Minister, also your political responsibilities. The work and business of the Department of Trade Reserves is governed by the Law on Trade Reserves. This provides that the institution must apply certain provisions, rules governing the award of public contracts when purchasing and selling goods. In the Republic of Slovenia, procurement is governed by the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Act in the field of defence and security. In the Court of Auditors, it was pointed out that both regulations explicitly prohibit local discrimination against tenderers. Since Slovenia is a member of the European Union, it is also obliged to respect the rules of the Single Market within the European Union. However, the rules on public procurement do not give grounds for restricting the award of public contracts only to Slovenian tenderers. When it comes to the availability of public money, things are very clearly set up, even in a situation where we are in the face of an epidemic and there is no doubt here. We all agree, at least I hope, and I think that this is so that public money must be spent economically, transparently and legally. In particular, in our country, despite the epidemic that has been declared, we have not suspended the basic principles that apply in procurement procedures, where we know that we have public finances, even more, on the government's website, where both suppliers and contracting authorities find all the necessary information regarding electronic procurement, we can track down the government record that simpler and less formal procedures can be used to order goods or services, but still need to be respected and adhere to legally defined rules. Legally defined rules. In my opinion, ensuring any responsibility is crucial, legality and only consistent compliance with the basic principles of public procurement, which, by the way, are part of the legal provisions and fundamental principles applicable to the availability of public money, would all of you, and in this place, Mr Minister, as the main actor, be able to "extract" your responsibilities, but not all of them show that the honourable Minister, these minimum standards have not been respected, so your political responsibility is evident today. However, I would like to say once again, these indications and the indications I have mentioned do not in any case imply your personal discretion, but only refer to the conduct of the procedures that we have witnessed in purchasing protective equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u113	Thank you very much. There's a colleague of mag's who's got the word. Dean Kaloh.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u114	President, thank you so much for your word. Now, sometimes, after so many hours here, it is already a little spiritistic to hear from the opposition always the same accusations which, in my opinion, the respected Minister of Restoration really, I say in the jargon, cut down or completely declassified, but I would like to say a few facts, because it was also mentioned several times by our UKC Maribor, an institution that I particularly care about because there are, of course, excellent doctors, excellent health personnel who also proved themselves in the Covida-19. Now, colleague Pavlšč said earlier that on day 13. 3. UKC Maribor had 49 fans. Look, of course he forgot, he conveniently forgot to say that UKC Maribor later acquired 17 new fans, because of course they thought the scale of the epidemic would be even larger. Of that, look, there were 10 of them, just from this company we're talking about here today, Geneplanet, it's called Siriusmed R30. Now that you say they weren't appropriate. Of course they were appropriate. Look, I've been talking to several doctors and doctors would use them without question if in UKC Maribor, the real extent of the epidemic was to increase, but, thank God, with timely measures, with timely government measures, in the hospital itself, they didn't need them, otherwise they would certainly use them. I have more opinions from doctors, from our UKC Maribor, so, this deception, that they were not useful, is completely over. It is not serious, it is very deliberate and let me say that if you look at where they were used, in several hospitals across Europe, in the United States, there is no way we can talk about the dispute between these fans. Now, Minister Restoration, I regard him as a real man, a real man of practice. Today, at the beginning of his response, the interpolation said something like this. It is necessary to talk about real life, where solutions take place, where human lives were saved, during the Covida-19 epidemic. Of course, there was talk mainly about the terrain itself, about the hospital itself during the epidemic and see if respected colleagues would do any analysis, I made it for UKC Maribor, of course, that we have some basis, that we are having a serious conversation at all. 13. 3. Very rigorous measures have been taken. So, since then, they've called phase 3, they've only dealt with emergencies and so-called "carcinoma" patients. The situation is then, of course, due to the empty warehouses of the previous government, up to 27. 3. exacerbated the lack of personal protective equipment by turning them into phase 4. What does that mean in practice? This meant that they dealt with only and only urgent cases. It's true, the situation has deteriorated on the very ground. And now, these quantities of personal protective equipment were so low that they were still in, at that critical moment, on Day 27. 3. For three days it was enough, it is said, with maximum restrictions, that is, daily consumption of masks, about 2,000. I speak of course FFP2, FFP3. But the threat is, of course, that neither this protective equipment will be for the E.R. And then, if you were doing some research in this interpretation of yours you saw that UKC Maribor actually came out of this problem by coming from shipments from the Department of Commerce on 30 March and 1 April. At that time, the supply reserves were filled again, thanks, of course, to the current capable operational and efficient governments. And then there were no more of these labor restrictions because they had enough protective resources then in our UKC Maribor. This action or acquisition of this protective equipment has been transparent. Today we have heard several times, it has been publicly announced that all contracts were published on the e-procurement portal within 48 hours, saying everything is black in white, all in accordance with the legislation, so that I, as a lawyer myself, agree that this is absolutely necessary, must be done in accordance with the legislation, but also when it was said why Article 46 of the Public Procurement Act was applied, including three short items which are so clear to every sane person: exceptional circumstances, extreme lack of protective equipment and the need for rapid operation. So, look, respected interpellationers, if you can't understand these brief succinct explanations, then of course you can't understand any longer report. This epic lie, which has also turned out to be that the country spent 200 million euros on purchasing protective equipment. More than once it has been explained, the country has so far paid €62 million without VAT. If all the contracts are in place, there'll be 80 million. [[Incomprehensible]] Of course, a quarter of a billion sounds more dramatic than three times less and, of course, you can still manipulate and deceive. But look, it's the LMSH MPs who can easily replace high figures. We have heard many times that it is not clear to everyone what millions are, what billions are. This is quite an operation, so look at this interpretation in terms of how you use amounts, do not hold up or actually just smile in some way. I did not intend to address the topic of the previous President of the Government, Mr Sharpe, because he said that this was not an interpretation against him. Yes, because the Slovenian prosecutors will also ask him nothing, as they or they will ask Italian Prime Minister Conte. But the Italian Prime Minister doesn't have a problem with that. He will explain whether he acted in time against the crisis or not. Now, of course, our previous Prime Minister of the Government is somehow taking any responsibility, which is already, whether he is not or is hanging in the air somehow, but the fact is that his government has declared the epidemic too late, the warehouses were empty, just like here. It's actually his responsibility. And now, look, when the exact reports of the country's response rate have been published with regard to the first case of infection, Austria's first infection on February 25, 2020, the announcement of the epidemic 19. Two, four days. In Italy, the first infection is 31. 1. 2020, state of emergency 31. 1. 2020, an immediate response is called. I think Estonia declared an epidemic two days before the first case. And our government has taken eight days since the first infection. What have you been doing for a week since all of Europe has already fallen into COVID-19? What did you do for eight days? Now, if I would like to express myself nicely, let me say that interpolation is really a pamphlet, a structure and, of course, it is in this domain of destabilisation of the government, which, of course, will only remain in this attempt of yours. [[Incomprehensible]] It is such a clavicle, a clairvoyal experiment, because this government is going successfully further and as it worked at the time of COVID-19, it is said to be a treasure and, I stress, for the health of all Slovenes and Slovenes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague named Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u116	Thank you, President, for your word. We've been here for exactly so many hours that a man almost loses his desire and will to say something clever in this room. Mainly, I think it's sad that we're even here today. It's sad, and I wonder if it's even necessary, or if it's necessary. You know, the worst thing is when a citizen finds out that at the expense of his illness or potential illness or the possibility that he might get sick that someone is being rude, dishonest, shamefully taking advantage of him or serving him. That's an ugly thing to do. And now here we have to think a little bit about what the event is after us, it's not behind us, let's hope it's slow, and why we're here today. This epidemic has really affected our lives. What happened? Our lives literally stopped. We were all at home, closed buildings, shops, businesses, businesses, the economy stopped, but some took advantage of the situation. And that's a fact. Now you know, with the taxpayer, I mean, we have to always be careful and cost-effective. Always. And here I'm going to repeat one thing, I'm not going to repeat the word of others, I'm sure here, and I'm going to repeat this thing again and again, I don't see the direct responsibility of Minister Restoration here, and it won't surprise you, my words. Because here is the responsibility of other, larger lobbies, an annual, ten-year-old lobby that exists in this country, an octopus, so to speak, which has always existed when something like this has ever happened, never to such an extent, this is the first time that has happened, and we hope that it will never happen again, let's all hope, even though we know that we can't do this any more than we want. Now, I'm gonna say something here. I never have, and I will never use the term thieves and criminals, because at least in the client of the SAB we will never allow it, and I've already repeated it with an attitude. It is true, however, that I strongly condemn any crisis under the pretext of aid to be used and misused for war profit. One wonders what this war means, so-called war profit. It's no different than taking advantage of a tragedy on the backs of taxpayers on a committee. That's it. Nothing else. Now, they were, they weren't war profiteers. As you mention war profiteers, they immediately say it wasn't true that it was an opportunity. Of course it was an opportunity. Not a good chance. We saw what was going on. You know, I think this thing, getting all this equipment, the security stuff, wouldn't happen if they bought me directly, without intermediaries. I have said this a number of times, myself, our companies are buying directly, around the world, and we know how processes are running, and the country itself could do this with such apparatus, unless certain people in certain places wanted to take advantage of the system and the situation. [[Incomprehensible]] And that's what I said before, why I don't give the Minister full responsibility here. Of course, look, the minister is collateral damage, as I say, it's the minister who's responsible for everything. It is signed, even though in these cases it has not signed a contract at all, if I have understood correctly, the contracts have been signed by others. Of course he's in control. You know, it's like the mayor that I was always responsible for everything. Always fully responsible for everyone, for all the mistakes they've made inside, employees, always the mayor is responsible. And let's go back and find out who did it, who didn't do it, why it happened, but it's too late. The first person in the paper is you, the mayor. Done. Why did I say that? To make people think that today is really an interpellation against the minister, but I think there should be an interpretation here for the whole government, not for Minister Restovalski. Where are the other ministers in this game today? The Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Health, they were all involved in this story. And they weren't direct. Because there were other people in the back again. The rest of you, where's the responsibility now, who's the responsibility now? But we're looking for the right people, but what's on it? We're not inquisitors here to look for this, we're not cops. Here we see political responsibilities as such. But in fact, here are the ones who have done a great job in the system that they've been holding for so long. I'm not gonna talk about one, the other, the whistler, no, the ones who have repented, what is it? What kind of sting? My husband said honestly what was going on. What kind of remorse? Repent of what? A man repents if he's done something wrong, and then he says how sorry I am, and then he repents. The man only reported what was actually happening there. And now these people who were there, and who are more than one who is there. I won't name them because I don't care if they don't think I'm saying it in any other way. But those who were there who were purchasing, who were responsible for these acquisitions, will be responsible for what? You know, these are civil servants, you know, the growing problem is, with all due respect for everyone, but they're untouchable. In public administration, people are untouchable in public administration. We in the private sector would have sent them in three pi*, three spaces, and we'd go to our seats right now, and it'd be a war. Let them sue if they have to. And it proves itself then. But no one here will answer, no one will answer, I guarantee they won't. Their responsibility is in the first person. That's what I think. Now, then we've been wondering and today we've heard one thing and the same thing over and over again, but I'm going to repeat that maybe people, those who can connect now to television and watch now, why did some have the advantage over others? That would interest me, too. Because that's actually what's been going on. Some bidders had priority over others. And what happened? Then the target came. And when the Target came, they all jumped into the air, and they got scared. They were scared. And the first moment, not even the minister, and I don't know who, the ministers both didn't even come to Target. Because normally, it was a shock. So someone can tell you what's going on in those rooms. And it started. Then what started? Eliminate all irregularities. At the moment, irregularities began to be resolved. Open offers, other, links [[?]] to prove, was coming to e-mails, there were reports of how many tenders were opened. After that came out. Not before. Before, the offers were there. Open, ordered and signed specifically for certain people. That's what the media says. That's the way it is, people. Why was she buying inappropriate equipment, I wonder? Because she was buying inappropriate equipment. That's what you bought. Tell me, why was it bought and repaired by contracts that had forged certificates? I'm wondering here. I'm just wondering. Goods came in, had no real certificates, goods came in completely different. You know why? Because running the whole procedure was amateur, unprofessional, unprofessional, without knowledge. Here we are talking about the country, about the State Reserves Authority, about the authority that procures certain top issues, they couldn't even control what they wrote in the offer, not to order themselves. Of course, they cannot order the goods themselves. No matter how much they order it, if they can't even find out if it's a real item or if it's not a real item. And those who were suppliers understood that they were incompetent and they fucked them domestically. That was it. And now we're looking for responsibility, and now we have Rest here, a poor guy who thinks, "What am I doing here, what am I hiding?" Of course, it's not his fault it's not just here, it's the whole chain's fault. This whole chain is to blame, not just for resting. And why do we always say that it was Sharec's fault before? Was it the scarf? I don't want to defend him because he made me worse than good in my political career. Ma, I'm not gonna defend him for this, because he's not. But if we're talking about Charz's responsibility, why don't we ever talk about John Janš's responsibility? Who's in charge of this government now? If he was previously headed by Charec, who was responsible for all the reserves that were not like, by knowing that he was in today's government, one third of the government was the same, one third of the government is the same, Janez Janša is never mentioned? Janez Janša is not, he's around the corner, he's hiding because he sends others in front so he'll never be to blame. Yeah, now let's think about it a little bit. If one of them is guilty here, he's always in charge. At this point, the Chief Executive is the Prime Minister. Today, the Prime Minister's name is Janez Janša, if he used to be Marjan Sarec. Because then you should talk differently. Was it Marjan Sarec's fault when the warehouses were empty? No, it was Restoration's fault, because he was always the same minister there. Why do you always say, especially you from SDS, that it was Marjan Sarec's fault? And I'm gonna say it again, I'm not defending him, I'm just saying the facts. Now he should be guilty — who? Janez Janša, ma, it's perfectly normal. No, he's not. Not on the wallpaper, him. He wasn't there. He laughed before when he was here when we read it. He went away when we read and we read the customer's views. None of them were ministers. They all went. But that's right, I wonder. What, is that right? We have an interpellation for the largest theft of the century, which was made in Slovenia, and now they have all gone away when we had positions here, the party positions of our Parliament - the parliaments which he has elected, because they have been elected for Parliament, because of us here, no matter who voted for or against. they must do what Parliament dictates here. And that's what I'm saying. He was sitting there for 20 minutes, laughing, I don't know what statements, and then he went away. All right, all right. If it's a system, let's call it a system. It's not right for me, I'll tell you honestly, it's not right for me personally. I would like him to be here to listen to the views of other parties, which were not all negative 100%, were also real, in fact forged. They didn't think you'd understand a little bit about what it was. The government then set up, you know how the war went on, then set up an inter-resort working group, then set up a project group, and then finally put everything into hands to sign the contracts with the department of supply reserves. Then who is really responsible here? Let's ask ourselves, who? You know, it was perfectly done because that's the way it's distributed, so you don't know who's responsible for what anymore. How many times have we said how many times have we said we want one single account? Just for financial control, and that wouldn't be a problem. I heard one earlier who said that there were now 160 million redistributed, then he says 180 million, then the other one tells you that it was purchased for 200 million, then it comes to us that it's 62 million. Well, when are we gonna know what really happened? Let me tell you, who in here from among us Members who accept certain things knows how much money today was involved in the purchase of protective equipment? No, it didn't go 20 million because there are contracts that are still in the Act that have not yet been delivered. The last contract, signed yesterday for 20 million masks, also has this to be realised. So it's not all realized yet, we don't know exactly what the amount will be. We don't know. I hope we know tomorrow. Tomorrow, I'm talking another day. I hope so, but I'm not sure because on the 15 accounts where everything goes out, you'll never know exactly what the real amount was. We'll never know, but they say we're going to be pumped for 5 billion, right? That's, that's kind of true, isn't it? Now, responsibility, if I repeat here, I think there is complete inorganicity here and that is why this matter has also occurred. And that's why these problems came. And once again, I think the culprits here are full, not just one. Of course, one of us has to come to the chair to answer for it. Now I asked another question, and I asked a lot of questions on the boards, and they told me, I think my colleague mentioned something earlier about these glasses, but I didn't understand very well whether they were ordered, talking about these 400 thousand glasses. People are looking at us, look, people are looking at us, and people are wondering, are we idiots, no matter what we are? 20, 25 thousand people are the maximum number that they should be able to use these glasses, the entire personal health care, firefighters, rescuers, those who help, I don't know who else, the whole apparatus of people 20 to 25 thousand. Four hundred thousand of them got glasses, watch out, that's not the mask you throw in the trash, you just disinfect it and use it back, 90 of us here could have 20 glasses at home. Do we have them? I don't even know if they're really there, we don't even know, we don't know. There are those problems when one wonders where this money goes, how easy it is. A man pays the kind of espouse he pays those 50 euros a month, who has to pay a fee to market his blood. But we're talking billions here, millions that we don't even know where they're going. Ma, we are normal, no matter what our people, our citizens, should think of politics, because it is normal that we always, let us stop now. Without a connection, I mean, something really happened. I mean, protective equipment and then how many of them, you tell me how many of them were really in the hospital with these respirators. How many were there? The maximum number that was inside. I don't know if Mr. Kreka was or I don't know who else, he said there once in March of the month that if this infection went so exponentially that there would be 90,000 dead or not, somewhere there was one information. I said, you, percentage of the population. Thank God it didn't happen that the measures were right, I'll always say this, I'll say again, the government's intervention regarding the infestation was right and everything was right. We don't have this thing in the debate. We're talking about purchases, uncontrolled purchases, unregulated purchases, amateur purchases, if that's what I'm saying. And then they died. And then you hear people, personally, one of them told me that they called, I mean, look, it's real, a man dies, we'll write that it's COVID, because that's how you get a paid funeral, everything. I mean, what we're normal about. Reported, I have two witnesses, two, called, wrote. Look, because people write, you know, when a thing like this comes, they don't shut up. Let's write that he died of COVID, so you'll get paid for the whole funeral. What are we, normal? I mean, where do we live? In Slovenia, yes. I'm interested in responsibility for one product. You know, when I made a few noises with that fabulous mask, that mask, that protective. I've achieved a lot with this mass. Now I'm going to tell you what I've accomplished with this mask. I'm curious about something, the Minister is here now, or Secretary Cantarutti is more involved in this matter. Do you want to tell me where those masks went? I'm really interested. I think he's interested in my colleagues here, too. Tell me where they went, because me, I tell you, I can answer if I can, but I can tell you where they went. So many have come back, and I won't talk so much anymore because I've said enough. And look, it was a product that was paid 80 cents. And now I'd like to see you so much as Secretary of State of Cantarutti at the time to dress up when you were here with masks that were mandatory and that you'd only be 20 minutes with that mask up there, right? And what did we accomplish after we reported it? We've achieved a really great result, and now I'm going to tell you. The owner of the material, not the one who made the masks, because the owner of the material came to me because the lie was what others were saying here, that they were suing us or that I didn't know they were suing her, nothing was true. He came to me, personally, and he reported this product himself, so you'll know. And what did the man do? He remodeled the production. He rearranged his production and started to make excellent - and I will just commend him – excellent masks, two-layers, because four layers couldn't because it choked you, only CO2 came in, his product and he started making these masks. [[Incomprehensible]] Why am I saying this now? Because, now I'd like to know who, right, Tommy who I am, I don't know who he is, but I know that, now, from the Department of Trade Reserves, it's for a firm that I won't mention, it's barely ordered 20 million masks that have been on customs for so long, it's said, because they weren't appropriate. They weren't appropriate. We know that. And because they weren't appropriate, the only smart thing the Government did, and I think that's good, she said, look, my company, if you want us to get these masks out of the customs that we already had, you're going to lower the price, you're going to lower the price because the masks were without a certificate, they weren't useful for what they were bought, and then, finally, I read, and I see that they agreed, for 52 cents, I mean, I don't know where I read, something, but mostly 52 cents per piece, and then these 56 cent masks are even down to 56 cents. Look, Minister, I'll give you one suggestion for tomorrow. This gentleman who makes these masks sells them for 40 cents. Slovenian product and makes it work on dozens, hundreds of people. Okay? And he's been doing it for about a month and a half. Okay? So let me understand why I wanted to come to this debate. This mask is great. We don't need them yet, but if you've ordered another 20 million and there's another 50 million in stock, because it's probably enough for all of Europe, right, so I think if you need another 20 million, I don't know why, but if you need any more, let's go to the Slovenian manufacturer who I think it is, too, is the need for this crisis phase, with all our industry to help the domestic manufacturer, with excellent material. [[…]] So, I think here, to conclude this, I'm going to say again -- here, on this bench, I shouldn't be Minister Restoration, but I think the whole government here could be responsible for what we read here today. For irresponsible purchases, for amateur purchases, for uncontrolled. And she didn't apologize for saying that there was no other way at the time, because it wasn't true, it wasn't true. And I'm not going to go into the details, but I'm telling you that we were getting them without any problem, and it was possible to get such and different resources. And if the state were to supply itself, we would now have a strong, strong lower price. Because even if it is 62 million, you know, and if Croatia has really given 50 million, we are talking about 100% of the population more, we still bought 100% more and it's not over because it's going to be 200% more and let's imagine it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs. Servant, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u118	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now, as much as my colleague Bandell's very nice discussions are, there are still two things to say that it won't be because now, Comrade Marko, you said that it's not really something I said, but I was talking about the mail I got. [[…]] This is the mail, so don't say it's not true. [[advertising from the hall]] I didn't say. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I said, call for an immediate public apology. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u119	Mr. Bandelli, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u120	The call for an immediate public apology and it says here, their actions, no doubt meet all the signs of the crime Bla, blah, blah, I won't deal with you then, I don't really care, but the fact is that we got it, here are all the certificates, here you are in one picture even you and there's this mask. [[…]] [[…]] [[…]] We got it all so we don't have to argue about what's really wrong right now. But it's not that important. More importantly, now it has been said that Minister Restoration was also Minister in the previous Government, which, of course, did not get enough equipment, and you said that if anyone was responsible then, of course it was Minister Restoration, because the minister was already in the previous Government. But in that government, you were also the minister, and I believe you know that in that government, one of the other resources was responsible for the acquisition of protective equipment and not the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Dusan Shisko, procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u122	Yes, thank you, Chairman. I'd, uh, I'd love to hear my friend Markot show me those masks, but I don't know if you've all seen anything up there, and I'd ask him to show me again on both sides what was on those masks. And how did they get this mask? If this manufacturer says he's a good producer, what he did to them. I'd ask if he could show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u123	Mr Šiško, I must warn you, this is not a procedural proposal, and I suggest we move on. [[advertising from the hall]] The word has magic. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Please. Mrs. Ushieva, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Very nice greetings, Minister, everyone else, colleagues and colleagues. In the beginning, I'm going to tell you the testimony of an employee in a nursing home. All of us who work in our homes are saddened by the media events of the last few days. As a domestic worker, I can say that we did our best, we worked when most of the others were at home on hold. We worked without protective equipment and in fear of bringing the virus into our home. The only desire we had in addition to fear was to have enough protective equipment to protect the inhabitants, ourselves, and our loved ones. But unfortunately, at this time, we've already had Metlik, Schmarje near Jelshah, Ljutomer. Homes asked for other homes if they had any protective equipment to send them. If we had it, of course, we'd be happy to give it to them, but we were all on the same page. We didn't have anything. At that time, none of us wondered where the masks would come from and what their price would be. All that mattered was getting them. I am proud of my fellow workers who, despite lack of protective equipment, faithfully went to work and cared for our elderly. Now the media are mutilating us, and members of the opposition want to take responsibility in the absence of protective equipment on us, seducing us to face [[?]] The epidemic itself had to take care of adequate and sufficient quantities of protective equipment. I wonder where the ethics are, where is the empathy for a fellow man who's been suffering from contraptures who hasn't eaten food through his mouth in years because his only way of eating a tube is into his stomach. Not to mention the presence of pain accompanied by contraceptions and misalignments. Most of the caregivers are in their homes, and I don't know if you realize that we couldn't plan something that we didn't even know was going to catch up with us, and unfortunately Slovenia has reached Covid-19's infectious disease, so we were expecting the country to come to our aid. And what did we get? This was testimony from one of the employees. We listened to the same story on the committee of the pension director Šmarje pri Jelšah, when the protective equipment was collected from day to day throughout Slovenia. Here, in this place, I'll tell you what they got. Instead of the aid deadline, they monitored information on the resignation of the then Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Marjan Sarc. It is very sad to be left alone by someone who should have been the first to take the reins and guide us in difficult times, as they were then. But no, he squeezed his tail between his legs and left. He left us, left Slovenia and our country Slovenia at the most difficult times. He knew what was coming and what was waiting for him, so we were still glad that the steering wheel had been taken over by the current government under the leadership of Janez Janša, and Minister Restoršek acted responsibly, joined the new government and did not, as a coward in the crisis, sink into a hole and, together with the Prime Minister and other ministers, listened to all those who then asked for help. We were led together in this epidemic. Citizens and citizens have followed established plans and together we have successfully passed the first wave of SARS-COVID infection, and now after the battle we hear reports of inadequate certificates, non-economic purchases, inadequate and excessive purchases of fans, purchase of some sort of equipment, misperforming procurement of protective equipment, and so on. But the worst part about this is that they're reading the interpellations' proponents, that they're trying to hide everything under the cover of life-saving. Now, at this point, I ask you, have you not seen the reports from neighbouring countries? I guess not. It's me because I live just outside the border with Italy and I was still kind of worried when I saw the baptisms in Bergamo. But it doesn't matter to you because you were safe at home, far from what was happening. At the time, I was in the role of a parish in the municipality of Nova Gorica, and I tell you, in the ether of events on the ground, the desire was at home for older citizens, hospitals, health homes, schools and other public institutions only this: help us, we do not have equipment, delivery hands are impossible, no one can provide us supplies within a month, and the prices are dizzy. And these were calls every day over and over again, in addition to the other problems and fears they faced, which are not the subject of debate today. And you, dear proponents, where were you then? You were gone, but now you're full of accusations. We are listening to how we should obtain protective equipment directly, without intermediaries, even though we have seen how equipment in other countries was thus unsuppliable and up-to-date collected. And we've been hearing these and other accusations since the very beginning of this government, or even before, there have been protests that we know who's standing for, right? And your lies are full of lies that deceive the citizens and citizens of this precious country. But the worst thing about this temple of democracy is to listen to accusations against criminals. The one who makes this statement obviously does not know the penal code and neither does the one responsible for making such accusations. And I'm going to read Article 162 of the Penal Code: a criminal record for the purpose of defamation. Anyone who, for the purpose of defiance of a person, manifests that he has committed a crime shall be punished with a financial penalty or imprisonment of up to three months. Well, let the one who says that think about it. It is not surprising, however, that interpellation is the first one planned by the opposition, since at the table we have the following interpretation against the Minister of the Interior, Mr Aleš Hojs, directly against Minister Počvalšek, who is a working man and an economist and knows what it means to do and not only to speak, as some of the Members have signed under the interpretation that came directly from the student benches from Parliament. And also – because it is easier to participate in protests than to make decisions at the time of the COVID-19 epidemic, as was done by the government under the leadership of Janez Janša. Finally, I would like to ask you if in the opposition you are aware of the damage you have done to the company and everyone you have brought into this story. I don't mean politics here. How do you intend to repay this damage and reputation? Of course, this is not of interest to you and also to Mr. Whistle, Whistle, Whistleman Ivan Gallet. However, I am convinced that citizens and citizens see how your actions have been turned around. In the fight for power and for the takeover of this power, you are prepared to do everything – to blacken the work of the government, the good name of the company, to ignore warnings and messages from the profession, to mark members of the coalition and the government with criminals and also the reputation of the state of Slovenia in Europe and the world. Interpellation and all the words spoken against the Minister of Economy, Mr Počvalska, is just one of the unethical acts that will take place from day to day in this National Assembly. We are proud of the work of the entire government in the Slovenian Democratic Party. So, well done work by both the President of the Government and all ministers. Citizens and citizens are grateful for helping to combat SARS COVID and for measures from all three anti-Korona packages.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič has the word to prepare Soniboj the Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will talk about the facts myself, although some coalition Members have said that we are not talking about it. So if I say anything that isn't real, please warn me, Mr. Secretary. The fact is, if Slovenia had high democratic standards, there would be no interpretation. I agree with this, because in some democratic countries with a high standard, ministers resign after such an affair. You've made a different decision, and that's why in the opposition we decided to file an interpellation. The coalition and you are talking about completely different things today than we are telling you in the text itself. That Slovenia is one of the most successful in fighting the epidemic is a fact. But that's not today's theme. Just as it's not a topic to thank all the professionals who do, of course, all the credit for being so successful. However, it is interesting to thank health professionals, who are also disqualified on other occasions. Dr. Knafel is one of the greatest experts in his field. If I speak your way, Ferrari is in his field, but the media is the biggest opposition party on which you, too, have recently enjoyed performing, in a very personal way, very badly discredited. In your defense, you also thanked a good public service, which I fully agree with. At the same time, you thanked the NGOs and the media. On this occasion, I ask you to thank the media and NGOs, and on the other hand, you are sitting in a government that destroys non-governmental people and gets personally involved in the media and wants to discredit them. So it's kind of not working out. You were also talking about whistleblowers. It doesn't matter to me what Gale's name is. The fact is, he put some information out there that was hidden. There is also talk of Snowden, Assange, neither are these matters nor are they similar. And by comparison, when my colleague Rajić said that whistleblowers would come forward immediately, Snowden worked in secret for over eight years and collected data before he got out. So talking on some occasions and how everyone's talking right now, they're saying they're not holding up. So today is not the topic of what everyone else is saying, but the topic of ignoring some basic principles of transparent public procurement. We do not say how much or what you purchased, but how you procured it. And given that we are in the biggest crisis in the history of Slovenia, this transparency should be even greater. The fact is, Erar didn't work for a while. It's just a fact. You didn't put the contract on the plan from the start, either, but you didn't put it on until later. Some of us claim that under pressure from the public, you're just saying that you gave it to yourself because you wanted to show somehow the transparent functioning of this government. It is also true that 70% of the orders, about 130 million euros, have been received by few businesses. But it's nothing wrong. And it wouldn't be wrong if you only got one company. It is, however, a question which companies have received it and in what way. Many wonder why you've included intermediaries. Many do not agree. You've made up your mind today or you've been talking about your argument all along, but if you've made up your mind about it, I'm asking you why 40% of the bids remain unattended. How do we know that there were no better offers between these offers? Then there's another question. If you've made up your mind with intermediaries, why haven't you decided to go public? Why have you given this to companies that have never had any experience in obtaining any medical and protective equipment? So, everything I've just said, I think it's true if you don't please fix me. These are kind of your scams and mistakes, and I'll try to describe to you one case of one company. I don't know if you mean basketball or handball, that you were playing quarterback left wing and also playing makeup if I'm not wrong. Why am I saying this? Since you may not have expressed yourself very well on the basis of this case, which I am speaking, it is said, to the companies of Acrona, because here politics has been very involved in some sporting activity, we know what the media have been writing, what has happened at the first-class association, which clubs should be out of the first league and which persons are connected in various companies and what has happened at the same assembly itself, if I may say so. Now, colleagues are also talking about how much damage has been done to some of the companies we are exposing. Acron had some over 21 million traffic in 2018. It has only 30 million Euros of transport with masks. So, here I don't know who can talk about some damage if a company that doesn't deal with masks actually has done more business with three contracts than it has actually done in the past year. In this company, we are talking about FF5 2 masks where the first contract was signed 27. 3, the value of the 3.20 euro mask, the value of 640 000 euros. I think that's true. The second was signed 29. 3, amounting to 9 million 600 000, also for 3.20 euros. And the third contract, please be careful here on the date, was signed 31. 3. 2020, they have a small amount of 20 million. Under this contract, the annex increased to 3.90 euros per mask. Now it's the same time, 31. 3. 2020, an army with Ledix signed a $1.97 contract. So if I take the lower, it says, 3.20, 1.97 euros, and then it was even increased to 30.90. In this Government, Mr Matthew Tonin, who speaks, high margins are unacceptable. Now, what's the difference between these companies? So, the company, in my opinion, can give any price, but it was up to you, as in the buyer, to choose which one you buy, is either cheaper or more expensive. This is where you decided to make a margin that was more than 100 percent. Now, one of the owners of Ledix even said, I didn't take advantage of the state's account in the crisis, I took 18% of the margin, because the work was huge and we offered a fair price. Another owner decided to have a 100 % margin. And if the military bought this for one whole seven euros, the same day that you made a deal with another company, I'm wondering why you didn't, because only if we didn't have intermediaries for example would we save more than 16 million euros, but we know how many houses we could actually build with this. [[…]] We have also heard today that there was some agreement to conclude with Ledix, but, to quote, the MGRT treaties never agreed. Now I wonder why your ministry didn't give consent to these contracts. You also said you had to look at the delivery deadline. At Acron, in my opinion, you did not look at the delivery deadline if we know that in the original contracts there was a delivery period of October, and then you concluded with an annex for the month of July, which is that we are not yet in July, but we are still waiting for these masks, and you are saying that you signed contracts because these masks were so hasty. You also stated earlier that you were paying for delivery to Slovenia, paid for in Slovenia. You have also done this slightly differently in this company, since you agreed to deliver masks only to a warehouse in a Chinese town owned by a multinational owner of Gorenje, and from there Slovenia covers the costs of masks. So in this company you again made an exception, even though you said earlier, delivered to Slovenia, paid for in Slovenia. Now, colleague Bandelli has also talked about the domestic production of masks. On 24 March, Mr. Minister, you said: "This way we will deliver an ever-increasing amount of protective equipment and masks from our domestic producers." It is said on 24 March, also colleague Bandelli said that domestic production can provide masks, and I wonder why you signed a contract 14 days ago for 20 million masks that cannot be used by healthcare professionals for a few more than 11 million. So also here the story is not going together if you said on March 24th that domestic production would be, also colleague Bandelli says that we can make masks and you buy for, I think, 20 million masks for 11 million euros. And if I finish. We're not judging you today, which is why the courts are, because you're a minister, we're talking about your political responsibility. It's something completely different. And if you are at the top of a pyramid, you must also accept this responsibility, as will all members of the coalition, who often hide behind their customers, to accept their political responsibility to vote for Janez Janša, to be President of the Government, as well as to vote against interpretation today, and this will always be their political responsibility, as it will always be in their CV. But I'm not talking about criminal liability, so I'm asking you not to mix it up and even more so that you don't read it to us, a coalition to tell me about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word. Get Mojca Znidaric ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u128	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister. Today, I will not, in fact, condemn or condemn, not label anyone with such or different labels, but try to be in my own debate, touch those facts that I am like, but I think that most of us know about the stories about the purchase of protective equipment. Now, most of the information that we Members received was from the media. From the media. The first official report that came from the government, I think we got somehow in May, now, if I somehow get back this source of information from the government, the first one that was. Great report, if you read it, you could say that some kind of manual is also some project management, some projects, known structures, known as responsible, authorized, great. But what we followed through the media doesn't give the impression that everything was so organized that everything was so clearly defined, and I'm not going to judge. I am very aware of the situation, because today, as explained in the introduction by Minister Restoration, today we can be smart after a few months of time, but in March, that there were other times, and I also think that a large majority of us know that it was not easy, at least as far as the acquisition of equipment is concerned, because it was not only Slovenia that the coronavirus was waiting, that not only Slovenia was waiting for this coronavirus, I think, the only thing that worked from the previous structures, I think that civil protection worked well in this crisis with its exposures to the municipalities, that all the rest of us had major problems and that one large set of improvisations was also. I remember the statements, I speak again from the media, when we were listening, but everyone was having a hard time expecting some masked trucks that came in, that came in, that were on the road that wasn't later, that many of them were actually kind of enjoying themselves, and I have to say that I didn't want to laugh, because it showed me some situation that we found that the problem, that the matter would not be easy in the coming months, and that I also understand one honest statement, but I don't know if I'm going to quote Minister Restoration from March, that we're actually buying everything we get, and also at the price we get. We are also a purely realistic and fair picture of that period, because it was a single goal, to provide the appropriate means. A little less, but I don't understand some of the following ways, I've discussed this a little bit on the committee itself, and the fact that the government concluded at that time in March that you were essentially all those purchasing services through which the purchases of these masks took place in the clinical centre, in health homes, essentially centralised all purchases in one place without what is most important to me, that it appears and also later stories that you didn't have the appropriate resources of the staff. [[Incomprehensible]] And so probably the outside co-workers, you wanted to speed this up, I'm not going to go into the status of these outside co-workers, who, as I said on the committee, communicated through government e-mails or government e-mails, are today one or the other. In short, you're shutting down one and the system that worked, and you're setting up a new system, but you don't have the resources, and I'm not clear, especially because I don't believe that there aren't many specialists who are qualified to get this specific equipment, and I don't know why you didn't activate those services that are capable of these orders in this country, I don't know, it was a public procurement department, the procurement services of these larger ones, I don't know why the UKC probably have experts. Now that it was not entirely impossible to obtain equipment at least to me it also indicates the huge number of applications that came to the Ministry itself or to the address that was identified for it. You yourself say that much of these contracts have not been able to be reviewed, but even if I understand that you are essentially those who have met the tender conditions that have provided you with, in view of the fact that the warehouses you say were empty, I think today my colleague Trček also obtained data for years ago that these warehouses of civil protection also in the past due to the system that he was introduced were never, ever, I don't know how full, because the purchase took place, as we said, through hospitals, through health homes. So I believe that after a week, 14 days, or I think that you had a meeting at Cankar's home somewhere at the end of March where the institutions, doctors, all with one need, "we don't have to protect" and I believe you've had a hard time, I believe you haven't slept or a team, and these are the facts. Now, the second is the story around the process of this acquisition, I will not, I have not even deepened in these months, but I have been trying to research the data around the number of fans, and the mask and the glasses, and all because it seems to me that this is not even my job, what I wanted to warn you today, Minister Restoration, you mentioned in the introduction today, I think I even wrote down that there was no other interest in any contract concluded than the interest of the public, and I believe you, I believe that it is. But you know from what we've been able to track back from the media, one bunch of botts like this or other, I believe that a large majority of those who were willing to help the country offered help that was well-intentioned. However, they were also such, I don't know, but many times already mentioned, this is the supplier of SDS and such stories, and you will probably also consider yourself, because today after nine and a half hours you are alone here, there are no coalition partners, not the President of the Government, but in fact you are on the ground, and I don't think I know if you are the right person to talk to you today about interpretation, because at the end of those two years that I know you from work in the National Assembly, but also from the fact that I am a member of the Committee on Economics, I have to say that at least I have found a common language with you very quickly, because I am also coming out of the economy and I like the first that we haven't had no idea of how many meetings on the Committee for the Economy, because we both agree that we do not change conditions with the economy. A stable business environment is essential to what our entrepreneurs want, so there have also been no major legal changes, which I consider to be good for you. At the same time, of course, I understand you from your past entrepreneurship, as a manager, that in your decisions you have also walked on the border many times on your business path, along the border, at least legal, at risk, concluding business that I am afraid, given that all of these events that we have witnessed will probably hold some of them, right, I hope, or I hope that you have overstepped a bit of this time, too. [[…]] Well, like I said in the introductions, I'm not gonna judge, I'm not right. We have institutions, if anything was wrong, I hope they will react properly, so that the time before us will show what really happened. So, it was actually hard, I'm also, I have, both children, including their partners, who work all in health. I also mentioned this on the board, who sent me pictures in March, because they were on duty, three of them, on duty in the teams, in the Trbwell hospital, when they sent me pictures with, when they were with the doctor, when they were receiving the first suspects with the crown virus, plastic bags, transparent, because there was no means, so, I know it was hard, but we, like the rest of our debaters, are not clear today, and I also don't think I got the answer or somehow you mentioned that, why not buy through, without intermediaries, right? This one was, Minister Restoration, for me here today, a little bit, on your part, a little bit too bad, that in fact you intended to be, in fact, a country will not take risks, but will be entrepreneurs and this will be Slovenia. This cannot be a statement by the Minister for Economy, taking care of the economy. [[Incomprehensible]] We're not going to be a country for entrepreneurs to take risks. The role of the other, which could be included, in particular in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is a period that Mr Logar has written a letter to European countries that we have problems with the communist media, but I don't know what kind of fun it has been from communism, which he has been chasing for 30 years. In his letter, he himself forgot that he was the only leader who was still former communists in the government, that he was their president, or that he was the Prime Minister, Janez Janša. [[…]] It's not a role, but I wanted to say it. If the Croats were able to procure directly, directly in Germany, but we had a thousand reasons to do so, however, some, at least I was offering SAZU, and some, which I have read, have already mentioned today, I still do not understand that we did not go into the conclusion of these transactions, through, through these channels. But, well, now, after three months, it may be smart, I know that the coalition will cover you today, although they are somehow not in the hall today, that when they vote, they will come, but whatever they involve, various policies and various of their fellows, and companies that have a couple thousand Euros of traffic, they will get jobs, but I hope you are aware, Minister Restoring, that this responsibility is taken over by you, isn't it? So, so far, on my side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič, prepare Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone. The acquisition of protective equipment in Slovenia, until the outbreak was declared, was under the responsibility of individual institutions – from hospitals to other health institutions. So, she was not under the authority of Minister Restoration, in the previous government. The central acquisition of protective equipment, through the Department of Freight Reserves, was introduced by a decision of the current Government on 14 March 2020. It was Saturday. The next day after this government's performance. Whether the first working day, when an emergency has already taken place, has chosen the most appropriate institutions for central procurement, I cannot say, but I know that our extremely working minister for the economy will never say what he will not do. Is the first working day in the new government supposed to reject this task so that the institution under its auspices will not do so? No, he would never do that because man is action and action and a little less man of words. Would these procurements have been procured to the Ministry of Health, as the previous government had ordered three days earlier? I think the Ministry of Health has had enough other tasks and concerns about the treatment of the sick. The ordering of protective equipment was then carried out in emergency situations at home and around the world. All logistic connections were unpredictable, and it was a complete breakdown of the security equipment market. Has anyone from the opposition heard or checked with these equipment suppliers? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u131	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u132	How much money have they spent solely on security, on security guards, on sending this protective equipment from factories in China to Slovenia, and on reaching us. [[…]] The main objective of our minister and this government was only one: to provide equipment for those who urgently need it as soon as possible. First of all, medical personnel who were in tears immediately that weekend asked for equipment that Sunday to be able to cure people at all, as well as other employees. They haven't had protective equipment in stores in a long time. And all this has worked for the government and our minister with the sacrificing work, including donations and the rapid response of domestic producers. And the opposition convened a meeting a few days ago on the subject of unnecessary deaths in nursing homes - in homes where the government has provided maximum protection to the elderly. Today, do you wonder how unnecessary it would be if we did not obtain sufficient protective equipment? That's not the question today. With regard to equipment suppliers, I must warn you that there is no way we can talk about privileged suppliers, because all those who could have delivered the equipment to Slovenia have been selected. The delivery deadline and the ability to deliver were first, and it is clear here that they had the advantage of a company that already had good business connections in China, even if they had not imported health equipment before. At that time, everything that could be obtained was purchased as soon as possible and at least in line with the basic standards. That was said several times. And in my opinion, when it comes to life, time is more important than money. But today it's not about masks, it's not about fans, it's not about health, it's about one political option that's not in power, it's about destroying another political option. It's a prestigious political struggle. These are the words of a very well-known doctor that I can fully agree with. Let me add something else about fans. Experts have examined over 90 different fans. Thirteen of these were considered appropriate. And Siriusmed Air 30, around which were the most controversial and untruthful, they were in the thirteenth place — in the thirteenth of the nineties, but the only ones who were available at that time. The only one. And if ye will, the worst of the best, that is, the thirties of the nineties, and not the nineties, as was said before. All other fans had a longer or uncertain delivery deadline. Isn't it better that we get solid fans than none? Did anyone at that time know how quickly and in what dimensions the epidemic will spread to us? LMŠ talks today about the high number of fans in Slovenia on Day 13. Three o'clock in the morning, they've been talking since 404, and this afternoon they've already arrived at 450. Why didn't you tell me that at the time of the surrender of the government? You've been in charge of the Ministry of Health for the past two years. Should the new government make lists of all fans in all health institutions in Slovenia on the first day? If we were really working for the public good, we'd say, because you're only working to the detriment of the new government, you're not. Or you didn't have the data at the time the new government didn't have it, and you only got it now. Fortunately, many, or almost all, were wrong about the black predictions of Slovenia. The announcement was that in mid-April we would reach the critical limit of the infected and need up to 400 fans there. 168 would be most appropriate, we've heard from the minister today, but he didn't count it, he got it. And you're arguing to the minister today that they didn't get the best fans and that they got them even too much. You're amazing I'm not saying anything else. Despite exceptional circumstances, this Government and Minister Restoration have provided protective equipment in a timely manner, at a shorter time than many other European countries. And the consumption to date was 62 million. We've heard it multiple times today, but I don't know if anyone's remembered it. And not 180 and not 262 million so. Because after the battle everyone can be a general, and then in this COVID battle was the right and excellent Minister Zdravko Restoršek, so of course I will not support these interpretations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Reploco's got dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. The word that I can no longer hear in Slovenian is a fan, but I will say, well, dear God, the caregiver is not a tweezer, the caregiver is not a scalpel, in Slovenia we do not have 527 hospitals, we have a little over 20, christus god. You sit on the phone, you call in two hours, you make it from eight to ten in the morning, you have to know how many of these fans there are, and you have to stop acting like a fool. I'll say it again next time, because we're obviously in the mill. All the countries in Europe, except Bosnia, which bought these things by someone who already imported berries and Slovenia, bought them through some institutions that have health in them and not in the way we do, and let's stop being a fool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u135	Mr. Duck, what was your replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u136	Mr President, if you're listening, she talked about the opposition, I'm the opposition, she misunderstood what the opposition was saying, and I explained to her, a replica, a school example of a replica, you can put it in the textbook. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Let's move on. The word is Tina Hefferle, prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u138	Thank you, Chairman. Mr Minister, all the officials, including you, should know what everything is and what political responsibility we are talking about today, and if I touch it only briefly, political responsibility does not have any formal definition in any legal act, such as law or elsewhere, but it is political responsibility for the content that has developed over time, through practice and is, as such, even more important in society, because it has to be respected on the basis of some gentlemen's rules of the game, which only goes through a rare policy. Mr Minister, I am sorry that he is not with us right now, but we have heard a lot of strong evidence-based readings today, and in my opinion your political responsibility is undisputedly established today. It would be responsible for you to resign from the ministerial function alone, as your ministerial colleague, Mr Max Tynikar, did a long time ago. You may even find that wisdom and courage to do so by the end of this day. But if I go back to the beginning, it all started when you centralized the acquisition of protective equipment and the power to carry out all such public procurements to the Department of Freight Reserves. Now, first of all, because this institution belongs to your ministry, Mr. Restorationšek, you had to and you could know that in fact the department of supply reserves is human and professionally overfed so that it could successfully and qualitatively carry out such large public orders as a few million acquisitions of protective equipment and fans. Therefore, despite this behavior, why have you decided to impose so much burden and responsibility on the Department of Commerce? This is probably another rhetorical issue today. And here I must point out that the decision itself has been irresponsible and irresponsible, Mr Minister, and if ever, I believe today and I am convinced that you have made such a decision only to avoid any responsibility in the first place, so that you have avoided any signing of contracts with suppliers. Of course, we must not forget your clever manner of retaining the key competence of the Ministry, that is, that no contract for the supply of protective equipment or the purchase of fans could be concluded without your express consent. You said today that this is a normal procedure for concluding any contracts that are in the MGRT domain. Mr. Minister, your call for a direct request for a deal with a specified tenderer, a request for payment of a hundred percent advance without a bank guarantee, is certainly not a normal procedure for concluding contracts. It's illegal before. And because you have violated at least one of the fundamental principles required by the Public Procurement Act, this is the principle of equal treatment of tenderers, your conduct is very controversial. And Mr Minister, we both probably know that the second fundamental and fundamental principle in the implementation of public procurement is the principle of economy. And we both know that, despite the centralisation of public procurement and despite some different situations that were still in force on the market at the time of the epidemic, these basic principles of public procurement were still in force and had to be respected. What were you doing? You were getting more expensive through intermediaries, which you based on your unfortunate excuse that our legislation did not allow the state to purchase directly. We have heard more than once today, even the European Commission's recommendation was that countries procure protective equipment directly, i.e. without intermediaries. And once again, what did you do? As I have already said, you have fully transferred the procurement authority to, hand to heart, the incompetent Department of Trade Reserves. And that's just so that later you skillfully used this fact to get protective equipment and fans through intermediaries. Why or how he explained in one of his statements what your Secretary of State, Mr Cantharutti, said when he said, quote: "We have consciously decided to obtain through intermediaries, because the Department of Trade Reserves with a few employees was unable to do so." End of story. And today you have been deceiving again, Mr Minister, when in your additional explanation this morning you said that these guidelines of the European Commission came too late, only at the end of April. That's not true. That's not true. The guidelines were officially published on 1 April, but of course they were known for some time before. Well, I don't understand why such misdirection and manipulation of facts, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, all of this is almost a school case of uneconomic conduct that you as a minister should not afford. Even if we leave all these suspicions about who and how much more expensive auctions he has personally received, this is what we all know, the topic for the investigative authorities, to exercise political responsibility is enough that with public money you have overpaid the goods of intermediaries for as many times as possible. And today, in response to these insights about acquisitions through intermediaries, you said, Mr. Minister: The way we chose it was legal. And here you are when you cited the legal basis of Section 46 of the Public Procurement Act. Of course, it sounds much more credible if a person substantiates his statement by quoting an article, but, Mr Minister, you have also been deceiving it because the law in this article does not refer to direct or indirect purchases and the text of the article can be read by everyone. This article discusses the procedure of procurement by negotiation without prior publication, so that even where you try to contradict the obvious with some content, you will not be able to do so today. We all know that today we all know that our legislation allows our country to purchase even without intermediaries. And Mr. Minister, as a representative of MGRT and an officer, you have an objective responsibility for the work of all your subordinates, in today's case also for you directly subordinated to the Department of Trade Reserves. And when you say that the so-called whistler was the only one responsible for concluding all business, you must not forget that it was exactly your ministry that had to give consent for every conclusion of the business. And Mr Minister, as soon as you have received any agreement from the Ministry of the Department of Commerce on any contract that would only indicate any non-economic conduct, you, as Minister, and as the only one responsible, should reject it. And you, on the contrary, have afforded yourself a well-known ministerial call. And that is precisely the objective responsibility, the objective political responsibility that we are proving today, Mr Minister. Moreover, in all of today's debate, even your subjective political responsibility may be discussed, Mr Minister, because, at least in the case of this well-known minister's call, we have a direct causal link between your conduct and the consequences, and the consequence in this case is the non-economic treatment of public money. However, given the directness of the phone call, it is obvious that your fault is also clear, and as I have already said, your subjective political responsibility is, at least for me, clear as well. Therefore, once again, with all due respect, Mr Minister, I hope that you will overcome so much political hygiene and wisdom on the one hand that you will resign today alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Janja Servant, replica, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u140	Yes, I have to replicate this because now I understand why I was stopped in the middle of a sentence and why I received a reminder. Because the colleague is doing exactly what I wanted to point out earlier, she is now talking about this famous phone call in which, according to her words, the minister is to intervene to conclude a contract with a specific provider. That's what the colleague said. Now, I'd like to know where in this call the Minister has requested the conclusion of a contract with a specific tenderer? And give it to me once a day. Come on! The Minister intervened in order to implement the contract that was concluded. And please immediately, a literal reference to where he said that a contract should be concluded with this tenderer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Proposer Robert Pavšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u142	Yes, Comrade Servant, we've already explained this to the Minister once, and you probably didn't listen at the time. On March 18, otherwise, the minister said that we had invented this date ourselves because it was not known when this video was made. What did the Minister say on the phone to the Department of Stocks? “You pay now,” I will arrange a literal copy. “You pay right away, Bitenc needs to get this deal.” And since the contract with this company was signed on 18 March, it is also clear when it was. Because the method of payment and the amount of payment are an integral part of the contract. So the minister wasn't just scrambling for the advance, but he was grappling for the contract. And he didn't deny it until now, but I told him about it three hours ago, four hours ago, and he didn't deny it. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I hope you got caught on camera.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Replica, Janja Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u144	I'm telling you again. One more time and a hundred more times. Where, when did the minister say make a contract with a specific tenderer?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get Lydia Ivanus ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, first of all, sincere congratulations on your endurance or endurance today because I don't know how many hours. It's mostly horrible. It's terrible, it's enough, and we're going to be sitting in this session for five hours today, unfortunately. That's the way it is. I think you'll last five hours, too. In the introduction, let me say that I do not envy the government and the minister, who have faced the lack of protective equipment and problems with those human resources that have arisen. First of all, I would like to thank all doctors, health - care professionals, hospital and nursing homes, where they have truly saved lives, for every life is sacred and must be saved or honored. At the same time, I must not overlook all those employees who worked in shops, gas stations and everywhere that we are today or that we can live as normal. And, of course, it must be understood that the government and also indirectly Minister Restoration had the basic objective of obtaining protective equipment. You may have achieved this goal, but unfortunately some of the points of view appear to be in order to achieve this goal. Still, and even in the introduction, you have said that you will answer questions today, but unfortunately until today and so far after, I will say after 10, 12 hours, 10 hours of debate and 11 hours of debate we have not yet received answers. First question. When, who, where did he decide not to make direct purchases? Therefore, the State or, on behalf of the State or the Ministry or the institution, may conclude a direct contract with the supplier. He also said that these are also European guidelines, and the President of the Court of Auditors said that it is possible to conclude direct contracts. You've already said something today, but I'm more concerned about and worried about this possibility, which indicated that we could go shopping without intermediaries with the authorities of the People's Republic of China. The Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts was also a guarantee for this business. You were expected to use all your knowledge of the Chinese authorities. And by telling the public that he did everything in his power, that it was not otherwise possible to conclude contracts as indirectly, they could eventually accept it. And this would move away from all suspicions that any intermediaries were involved in this story and that any overpayment of these protective equipment was involved. Unfortunately, however, there is a bitter taste even more so that almost half of the offers remained unattended – some of the unknown causes and reasons, some even being coordinated and then rejected. So once again, Minister, please: who, when, and why did he decide not to go into direct procurement? And why was it not the same as that of some other countries, Croatia and Germany? Today, it has been mentioned several times that Croatians spent 54 million on purchasing protective equipment. We have spent 62 million or we will spend 80 of them today, we do not know this, but - there is here but - in Slovenia we have only 2 million of us, and we have spent 62 million to date. The Croats are once more and have spent 8 million less. So this is where the questions are asked. The next question, to which we have not received clear answers, is when, who and why, has decided to carry out, on behalf of the State, the highest procurement of the Department of Freight Reserves, which has not actually been qualified for such orders. Why did not those who had the opportunity to provide staff with all the relevant competences carry out such an important public contract? Nor is it possible to overlook that perhaps the Ministry of Health could do so, but if the profession then found that they could not do so, they would also transfer it to the Ministry of Public Administration and activate the Directorate of Public Procurement. The Directorate of Public Procurement, which is a professionally qualified institution for the implementation of public procurement. Only experts could be placed in this group and public procurement could be carried out transparently, economically and economically. So, again, why was the Department of Commerce selected? While the minister has said several times that the institution did not have the proper people and the inadequate competences of these people were in the institution. I have to touch this, Mr Minister, at the beginning of the speech, Hmezad TVT d.o.o., which you stated that the contract with this company was concluded at the beginning of March - please listen to me - for the purchase of masks for general use. Again, at the beginning of March. Unfortunately, this is wrong or it is a misrepresentation on the side of the Department of Trade Reserves or it is a lapsus that you said, because, according to the list that we have, which is also maintained by the Department of Trade Reserves, on Day 5. 6. appears to have been ordered 3. 4. 2020. I hope the order is identical with the conclusion of the contract. If not, you'll say it too, but I think it was 3. 4. and that it went from your side to lapsus, but, indeed, it is necessary to give clear instructions or clear explanations. I am also touching some contradictions between the Member of Parliament and you. A letter from your delegation. The Member stated that Marketing had no agreement on the conclusion of the contract, while you, in your debate or in your explanations, said that all the contracts concluded by the Institute had obtained all the appropriate consent. [[Incomprehensible]] Once again, Minister, please tell me whether there was agreement on all contracts or not? I have to say I'm confused, and I think there's a lot of other people. And I also need to touch this impenetrable system that has been put in place. It was an extremely complex system, untransparent, ineffective. Why am I saying that? Since 16. 3. 2020 to 20. 3. the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia has received and fully addressed offers for the supply of protective equipment – up to 20. 3. Days 20. 3. In agreement with the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, all offers were sent or forwarded to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, e-mail, mask.mgrt@gov.si, where they were reviewed - professionally, the appropriateness of the offers - and also security checks. Only three days later, 23. 3. In accordance with the MGRT agreement and the Ministry of Defence, this function was taken over by the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, by means of an e-mail address which was again at the Protection and Rescue Authority, which, of course, resulted in a loss of review between the offers and their evaluation procedure and the choice. The Institute thus lost the opportunity to review the evaluation and selection of contracts taken by the MGRT and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and resolution without taking responsibility, and the institution was left with only the preparation and signature of contracts or contracts with tenderers chosen by others and of course also with responsibility, and the institution was left with only the preparation and signature of contracts or contracts with tenderers chosen by others and, of course, also with responsibility. And look at the fraction, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 24. 3. 2020 has also appointed an Inter-Resort Working Group, and unfortunately there were no representatives of the profession. That is why this Interdepartmental Skuina within itself has set up another supply review working group, which has once again blurred all procurement procedures. Why a system like this? Why so many changes, why such a complex and complex system? I am even more concerned and I reiterate what I have already pointed out on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. Several times today was mentioned by the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Tomaž Vesel, who also checks the acquisition of protective equipment by the appropriateness of these purchases. Once again, I am afraid that the current government will do its utmost to find out by the end of the final report that it will seek opportunities for its withdrawal, the dismissal of the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Tomaž Vesel, who is investigating and investigating the usefulness of procurement. Once again, the health of people and their lives should apply at least some minimum, ethical and moral standards. And I can't and can't and I don't like that I'm constantly saying this, that from the treatment issue of inadequate quality of protective equipment and modes of delivery we also met on the Health Committee 21. 4. 2020, where we have proposed a decision in the opposition and called on the Government to carry out transparent procurement of the necessary protective equipment without intermediaries and to listen in cooperation with the expert, to ensure its proper quality and at the same time to ensure the economy of procurement. And even today, I cannot believe that such a conclusion was not supported by the ruling coalition, the SDS, NSI, SMC and Desus. Why did these SDS, NSI, SMC and Desus make this decision? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word is Lydia Ivanus. Get ready for Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Mr. Minister Restoration. Good-bye, everybody! I will start briefly with a statement from the media, highlighted by an opposition member to the opinion of the work and assistance of people during the COVID-19 of Minister Počvalška and thus the Government. I quote. “It’s about perverted acts and practices that are humiliating to people.” What kind of people were you thinking? That's the question. But, as it is said, the good work of the Government is marked for you in the opposition as a perverted and humiliating act towards citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Would you like to ask all citizens and citizens what is turned around and humiliating to them? The answers would certainly be different, but the fact that they were supplied with financial supplements and medical equipment certainly not. In this case, I wonder what could be listed and included in this sentence, when you were in power, so-called perverted and humiliating actions could be marked by a pre-money laundering, a write-off of millions, smuggling of illegal migrants, corruption in health care and could still be listed. And why everything could be intertwined by certain persons of the former government. And what the taxpayers were actually injured for, and that's respectable to you. Not when a person is trying to supply medical equipment at a time of crisis, which should already be on stock in the stocks, but it was not. And we get reports of overpaid medical equipment during the pandemic, when this was very difficult to deliver, but no one has been interpreting the subject of overpaid medical equipment throughout your reign and it's all sweaty. If you are already at the price of masks, let me point out that, despite the fact that at the time the protective equipment was difficult to deliver, our Government paid masks after 3.04 euros, which means that the purchase prices for the same type of masks fell during the crisis. And in addition to the fact that in the opposition you filed an intervention against Minister Restovalsk on the subject of public procurement and any groundless talk, the fight against the deadly virus is not a crisis situation, but a pandemic, and that the ministers were not acting in accordance with the law. And you think you're kidding. However, it is fair to imagine what you want and what yours is, in addition to the above-mentioned assumptions, a key issue regarding Minister Restoration and our Government. You may have been annoyed by the fact that Mr. Resteršek, who thinks and acts in terms of the CAP, and that he did not have the heart to leave citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at risk, as did Mr. Sarec and his LMŠ, SD, SAB and, of course, the Levica. In these crisis and chaotic situations, he tried, together with all other responsible politicians, who now form a coalition and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and with entrepreneurs and doctors, to solve the problem of urgently needed medical equipment and human health. We can hope that these people and entrepreneurs will help us again in view of the discrimination and humiliation that our country has experienced with the help of today's opposition. And I thank them sincerely for this, and the situation was catastrophic, and there was no protective equipment. What the previous government did or did to keep the warehouses empty is a question. You'd think instead of warehouses, they filled their pockets. Mr Gale, working on the supply reserves, has tried to turn this crisis into a good one and take advantage of this crisis to bring down this government. Otherwise, the gentleman has done this a little awkward, but the commission of inquiry will show the facts. And let me remind you that the government, together with the ministers, didn't have a hundred days, didn't have a minute. It is said that they had to turn 180 degrees and work 24 hours a day and be forced to take rapid action in all areas and trust the participants. People and medical personnel needed medical and protective equipment, that's a fact. Key objective of the intervention lodged against Minister Počvalšk [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u149	Madam Members, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[…]] [[They're both talking at the same time.]] Don't disturb the speaker when he's talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u150	However, the alleged attack on the minister is personally due to the decision of the Government of Janez Janša. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Go ahead. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u152	Good. It is said that people and medical personnel needed medical and protective equipment. That's a fact. The key objective of the intervention brought against Minister Počvalšku is an unjustified attack on the Minister personally for joining the government of Janez Janša. All we can ask is what would happen, how many deaths would it have been if the government hadn't assembled in this pandemic time and went to the polls. Then who would answer all these charges and be intertwined? Who would be politically responsible for the deaths that would happen? Who would be responsible for the medical equipment that wasn't there? You in the opposition today would probably be involved in the campaign. Don't you think it's high time you stopped lying and trying to convict every minister, businessman, individual and entire government who helped in this crisis and did a lot of good for people? Get on with your honest opposition work and start cooperating. It's the good of our country and our children. Instigation, condemnation and lies are not in place and do not belong in the temple of democracy, nor are they an example for our youth, but this interpretation, I repeat, is only an attack on the minister personally. His decision brought down your chair and the fact that you couldn't tear off a piece of cake this time. Finally, I would agree with my colleague Möderndorfer. True, what he said must not be accused of people who have no opportunity to defend themselves. And it might be a fine thing to report this to your new parliamentary group, which innocently condemned families, members of our government without evidence of anything. And I return the word: you may be ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The word is Matthew the Widow. Let's get the mags ready. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. A nation unable to endure great victories and successes is a miserable nation. I don't know why, but this is exactly what happens to the Slovenians over and over again. And for my thesis to be confirmed, we don't have to look far back into history. Ever since the war of independence, we have continued to have problems with major joint successes. Instead of joining us together, they are the object of an ongoing dispute for separation or polarisation at all levels, in particular and also at political levels. The same pattern is happening to us today. When we have achieved an excellent result in the control of the COVID-19 epidemic, an unknown, dangerous and highly unpredictable virus that has endangered the entire population, it is particularly dangerous for the most vulnerable group – a group of older citizens. Interested groups are always found in life and, above all, individuals who are the greatest generals after the events have ended. There's nothing different about this episode. There's a lot of experts who are bragging about how everyone in their own right would solve things better than the competent state authorities. But, look at the fraction, at the most critical time when difficult decisions had to be made, only rarely were those who, with their knowledge of relationships and resources, helped to resolve the matter. To all of them, all of them, all of their confessions. On Tuesday, the mayor of the municipality and the director of the home of pensioners Šmarje pri Jelšah presented the progress of the situation in this area to the Committee on Health and the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. They clearly described all the hardships, problems, uncertainties, ignorance and misunderstandings they faced in the most brutal form in Slovenia. They clearly presented the problems they had in providing protected equipment, the state of the staff at home, the problems the caregivers and their relatives were dealing with, and how the whole local community was solving its problem. The managers of the major trading chains, which had a vivid description of the behaviour of shoppers, were also very eloquent. Customers panicked to buy all the items, literally pulling out of their hands, fighting between shelves, and often just grabbing the items from the carriage carts. Managers and traders have not been able to take over and inspect goods, if appropriate, if it corresponds to declarations, if it is of appropriate quality and so on. In short, no one could verify the quality, content, or quantity, only that the buyers were satisfied. Can you imagine what it would have been like at that time if people in stores couldn't buy food? And why am I telling you all this? What does this have to do with today's interpolation? A lot. Everything, actually. This was the initial state of time when we didn't really know how and what. We only knew that protective masks, gloves, disinfected by hands and respirators were nowhere to be bought. But we all wanted to buy these items. Make it cost as much as it wants, and that's what it costs. This was about health, life and suffering, especially for the elderly. It was necessary to act quickly and effectively so that we could infect the epidemic and adequately protect ourselves while helping the sick. Similar experience with the acquisition of protective equipment from that time has been found in other countries, opting for different routes of purchase. Some intervened after direct purchases, while others did so through suppliers. But they all ran into a lot of big problems. Lost cargo, seized equipment already paid, disputed certificates and so on. This is what Minister Zdravek Restovalšku is made clear, who with all his knowledge, connections and power made a determined effort to provide protective resources. Of course, it was not possible to adhere to all the established rules of public procurement in this rush and the fight in the markets in the initial phase. The main objective was to get the protective equipment to Slovenia at all. In doing so, I must point out that there has been no violation of existing legislation in these procedures. The purchases were made under Article 46 of the Public Procurement Act, which defines the procedures of extreme urgency under unforeseen circumstances. As I am well aware of the public administration situation in the field of procurement, I am convinced that the Department of Commodity Reserves, with such an approach as it already had, would be leading procurement procedures. Today is the time when we all have to thank Minister Zdravek Počvalšek and his team for the successful work done, not to attack him unjustifiably, flatly and without serious arguments. In my discussions, I have repeatedly stressed that I am an advocate of the rule of law. Therefore, on the one hand, I am pleased that today's debate has taken place, so the Minister can explain his work. However, as far as these acquisitions are concerned, we have greater irregularities to investigate the competent state authorities, such as the State Prosecutor's Office, the police, inspection services and, last but not least, the Court of Auditors. However, I cannot agree with the various public media lynchlets that unilaterally and unilaterally represent things or unilaterally and unilaterally represent the truths. But if what I'm hearing today is that the previous government has done a lot in the fight against the epidemic, then the question is, why did it get so elegantly out of it? All Slovenians are responsible for this victory, with conscientious and consistent implementation of the recommendations, so let it connect us and not separate us. Politics that exploit accidents, for promotion only, is not a beautiful policy, and I sincerely hope that this will end as soon as possible. Finally, just the thought of the value of a glass of water or, in our case, a mask depends on when and in what situation, we need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Reploco's got dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u156	Yes, thank you. See, Members and Members of Parliament, we are also guardians of the budget, and if it is not a serious argument that a "breeder" is twice, three times overpaid, and is not useful, and if there is no serious argument that someone is affording 100% of the margin, which some call war profit, then I do not know what a serious argument is, and then obviously I no longer know what part of our shift is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Word [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Excuse me? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[…]] The word has magic. Andrei Reich, please. Get Andrea Zabrett ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. The debate in the National Assembly is becoming ever more varied, even dramatic, and, even my predecessor has been very dramatic, right, and we must be aware that things in health and in Europe have been serious and that this virus has in one way affected our lives, which we have not, in fact, in a way that we have not been prepared for a long time – it has limited our freedom. And, of course, the crisis situation that has been present in Europe and around the world has manifested itself at high prices, in chaotic conditions and also in the failure of a regular procurement system. I, as a citizen and as a Member, am aware that it was not possible to obtain protective and protective equipment in a legal and regulatory manner with the official suppliers. I am also aware that countries have banned the export of protective and protective equipment and have also seized it and that it needs to be corrected here. But I, of course, as a citizen and a Member of the Union, have been disturbed and disturbed before by the creation of some special emergency situations that have helped to, I will say, interested parties who have also seen a business opportunity in the invitation of the Government, have abused this critical situation in their favour and, of course, the offer is a response to demand and if there was a demand, I will say, confusedly, has taken advantage of it and, I will say, taken advantage of the naivety of the demander. And, for me, as a citizen, it's very important that we learn from this. Let us learn that we must have a professional service capable of supplying equipment alone without intermediaries. It is unacceptable to me that we have services that are not able to do so alone, that we have services that are able only to seek intermediaries and this is clearly a practice, not only on trade reserves, but more broadly, in public administration and essentially in public service in these procurement services in public administration, they must be able to carry out their tasks themselves, independently, for the benefit of citizens. Well, they can't be limited to being able to only look for intermediaries. These must be experts and also adequately paid and rewarded. On this occasion, I would also like to make it clear why it seems unacceptable to me that a particular situation has been taken in Slovenia. Our Croatian neighbours have half as much money available for health care as we do, and their minister of health among their inhabitants and citizens has introduced one peace and confidence, our Ministry of Health, and the Secretary of State has talked about the chaotic and crisis situations, and, of course, this has helped to raise prices and disincentives. It is not right and it is not fair that, as a result of this, 2 000, around 2,000 entities, legal or physical, saw their business interest in the government's call. And we must be aware that there are many challenges ahead of us, especially economic ones, to sustain economic growth. That is why we have also spent rationally in our Group in order to propose the establishment of a special budgetary control of the Parliamentary Commission and a specific budget line. Unfortunately, no member group in the National Assembly supported our proposal. Today we are dealing with the consequences again, and we can only conclude in the end that the money is gone. The responsibility of the National Assembly, as well as the recommendations of the European Commission, has gone in the direction that it is necessary to establish a specific single budget sub-account in order to deal with the Covid epidemic, in which all these funds would be recorded, and we Members, if this sub-account were established, would be able to monitor the procurement and use of all resources in real time. Unfortunately, this is not available today, and I fear that we will feel these consequences in the future. Dear Minister, you are personally, I will say, responsible for the responsibility of command, but the matter is broader, and in fact I expect or demand that a system not based on mediation be established throughout the public sector, but that this system can ensure that the needs of the state are provided without intermediaries. So, in the case of the public sector, for example, that if we have a thousand IT employees, that they will not seek subcontractors for maintenance after unnecessary maintenance, but that they will do things on their own, and also in the case of supplies reserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Andre Zabret has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greeting, everyone. I can say good evening. Now, there's been a lot of talk today, and I have to say with the medical equipment itself, there's a lot of fronts open and I'm going to do one, and these are the famous servetic masks. These masks are called masks with rubber, serviette masks, serviette masks, and could also include names that appeared in the media. Now, this mask is made up of serviette and now two red rubbers. This mask, presented by Minister Restovalšek at the press conference, which he showed, also had red elasticity. For these masks, the minister said that it was a delusion that these masks were made of paper, that the UKC had a certificate of the Hospital Infection Prevention and Management Service, that the material was appropriate, that these masks were intended for non-medical purposes, that they received a thank-you from 20 municipalities and 16 companies, and that when the time would be checked all the price offers and that all the white masks should be taken into account in the final price, it was called servetes and rubbers. The only thing he felt at issue with these masks was that maybe, I apologize, it would only make sense to change the color of elasticity, rubbers, instead of being red to be white. Why am I laughing? Because when I was watching this press conference, I couldn't believe whether it was true or not, but today I don't know if it was the minister's cynical statement, he was joking or serious. In short, the biggest thought about this mask was that it wasn't the right color of the rubber. All that I mentioned earlier that the Minister has certified for material and so on, partly or can hold, but the fact that at that time Slovenia did not need these masks because these masks were useful for general use and we needed masks for medical use, which would actually save lives, for which it was constantly repeated and for which medical equipment was to be purchased at that time. And the truth is, as I have already mentioned, the government at that time had to buy protective equipment exclusively for medical use, where the need for masks was the greatest and most urgent and there they were saved lives. And if we look also at the recommendations and guidelines of the World Health Organization, it was not intended to use masks for the wider population, but the Government has procured I must say huge amounts of these service masks, which we cannot place in personal protective equipment or in medical devices. Masks without certificates and such masks were not intended or intended, were not intended to protect against possible infections and were totally inadequate for this purpose. Nevertheless, we delivered them to hospitals, police, municipalities, and civil protection. And here's the question on the spot who lit the green light to buy these masks. The value of all these masks together was 860,000 euros worth of business, which I will explain a little later. The police union also warned that they had received inadequate protective equipment for use in order to receive so-called hygiene masks intended for use in the food and commercial industry for employees who are in contact with food. In the meantime, we were able to see when Minister Hojs wanted to blame the former police leadership for receiving goods from existing stocks, only later did they admit that these masks were to be distributed to police officers only because of the error of an individual police officer. As far as the public's compliments on these masks are concerned, I have not noticed them, but there are quite a few criticisms on these masks, and I may only read one of the statements made by the head of the civil protection Dravograd, who said: “The mask is so narrow that you can only cover your mouth with it, and the nose part and all of these 2,300 masks will be sent back, because you can’t even wear these masks if you already, and these ordinary cooks gums after ten minutes sore that you can’t wear the masks anymore.” A little joke, a little bit maybe, and he didn't have the right color rubber. So much for the quality of the material, and let's move on, the suppliers were here and the prices of these masks were here. This mask paid 860 000 euros for these 1.1 million masks, for which he signed a contract with Korez-Sorting Group and Protecting Lukač. He paid €0.76 or €0.80 for these masks. And if we look at the price of the material, we've overpaid this mask. In fact, if this raw material, material, and elastics were to be purchased themselves, one such mask would cost us about 10 cents. It was made in half a minute and could actually give us instructions from the Government and people would make these masks themselves and would really have them for some urgent general use at a time when other masks were not to be obtained and in the final stage, if the Government had also accepted the first offer from Seti, which makes these napkins, it could only pay 59 cents for these masks. But obviously, as we see in all the purchases of the equipment, the government was not interested in this, because we also have a clear correspondence that Lukač was the one who provided Jelka Godec for the protection business, when she sent an offer from Lukač on 26 March to the MORS, in which she suggested that they should sign this contract with the company. And yes, on March 30th, money was also falsified. After all, man cannot believe that the market inspectorate under the auspices of the Ministry of the Economy is the same mask for which he has signed contracts made from the same raw materials and has only introduced inspection controls in online commerce from another manufacturer. Well, believe me, if you can. Come in. The masks for general use, or they were sewn, we also bought them or the Government bought them at the company Coffectia Maria. But what's interesting about this business is that the company manufactures and sells women, men and children's clothes. And now, if I go back, the MGRT's response was that the minister in this business, Minister Restoration in this business at Maria's company and the department of the supply reserve, did not intervene and there was a process of supply and production of protective masks in progress following established practice. However, we know that the owners of this company are related to Minister Restovalska. Therefore, I am interested, as far as possible, in all of us know that 40% of the offers have not been reviewed, how this offer has been made or taken from that pile of vents, how it has thus come to work, it is only a case that this particular provider has received these masks and similar tenderers has certainly been given more, but that is exactly what they have chosen and I am actually interested in what key or in favouring the tenderer for a certain reason. There are still big things that I could expose, but I don't have enough time. But they will have it, I hope, or definitely the competent authorities, who will identify all these matters in more detail, because today we can only identify political responsibility. And I can only conclude by saying that it is unacceptable that we have purchased masks that were not suitable for use in institutions where we needed them most and now no one wants to take responsibility for the business that the country has paid richly and the masks are practically useless. We know this and also these masks after all the rumors and information we have, they've all been brought back, and these masks are either in the storeroom or in the warehouses of the municipalities, and I don't know where they are, and I'm also wondering when it's likely that these masks will have to be destroyed or taken to the dump, and I'm wondering who's going to pay these shipping costs. It is evident that the deal with these masks was based on political or friendly keys and here is the responsibility of you, Minister, Mr. Restoršek. The Minister's office commits you to responsibility in the first place and for legality, for transparent conclusion of business, it is not the last economic use of public funds, which you have not done after all these facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot, get Gregor Perič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! There's been a lot of saying today. You have even responded to many of the obvious, but I believe that these are largely misleading answers from your side. Since the first fact is and we have repeatedly pointed out this over the past few weeks, he was not qualified to carry out the largest public procurement in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. They had no knowledge, no staff, and no such tasks recorded under their legal duties. Even though you claim to be their legal task, it is not sustainable. The stock of de facto must purchase stocks in normal conditions in order to release them in crisis situations. He doesn't shop in crisis situations. All over the world, primary procurement and supply of protective equipment was led by an institution that is a profession that has at least a term of health. Slovenia is undoubtedly a type of uniqueness here or, when we read the world media, we have found ourselves in a society of quite interesting countries in view of the controversial practices of purchasing equipment in times of crisis. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ukraine, Romania, Colombia, Argentina, all these countries share the fact that corrupt and criminal practices have been reported to them in the area of supply of protective equipment, food and medicines reserves. All this because of loopholes in the law and due to the systematic suspension of key security guards in the execution of public procurement during the epidemiological crisis. I am sorry that we are not in the company of some other countries, such as New Zealand. During the time of the global health crisis, we witnessed truly incredible human stories, human empathy and solidarity, but at the same time we witnessed again and discovered the worst or worst human qualities that came on a day, such as the shameless greed and the quest for money, the creation of incredible gains on human health. Well, how low can we go anyway? How can individual entrepreneurs stand in front of the cameras, take pictures of each other and claim that they did this for Slovenia, that they were patriots, that they wanted to save Slovenia, that they wanted to help? How can you calmly claim this and at the same time know that you have forged incredible profits in this way? And for the record, it's absolutely normal for an entity to pursue profits, because that's the key to a private economic initiative, but when you take pictures before the equipment and claim that you did it to save Slovenia, the least thing that is, everything is absolutely tasteless is real. And then when questions start to arise, under what conditions it was bought, why only the chosen ones, why the chosen ones who have never engaged in the acquisition of protective equipment – and that is, I apologize, as if I, as a lawyer, would now go to supply electromaterials, I have no idea about this – this cannot possibly hold up for me. And then you start with a variety of excuses or syntagma is of course “we saved lives, understand us”. Furthermore, it is a fact that this institution was not selected randomly. It would have been chosen very deliberately because the fact that the procurement system was untransparent, that crisis and chaotic conditions had been created, which then justified the acquisition of equipment based on the principle of the wild west and not some regulated Member State of the European Union. Then there are the various support groups and the inter-ministerial groups for the bono advisors, who are not really, but have guided the work and selection of protective equipment very clearly and directly according to the testimonies. Exceptional informal pressures, extreme unethical practices - all in secret, all behind the scenes. Fearing and mobbing, these practices, which in the end instead of saving lives, have actually endangered these lives. Unusable buffers, useless masks. And to create such a system is someone directly and objectively responsible – and in this case it is you, Mr Minister, because you were superior and because you were primarily obliged to act. If, in fact, the world market situation was so chaotic, then you no doubt knew that individuals would appear who would use this situation shamelessly for their own profit. On the basis of past experience, however, you clearly knew that the institution would not be able to carry out such an order. Nevertheless, it seems all the time that it was the intention and intention to create an opaque and non-transparent system that made it impossible to determine responsibility directly. And taking full responsibility to some individuals who have been charged with signing contracts. You said today that this person is not a whistleblower. It's a classic response to the authorities on whistleblowers, it's a way to destroy their credibility, challenge their credibility. But unlike the rulings, this particular person has made it clear that he is willing to take responsibility for everything he has done, for every signature he has signed, and I have not heard from you to this day. And once again, at the time of the epidemic, no state of emergency was declared, all legislation was in force. The fact is that there were exceptions to public procurement, but this did not mean that all works could be carried out on a superficial or domestic basis, but that there was still a need to follow the principles of economy and transparency, so I am specifically interested in how many lobbyist contacts you reported at the time of the Coronavirus epidemic, because it is clear and clear from the media reporting that these contacts were, so I am interested in how many of them you actually reported and whether any supply of protective equipment was made on the basis of these contacts. And the fact that these crisis and chaotic situations have occurred, which you constantly cite, once again, does not justify all the controversial practices that have taken place and that are still coming today. Not all of this was due to objective facts that were beyond your control, which is a common point in the last three months, whatever we look at, chaos. So when you tell people, you wear masks, you don't need masks, you don't need gloves, you don't need gloves, you don't need gloves, you don't need gloves, and so on, as well as the serious absurdities that happen when you buy protective equipment. Now, but it was here about some awkwardness, for some planned and illogical system of overriding responsibility to some institution, it's essentially totally irrelevant, because both points to negligence and abandonment of due oversight and ultimately directly to your objective responsibility. We, as the opposition, showed you the will to cooperate on 13 March and supported the appointment without any discussion. However, citizens and citizens have trusted you to act economically and conscientiously in these never-seen circumstances. Everything that comes on a day shows exactly the opposite, I'm sorry. Finally, you pointed out that before Slovenia there is a time of great economic uncertainty. We have been reminding you of this since the beginning, with all the proposed anti-krone package laws and measures, we have given you many initiatives, amendments, calling for urgent meetings of the Committee on the Economy, all with a view to assisting and sustaining the economy. Unfortunately, there was no hearing. The result is that today there are many activities on the verge of survival, existence, front door bankruptcys, essential liquidity credits, no one is using guarantees because they do not hope to assume new obligations or because they simply do not meet the conditions. And today I will tell you that because of your deaf ears on our proposals in six months, many companies will be from, for example, the industry of meetings, tourist guides, the diverse, tourist sector in order to simply cease to exist and operate. Therefore, I appeal to you to step out of this pedestal of life-saving and this kind of non-chalant arrogance in the direction of mastering everything, we all know, and indeed take an objective responsibility for the chaos that took place during the epidemic, as well as for the economic disaster that you have committed by abandoning your responsibility and abandoning your hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u163	Thank you very much. He's got the word Gregor Perich, and he's getting Alice Jeraj ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u164	Thank you for calming down a little, because it looks like you're listening in court to two married couples who are separated and so many that they won't kill each other. However, I think it is a shame that Slovenia, but I stress, Slovenia has mastered the epidemic, now we can say that the government has helped if we do not want to, we can say that it has not helped, but the facts or numbers of infections tell theirs and I think they say everything, so that we can be proud on a global scale, it has also been recognized, I think, and I hope that it will also affect not only the economy, but also tourism. As far as procurement is concerned, in that situation that we have forgotten today, but everything was optimal, yes, it was not because chaos ruled, but today it is convenient to say that chaos was gone, today we know much more than we knew two or three months ago, and we are very easy to talk because it is one, to make decisions and make moves is something else. I don't know either, and I don't understand, let the opposition decide a little bit, because Mrs Muršič said, the government's first meeting, dramatically and all, masks that were bloodthirsty. So we decide whether we had full warehouses, but we had empty, it was something in half, I think that if we were purely objective, we could be very correct to ourselves and say that we could have a much larger stock of protective equipment, but we did not have it, for a variety of reasons, I will not repeat it again, why not, who was responsible, because we had already repeated it a hundred times, in recent months, were responsible, every single public institution, health care, purchase, only the last day of the government or the last, the previous government, it came to the Ministry of Health, which was more than emptying a few warehouses of suppliers, Slovenian suppliers who had this equipment in stock and it was actually that. So, I find it hard to get rid of the feeling that the previous Government was kind of passive and not aware of the seriousness of the situation, or, if I was a little more malice, it has already written since 20 February an interpretation for anyone who would come to its work because, in order to resolve this situation, with equipment, if they had started to procure it since 20 February, when, if not elsewhere, from the European Commission or the Council of the European Union, they had made it clear that the situation had deteriorated and if they had gone into action and made some stock, I believe that even all those restrictive measures that had followed later on in or already in the current government would have been much smaller, much less severe, even much less harmful to the economy, which would eventually also have reflected in a much smaller fall of GDP, if we were already counting millions, tens of millions or hundreds of millions of millions of damages. So let's ask ourselves a little bit more about these things, but we're doing such very easy calculations. So, once again, I find it hard to get rid of the impression that it was waiting for interventions, all these urgent interventions, when getting equipment, to the next government. So much more this impression has been confirmed to me around these calculations, how many fans do we have? Today we're 11. 6th and only 11th. 6. colleagues from LMŠ, despite the fact that they led the Ministry of Health for almost two years, have found out how many of these “insectors” or whatever we call them, Slovenia prevails. Well, are we serious about all this stuff? I don't think so. So let's stop this debate, which is actually not going anywhere, because it's only meant for some accounting, and I can't get rid of the impression that there is also some resentment, some bad will that some other government has been created, even though the desire for early elections and is still present, is extremely strong. I don't want it to happen again at any time, that then doctors write to us that professional ethical topics become part of the accounts, that we take advantage of every thing we have done in the past period to protect our citizens and citizens, for some prestigious political struggles and who survives here, survives who doesn't, but simply doesn't. I'm aware that the left, the left middle, or whatever we call it, is a problem because here the power is measured between different actors and what it would be easier to do or how it's easier to pull it off than on someone else's back. If you're doing this already, okay, it's politically legitimate, but let's not do any damage at the expense of the state, because I think we're going to need each other in the weeks and months ahead and they're not going to be easy. So, let's stop here and stop being so controversial about things that aren't going anywhere, and at the end of the day, let the other institutions do their job, so I won't support this interpretation, because I think it's just thinking about the time that started since 13. 3. Ignore everything that was before March 12th this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Member Alenka Jeraj has the word, and she will receive the word of Tadej Šuštar. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] Sorry, I didn't see. We will, however, give the floor to the proposer first. Robert Pavsovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Well, it is very interesting that the Group of Members had to find out how many foster parents we actually have in this country. This could be done by any of the ministers who exhibited themselves in these purchasing flows with only one request. How many did we have? Just like that, 453 on March 13th. But what's interesting is that on the SNAV, which was already in January, the beginning of the year, this issue was raised. And the Secretary of State was on this SSNAV. And what was then the response of all experts to control the potential epidemic? That the equipment is enough. That's why there was no panic. And today it appears once again that there was no real panic because we had enough ventilators or ventilators, even though the respirator is something else. And speaking of which, let's go, what my colleague earlier asked, literally a record of a phone call. The Minister of Economy said: In three hours, in two hours, three hours he said he would have, they would make a bank guarantee for this Beatenac. But the bit will have to get it. You pay now. Let's move on. Someone who's not named, okay, okay. And then the Minister of Economy says again, "Pay. Unnamed: whatever we pay for. And there's two more. What do all those who want to do with these fans give a hundred percent advance? The minister said, "No, that's not what I said. To anyone who wants to. I said this. But for the rest of you, you'll take care of it. Ask them where they have something for bank guarantees. Nameless: Yes, at least something. Minister: For this you will receive a bank guarantee or we, whoever. Nameless: Yes, no, we. Okay, it's a deal. From this it is clear that the emergency for the advance or for the signature of the contract, given that we know the business bonds, was for both of us, I think. And you never denied that call either. It's only important when it was. If we denied it, we could develop another thesis. Maybe he called Vid Valič, which is very good at imitating you, or Jure Godler, if we're playing so much in the middle. On March 17th, I have already spoken today, and again, Marko Bitenc will send to your Secretary of State and Andrei Potočnik at gmail: "I am sending another offer, in the armor that is to be confirmed today, lock, in the attachment. Respirators are now waiting in the warehouse and can be delivered in three days." And then this post of Andreja Potočnik from the cabinet of the Minister, so signed, sends forward Prof. Dr. Podbregar to: “I kindly ask you for your expert opinion on the following respirators. We need them for the purchase of the country for the Department of Freight Reserves." And now they were flying in between when we were discussing this, and we got a few more e-mails from different people. Just so you know, let me know where Framed's offer for 50 fans went, because we haven't been able to verify it yet. And I have another interesting correspondence. Among Tejo Pirih the economic consultant at the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Beijing and also your cabinets, among many of the addressees is your cabinet or your secretary of state. It reads: "Today 23rd 3. 2020 I went to review production and checked whether the actual dispatch of 20 respirators ordered through Geneplanet and intended for Slovenian hospitals will be sent. I looked at the production, opening and talking to the sales manager," I'll let go of who was the sales manager. “The first company has a capacity of 110 respirators per week. According to the leaders, capacity sales cannot be increased at the moment because of 28. 1. They work all the time. They rented another floor to increase production but do not get workers due to movement restrictions, many have not yet returned to Beijing.« and so on. There's quite a few of those points. But it is an interesting one, fifth point, or fourth point earlier, “They were called by the Chinese Embassy in Ljubljana to make shipping important for Slovenia. According to them, Slovenia is on the priority list and the next point, I told them that it is a state order for patients, and that it is of paramount importance that they stick to the agreed deadlines. And that's exactly what I've been asking you all along and you've only confirmed me today between one sentence. The Ministry of Economic Development has chosen a private company for the conduct of state affairs, through two embassies, China in Slovenia and Slovenia in Chinese. And we also got another price interestingly in this correspondence inside. Siriusmed R30 costs between 10 and 12 000 euros with all the equipment, which is also better with additional equipment, and R50 is more expensive for 2 to 3,000 euros. By no means can the price be higher by 300 %. It can't be. And you didn't deny this job. You even confirmed it today. The country chose a private company that could have made a 300 per cent higher margin, let's say prices were even higher, 150 per cent margin, and that seems to you to be an economic purchase. Just one job. For 108 million transactions, it is still open at the Department of Commerce Reserves. So much for once that I don't run out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word is by Ambassador Alenka Jeraj, to prepare Tadej Shuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u168	This implementation today could be said that after the battle, every general, you speak as if we did not live in Slovenia at the end of March, as if we were living here in ideal conditions where we had peace and a beautiful time to examine offers and in peace to review prices, to compare prices and even after we decided what to buy, we would have done it nice and easy, and we all know that that was not the case. For the first time, we were in the process of changing the government in front of us, a very bad scenario in Italy. On March 13, evening, the government swore and found that the supplies were empty or that they were gone. Fellows from LMŠ, you should be congratulated that to this day you count fans as many as there were, because then the Government did not get any handovers in which it would be clear how many fans in the country are or whether we have enough depending on the things they indicated. Although Minister Gunter said at the time, it was just some sort of indicative assessment, probably already received some data at 2:00 p.m., 13. 3, we have 168, we'd need at least 100 more. So at least, to report to the new government that she did not know how many fans we have, colleagues from LMŠ, the Minister of Health was at that moment in front of Mr Gantar, Minister Šabeder of the LMŠ species and he should have had information as to how much fan he was and he should have told the new Government how much to buy if he had not already started to procure them. Now, obviously you haven't read the report, it's been very critical, we've been talking about it all day, for all those who wonder why the stocks were chosen to purchase. So in 2016, we have adopted a plan, a state plan for protection and rescue in the event of an epidemic or pandemic of infectious diseases in humans. I don't know if Charcho's government took him into their hands or didn't get him when the new government arrived, 13. 3., in the evening, it took into account this state plan, by the way, it has to be said, it was adopted in 2016, tested in 2018 by another government, not ours, where it was found that it would likely be a narrow throat and a problem arising from the central purchase on the supply reserves, but those who would be in charge and should then fix it and supplement it so that it would not be a problem, it did not, but the state plan rumbled back into the drawer and then the new government took it out of the drawer 13. 3. And then the national plan for protection and rescue in the event of an epidemic or pandemic of communicable disease in humans predicted that the purchase would be taken away, so it goes from purchases by hospitals and after institutions to central procurement at the Institute for Commodity Reserves of the Republic of Slovenia. And this was done according to the state plan that was adopted here and accepted by two governments before this government. So that those of you who have discussed this have already had one debate on this subject, we have already discussed it, I don't know if you have read the report or not, you have criticized it very much, you would expect to read it, and that is what this report also says. Now that the meeting proved in fact, this was not a test, but when we were actually in such a situation that the supply reserves would not be able to do this work, an interdepartmental group with people from several ministries was established, which then divided the work into as much as it ran according to the extraordinary circumstances in which we were. Now let's go back to that time. We had 133 infected on March 12th, March 21st, 383, then the numbers were still growing, March 29th, we had 73 people hospitalized, so not everyone needed fans, but 73 people were hospitalized in a few days, and later 110 even hospitalized and, as was then said, the number was still growing. At that time, in the middle of Italy, a whole bunch of cities were already in isolation or quarantine, 368 people died in Lombardia on the day, 368 people died, and Slovenians were watching reports and baptisms, where they said that people over 60 would never attach them to fans because they didn't have enough. It was a time when they had to gather in Italy to whom the fans would be given and to whom they would not. On 9 February they had one and a half pages of obituaries, and on 9 March they had ten pages, and we Slovenians watched and watched also Vlada, the morgues in Bergamo cannot accept all the dead, the crematorium is buried, 250 baptisms were waiting in the crematorium, so baptisms with the deceased are temporarily laid in the church of all the saints at the cemetery. Such conditions were, 7 times more dead than usual, and as said in Italy, there were not enough fans, then the story of a 72-year-old priest who gave up the fan to the younger one and so on. In Finance 13. Marca's respirator is the most important thing in the Coronavirus, in Italy they're doing them as in the war situations where we are. Where are we? As Minister Gantar said at the time, we have 168, at least 100 more. You just listed 400, you mentioned the clinical center. Let me tell you the clinical center is commissioned on March 12 with one company 50 fans and the other 54, i.e. 104 together, in three days to 17. 3. they got them, so in five days, they got 3, to 24. 4, so one month later, when they were ordered, they got 16 of those 104. By not saying that it was all very easy to get and that it was available. Now, where did Framed's offer go? She hasn't disappeared, they just said they'd been successfully supplied since 3. April further, that's 14 days or 3 weeks later, when we had, as I said, 383 infected and over 110 people in hospitals and the number went up like that. Now you're saying we have too many, then it might be too little. And that's why it was necessary to get them, and thank God they got them, if you remember on TV we watched Dr. Trumpuz predicting that Slovenia would reach a critical limit in mid-April when there are not enough respirators in the country, projections predict that in mid-April the respiratory system will need almost 400 patients, according to one forecast of 595. And now the government is supposed to be waiting if we need them or if we're supposed to get them, like she did, and she's got what was available. Look, in the report again, which I don't know, you obviously didn't read it, delivery deadlines late April, late May, as soon as possible, as soon as possible. Do you order anything as soon as possible? It could be June or August. So it was necessary to get or order those who were available immediately or at least in some relatively short time, say, successful, first something, then something and so on, what happened in the case of Geneplanet. No, you would have waited until now to "smart" that we have 400 fans now too and we don't need them. Thank God we don't need them. If I had numbers like Bergamom, I'd probably be discussing or criticizing the minister why they didn't get them when it was time. It's better we have too many than we have too few. And those fans who were already in Slovenian hospitals weren't all free. We have now because not all are in waiting use in Covid. Hospitals have them and use them for other diseases. So it was necessary to figure out how free it was, if anything, and so on, right, but we're talking, like it was a nice quiet time when we could walk through hospitals, counting how many ventilators or ventilators we had and so on. I mean, let's just remember what it was like back then, remember when you were at home, and pray that you wouldn't get sick, but not here to attack and talk some nonsense. Now, buy it directly. In this country, through intermediaries, we've been buying medical equipment for 30 years. Some say there are overpayments of 400 million. Who cares? SD? Are you worried? You had ministers. It's been happening all these years. No, that's the problem now, but in emergencies, that's one big problem. The minister said why they were getting it like that. We had already had cases, Zurich, Hamburg, for 15 million masks that never came. Stuttgart, advance payment for the supply of protective masks, 700,000 euros. The English have sent a plane to China, at the edge, already paid for everything, they've come with an empty plane back. A company in Hong Kong has earmarked 2.4 million for the supply of protective masks that have never existed. And a whole bunch of these cases, and now all these countries are negotiating that these advances, these advances they've made, will get back. And you're asking why we decided to get it like that? The Minister said that we will get the equipment or that whoever will have to deliver it guarantees and he takes the risk and I don't know what the problem is, because also, because when you buy the car, you don't go looking for it in Korea, but you buy it from an agent in this country. [[…]] And you're reading that it wasn't in line with the law. It was in line with the law. Under Article 46 of the Public Procurement Act, it is a negotiated procedure, without prior publication, which can be used in case of extreme urgency and, through intermediaries, as I said, because of the risk that these overpayments would not end up somewhere and would not end up getting the equipment. Now, something else was said, right, from colleague Heferla, that we had the guidance of the European Commission. So we received the European Commission's guidance on 1 April. 14 days after we were in very critical situations or Italy at all, we approached it. Remember, at the time, Serbia closed the border for us not to go there, because the virus spread from Italy to us, and if we did not then take measures and close the movement between the municipalities and so on, it would actually spread as it did elsewhere. There was a hot spot somewhere, and then it went all over the country. Then we managed to stop it. I'm sure that if Charc's government continued to be, it wouldn't have happened, because we said we'd close schools, half-forced them, because when everyone got angry, why don't we shut down schools and parents, they didn't send the kids themselves, and so on. And besides, right, this European Commission has finally promised us one mask on May 8th, so three months after, excuse me, two months and a half after the outbreak began with us, that it will give us masks. And remember, we got these masks and they said, "don't use them yet, because there's probably some problems with them, they're wrong." And this European Commission is supposed to be waiting for me. Now, in overpayments, so the advances that these companies received, this was 5 companies, 4 companies, in fact, that said they would deliver immediately. The Minister said that they needed to be given an advance if we wanted to get this equipment and it happened back then before we set up this commission, and before things went on, I will say normal, although normal at the time were not at the beginning or the end, because they couldn't be because prices were changing from hour to hour, supplies were changing from hour to hour. Here we have in the report that someone said “we will deliver this”, the company Labena, and then they announced that the delivery was cancelled by Laben, because MidRay fans are no longer available. This happened in one day, 16 they signed, 17 they announced "we can't get" and it was interrupted. I don't know if you've read it. I mean, things weren't that pink, no. Now two more words about influence and what we listen to all the time. Look, I wrote to the Director of the Reserve because I know him because he's mayor of the Municipality of Velika Lašče, where I run and we're also colleagues in the party, for one company to know them and to look at their offer. What happened then, I wasn't in the business. They looked at their offer, it wasn't right, and we didn't buy it. It's not an influence for me. Influence would be if I called ten more times and demanded that this company be taken, and I didn't do it, like no other colleague of Jelka, and I don't know who else dragged us there then through the newspapers and the media. What's the impact, we probably know, don't we? If I asked them to take this company and that this company had to get a job, then they could have accused me. But that we said "look at their offer, we know the company, it's okay" and that's not an influence. That is why the expert commission that looked at it concluded that the offer did not correspond and did not choose them. It wasn't our job. It was those who reviewed the offers. And yesterday, on another committee, we argued with colleague Sukičeva, who claimed that we had spent 200 million and Croatia only 50. Look, first of all, we don't know if Croatia has already finished delivery and it's only going to be 50 because it's probably the same as us when contracts are still in progress and everything hasn't been delivered and everything hasn't been paid yet. The Minister said: until now we have spent 62 million. We'll probably get there by one 80, that's how many contracts. However, if you read the report and its reply, but the contracts were concluded for EUR 183 million, but of course they were not all realized, because, as I said, someone cancelled, could not obtain, it changed, whatever. And when I tell RTV why they give false information, they have such information. They've been stuck here all day, they've been filming everything, and they can't tell from the reports, and from everything we say a hundred times, read the right number. I mean, it looks like we're going to work for, I don't know, a little bit of a joke, but not to be serious and not to be exaggerating where we don't have to go too far. So this interpolation is, of course, an attack on the entire government. Those who have problems with the fact that this government, colleague Bandelli, has been talking about Janez Janša, who is not in the procurement project, colleague Pavšič as well. If we don't find John Janša, there's something wrong, isn't there? But you won't find Mr. Restoring either. And if you're talking about not knowing what kind of profits and I don't know what kind of commissions, you have to prove it. In crisis situations, however, prices cannot be as they are in a peaceful situation when we can buy after a public invitation to tender, when we can check prices, compare them and then decide on the cheapest. The circumstances were like I described to you, and it's really hard for me not to suddenly remember what happened two months ago, when, literally, the countries were stealing equipment, they ran out, on the way, the state was just taking a truck and so on. I also have acquaintances who supplied equipment, they were taken in Germany by a truck that was on its way to our Clinical Center. But they won't get paid anyway, because they've got three months to pay, and since they've never delivered it, they're not gonna pay for it. So it wasn't all that it could be. And for the end, just this. One contract is nothing to worry about, 14. 4. So when things calmed down a little bit, and when Minister Restoration said, we will now purchase prices peacefully and compare prices and I do not know in extraordinary circumstances, but then Mr. Ivan Gale signed the Sla marketing contract, d.o.o., for the supply of 2 million three-layer masks worth 1.8 million euros, he signed the contract, even though the minister then said, 10. 4. That, at regular coordination, things should be calmed down and contracts should be more rationalised to be signed. And 14. 4. The contract signed by Mr Gale was paid on the same day and on the same day he has already delivered 1.4 million protective masks. That's very controversial, but you won't ask Mr Gallet that, you won't call him to account, you'll ask the Minister here for some contracts that were running, just like they were signed. This contract is really problematic. And it is also in the report, and since we will have an accounting court, it is already investigating, I do not know who else is investigating, the commission of inquiry in this House will investigate, and then we will find out where we are and how it is. Of course, I won't support interpolation. It seems to me that in two months you really forget the situation we've been in, and here you're going to have to do a little bit too much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The text is by the motioner Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u170	Well, the fact that you supported the interpellation was illusory, and we didn't expect that from you. How many fans do we need? They can't tell the government. Only a few hospital directors would ask how many fans you have, and they'd say. It doesn't have to be the whole science of this, but there's a difference in that, but you're justifying such panic shopping of every commodity at all costs with a number of fans. And this number is moving, consciously, from 0.20, 30, 168, 281 and now 453. This is a problem, not in the express potential shortage, but in the fact that the government has obviously deceived the entire public with the number of fans and it has only admitted this on May 25th. Minister Gantar admitted that in mid-March or late March at the latest they knew exactly how many fans were in that country. It is not a problem in the number of fans, the problem is that there were obviously enough ventilators and that it was not as hasty as you want to show it now. And it's for every money, and it's the least appropriate fans. You can convince everyone alive, but as far as your call is concerned, I hope you reported him to the KPK as a lobbyist contact, because that was actually what it was. And one more thing, almost half of the bids have not been reviewed, it was yours, obviously your intervention, and this is an impact on the procedure. But it was realized or not, it doesn't matter at all, you have succumbed to lobbyist contact and hurry forward, with your intervention this offer was dealt with, while almost half of them were not.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The replica of Alice Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u172	So, Minister Gantar said on March 13th that we have 168 respirators and that we need at least 100 more, and the contracts were concluded, so they began to sign or were concluded 15. 3, 16. Three, 17. 3. At the end of March, you said we knew how many we needed. If Minister Shabeder handed over and said, we have, I don't know, 200 fans, we need 100 more, then this government would know what it needs to get and how much it needs to get. You didn't do your job. Don't put that on others. Then Minister Gantar got the information he got, and then they went to check the hospitals, which we should have at first to know what we need to buy. And, as I said, 16, 17, 18 were chosen by these fans and concluded contracts, because I said that moment in Italy people over 60 years had not been attached to fans where there were no fans and neither did we. Today we have 400, I don't know how many, but then we didn't have them. However, Mr Trumpus predicted that we would need at least 400 if not 595, 25 March.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Proposer Robert Pavšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u174	Thank you very much. On 28 February it was the exact number of fans at the Ministry of Health. She stayed with a professional co-worker who then continued to work in the next government, so please stop mumbling this information. The problem is that even when you were aware of it by 25 May, you insisted on the number 168 until 25 May. We could have said, look, we had the wrong data, but we still need these foster parents, and we don't. By May 25th, you insisted on wrong data, and I don't know how else to draw it for you or draw it for you. It's a delusion. It's not a real number. You were making it up, all the time. Once with these bases second time with other bases. By May 25th and May 15th, the epidemic had ended, otherwise it was only a formal one.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Member Tadej Šuštar has the floor and will be given the floor by Ambassador Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u176	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. The presentation of the subject of interpolation was full of lies. If the applicant were then connected to a polygraph at the time of the presentation, he would probably go crazy. Perhaps not, for it is quite possible that he himself believes his lies, for they have been repeatedly repeated in the opposition, and lies in their eyes are slowly becoming the truth. At the beginning of the epidemic, warehouses were empty, which was taken care of by the Government of Marjan Šarc. The former Government, despite Europe's largest hotspot in neighbouring Italy, did not instruct Slovenians not to go there, so the claims that they did everything in their power at the time are inappropriate. I believe we all know what was going on in Italy, the equipment the neighbors didn't have, the hospitals were too busy, there were a lot of dead. Doctors and medical personnel have made their own equipment, made their own protective clothing out of garbage bags, which is by no means suitable for the fight against coronavirus, so it is no wonder that the Italian script was horrendous and we all wished that it would not even be realized in Slovenia. The equipment did not receive any medical facilities, but throughout the world, and the protective equipment was a highly sought-after commodity. Any protective equipment came in handy at the time, whatever. Even if we paid EUR 5 for one mask, it would be worth buying, as it would ensure the protection and safety of doctors, medical personnel and other people and, of course, would also save lives. Of course, now the opposition is smart, how everything was done, everything was won and there was no problem, there was no problem in delivery. I wonder what they were doing then? We know that he also wanted to help deliver masks and sent e-mails where they had protective equipment. Before the outbreak occurred, the then government, the government of Marjana Sharca, sent equipment to China and left empty warehouses. I remember a personal doctor's request, at the beginning of the epidemic, to obtain protective equipment so that she could take care of her regular patients because she didn't get the equipment, she closed the infirmary because she didn't want to endanger her older patients in particular. The equipment was really lacking, it wasn't in nursing homes, it wasn't in hospitals, warehouses, or nursing homes. The current government faced empty warehouses immediately after the takeover and did not have hundreds of days of peace and had not had a hundred hours of peace, but more than one night before they started hard and responsible work. But it hasn't been 100 days since the government's oath, since we're already considering the first interpellation, which, of course, I won't support. Interpellators can understand only in the context of how much pain they are in when they threw the rifle into the corn at the peak of their power and rule, and for the next second they regretted that they did not have these rifles on the rope and remained in the corn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Rudy Bear's. But prepare only the Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We hear that a debate like today means incredible conflicts, divisions, attacks and who knows what else. Look, it's the government to rule. The opposition is to keep Vlad under control. What's weird about this? To let the government look under the fingertips and when it thinks that maybe things have gone too far, the Institute of Interpellation is used, and this interpretation is so incredibly unusual, I think in the history of independent Slovenia, I think 48. If I am not mistaken, then nothing is unusual. Not to expect the opposition to paint the government's work, as it is lacquered by the coalition, which is in some ways normal, but also through this varnish the stains hit and the opposition rightly warns. And we're still hearing about this corn, and this corn, if we mention it again in another context, is a high official of the state now, and before, a fellow Member saw it quite differently, two parties saw there kneeling on corn, among other things. And another new theory we've heard is that Marjan Sarec gave up because of COVID-19, and this is the new theory that was produced here today by the Modern Center Party, and the Modern Center Party really knows why Marjan Sarec gave up if someone, and then this party, because it just took off, wiped out the political space, in the coalition there were two masked parties for a while and then the masks fell before we put them back on and that's all the truth of it when we're talking so much about corn and rifles and I don't know what else. Dear Minister, I will not treat you as a criminal, but all your colleagues and all those who have participated in these procurement procedures, but this is not in my vocabulary, and I have a certain respect for both the people and the functions you perform, so they are responsible for some institutions that will investigate things and I believe that if something is really wrong that it will also be sanctioned, but I am afraid that today, in this debate, he was already preparing the territory as indicative, because, of course, the Court of Auditors is also investigating these cases, today colleagues and colleagues from the coalition have already done a good job with the President of the Court of Auditors, better discrediting them, and I now think that the few are not far from the extreme left, will soon become a cyclist according to these explanations, but of course better to discredit in advance just in case. What, of course, if the Court of Auditors finds such and other irregularities? The President is already discredited, and, of course, this report will also be shown in public that nothing applies because the President is either way under the influence, I don't know who. And these are these methods, I mean, dangerous methods, because then, of course, there can actually be that there was nothing wrong. Because even if someone has proven that he is, but he's still a leftist, a communist and he's not, we say to us, on our belt. I argue, however, that, although I know and know what the Public Procurement Act says, in such cases, but also in these circumstances, the Public Procurement Act is not immune or prohibits transparency. He commands transparency. And here, of course, given all the data that has been shown here and today, but also throughout this period, we have reasonable doubts that everything has not been so transparent. And it started with a question that's still not cleared, why did it all take over the Department of Commodity Reserves, given that the stress test in 2018 showed that people there or that the institution did not mature into an epidemic of some common flu, I don't know, COVID-19. However, regardless of this stress test, this decision has taken place and it is not true that the state plan to activate the national plan means automatic transfer of this activity to the Department of Freight Reserves. That's just not true. The Ministry of Health is legally responsible for these acquisitions, but there was this unusual decision when it became aware that the institution would probably not grow up and that several times it was from the types of government, including by the Ministry of Economy, that the Department of Commodity Reserves of these things would not be able to drive. Then, of course, an epidemic struck him in the institution. But it is not unusual to remember the period of purchase of fences for the Slovenian-Croatian border. There, too, these fences began to be purchased by the Ministry of the Interior, and then quickly everything moved to the Department of Trade Reserves. And then there were providers without references, with one employee or with no employees, even taxpayers. That's the pattern. In fact, at the final stage, it is not surprising that this has moved to a trade reserve facility in sound with all the commissions and working groups that have acted further to address the whole situation. And the Department of Trade Reserves will be what we can have available data, really it was nothing more than a decision maker who made decisions elsewhere. And now we don't believe he's made any decisions to the Department of Commerce, but he's just signed the contracts after the buffet. This is also borne out by public statements. So a few months ago, we lived in a normal country where Members resigned because of a sandwich or ministers because of stupid e-mails. And now we're in some new reality, this is now this new reality that I don't believe the epidemic has brought it, but it's the way it works, the government's way of operating this coalition and this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Member only Bevk has the floor, and Mr Kepa will discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to be very brief because I'm not agreeing to the night meetings. I think we should finish every session at 10 p.m. at the latest. We even once had a rule of procedure that defined regular meetings from 10 a.m. to 18 p.m., and that would be wise to reintroduce. Now to the agenda. These problems are or are being faced entirely in the world. A crisis like it's been a long time. A true leader, such as Janez Janša as Prime Minister, or a real politician and minister when you, Mr Restovalšek, show that he does not take advantage of an emergency situation for his selfish party's interests, but usually must lead a state- and state-of-the-art policy. You have had an extraordinary opportunity that may be offered once in your life, but unfortunately you have lost it, including by opening up ideological themes, profiteering, some party escapades of individual ministers or with an insincere offer of a partnership for development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Kepa, a member of the Committee of the Regions, has the floor and will be discussed by Ms Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to secretaries, ministers, colleagues, colleagues. The infection began to spread across Europe after the end of China’s new year, when workers started to come back to Europe. The largest epicenter of infections was in Italy, which is our country's neighbour. The then government, the government of Marjana Sarca, later reacted as countries that did not border it. The previous prime minister should take the matter more seriously, he did not listen to the advice of experts, his statements were that doctors, that doctors were afraid of the virus, were totally inappropriate for healthy people coming from abroad, including from endangered areas, to remain in the hospital stock and so on. The stock of protective equipment in the warehouses was very poor. On 13 March 2020, the new government received almost empty warehouses, only before the resignation did they apply for a slightly larger quantity, pressure from the opposition. When the epidemic broke out, it was very difficult to obtain equipment, to obtain protective equipment, and it was almost impossible to obtain equipment because it was not available. The decision was to obtain it through intermediaries because there was no experience and staff feeding. Thus, the responsibility fell on the intermediary companies who bought the equipment in this way. Foreign countries, which were also directly procured, also had very serious procurement difficulties. Respirators were paid in advance to intermediaries, in part or in full, on guarantees, and they were still the biggest problem because all countries urgently needed them and directly saved lives. For example, for example, why they are not procured without intermediaries, for example, at a clinical centre that has been purchased through intermediaries for decades, millions are lost, tens of millions. Behind these acquisitions were Boter Zemljovic and other colleagues. This acquisition was investigated by a colleague of Godchev's before the time. Practically everything on the market or what will be produced in the near future, from the worst to the worst or less suitable respirators, is acquired. It is commendable that in the middle of the epidemic, Slovenian companies and individuals have also organised and started to make laundry masks, and a group of companies have produced respiratory or “restors”, otherwise not “certified” to save lives if the epidemic or other wave continues to spread. After a good two-month period, the first interpellation of the Minister, the current Minister of Economic Affairs, has already been announced a second interpolation against the Minister of the Interior. The Golden Rule so far was valid, 100 days of peace to the new government. The next issue, the warning of the number of “adults” is misleading, as it did not know how much will be needed, given the spread of the epidemic. We saw the shortage of respirators in Italy, causing mass deaths. More than 200 doctors and other health personnel died. In our left-wing media, it has been shown that our actions are too strict and that we should follow Sweden and Great Britain, where the government's actions have been much milder, but it later turned out that such an approach has been disastrous for people there. The purchase of all protective equipment, from masks to respirators, took place as if in a war situation. All countries have had difficulties in purchasing emergency protective equipment. The main producers have production located in China. It's a debate about Gallet, about a suspected whistleblower. If I really wanted to draw attention to my mistakes, I would have done it at the beginning, but not at the end, when business with his "preferred" companies was not carried out. The fact is, not every comedian can take over as Prime Minister. We don't need mushy prime ministers. We need strong, brave government presidents. Especially in times of crisis. The real prime minister, despite the resignation of the two ministers and the threat of the coming disease, does not throw the rifle into the corn. The functioning of the current government, Janša's government, during the epidemic, has been praised by many media throughout Europe and around the world, since we are one of the most successful countries in the control of the virus and the first country in Europe to end the epidemic. The cost of overcoming this disease will be high due to a two-month period of delinquency, but the survival of the population is the highest. We had a small number of deaths, according to other countries. If we don't have the epidemic again, the economy will recover by the second year, this year it is projected to be negative, around 7% of GDP, and next year it will be roughly the same. Anyone who has helped overcome the virus should be commended. All those who have tried to obtain protection during difficult times are commended especially for health personnel, civil protection, and others. All residents who have followed the instructions of the government’s professional services should be commended. I think the Minister of Economy has done his job very well in times of crisis. They worked day and night, worked with other ministers to bring in protective material, and acted very responsibly in times of crisis. As an economic minister, it would be more appropriate to help the economy today without wasting time here. However, I would expect more constructive comments and comments from the opposition, but for the benefit of all people, less political beatings. I'm not going to support the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u183	Thank you very much. There's a colleague, Masha Kociper, who's got the word, and she's getting ready for the mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u184	Thank you, Vice President. Every time, if not another time, I smile a little bit when a member of the SDS reminds myself that he wants more constructive comments and constructive cooperation and less opposition bargaining in all the bargaining and unconstructiveness that we have been receiving from this party for years and years. But that's not the point of today's debate. In fact, after 13 hours, it is difficult to say and, I wonder myself about the meaning of such long meetings and such long debates. After 13 hours, one side of this hall remains fully convinced that the Minister has done nothing wrong, reminds us all the time what the situation was and how difficult it was, how it was at the time the other situation was, and the other side, in particular the interpellation proponents, fully convinced that everything was wrong. By the way, it's a great honor, Minister, to sit here all these hours and hold this session. I have to say to myself in these 13 hours that I haven't created a clear picture, and I don't think a man can. After all, this is a matter of some very specific charges, some charges in terms of exploitation, in terms of abuse of powers or the acquisition of public funds, budgetary resources and so on. These are very, very serious accusations, and to expect that in one such political debate in such a heated space, it will be possible to find the right answer, one way or another, is illusory. It is even more illustrative to expect that part of this hall will not use such a debate to continue the civil war, which I personally have already filled with suitcases, indeed, at all, on a day like this when I am listening to it for 13 hours. I was when it began to talk about this, first with great understanding, looking at all the ministers of the government, which is not my government, the government, which represents my client and I personally opposition, looked with great understanding at the fact that, at one time today, they were in a very critical situation where they had to turn very quickly and when we really didn't know, even we sitting in this hall, whether it was some ordinary virus, a little more severe flu, or maybe Spanish flu, such as they knew years and years ago in the last century, when millions and millions of people died in a very short time. According to some estimates, 50 million. On March 13, 20, 25, there was no way to know and the worst scenario was possible. And right, as I said, with understanding and compassion, I was looking at the new government, the new ministers, who were able to deal with this very unpleasant situation, the situation where there were these medical devices, the respirators, when you didn't know what you were going to get, when you'd get what you needed, and these were certainly very, very difficult times. And people have worked hard and certainly, at least for the most part, worked with the desire to do something good and to help the country. In this sense, I do not accuse even those who have deliberately sent any contact but have tried to help the belief that things are not enough and that they may be able to help. But as has already been said, the opposition in the parliamentary system has a role to play, and this role is to keep the coalition under guard. And if there is only a potential percentage of the possibility that someone, such as a high politician, is not necessarily a health resort, it could be found that it was anyone else, or any high official in such a situation that we witnessed for the first time in life, went camping, went to war profits, and then it is really extremely, extremely rejected. And if the role of the opposition is in what, it is certainly in watching how budget money should be used as rationally as possible. Even in times of crisis. Because you know, there's opportunity for a thief and a lot of things happen just when something's going fast. Therefore, at the outset, in the first laws, the SAB proposed parliamentary supervision, direct parliamentary supervision, such as is now recommended by the European Commission one month or three weeks ago, where Members would receive these supplies and all these spending of resources and, as we have proposed, a specific budget fund could also be set up where, in one place, all funds used in the crisis would be recorded and monitored. You didn't accept this, you didn't accept the opposition, if we're honest, but these are things that at times help things run as they should. That there are no temptations, because, of course, at such times, there are always economicists of this kind, not the real ones, but who feel their economic opportunity. And I'm a long way from that, and I find it very repulsive that people who worked and worked at that time are called criminals, thieves who want to lynch them, etc. No, no, no. I do not agree with this and I am always consistent in this House. I don't want people being accused like that on purpose without evidence. On the other hand, I am sure, even in view of the role I now have as a member of the opposition, that things need to be clarified and that they need to be determined what happened at the time. Because something is a mistake, something is an abuse, something is, I don't know, a loophole in marriage, but something is a crime and it's different things that we sometimes mix here. And as I say, I am sure that most people are well-intentioned, with good intentions, for the good of the state and the citizens, but one pile is one thing that requires an answer. Let's say that there were so many different kinds of information about the number of respirators. Are we really a country that has not been able to step together at some critical moment, whether it has been the task of the former or the present government and to determine what the actual situation is? Then let's move on. The fact that it was sometimes also bought that it had to go on, I understand everything if it was such a condition of the one who offered the goods that were not there at the time, but that condition had to be accepted. I do not understand, however, that one pile, as has now been shown, of some offers, messages, some entrepreneurs, including other well-intentioned people, who had some leverage to get these things cheaper, remained in the drawer. Then these are things that raise doubts. Or the fact that it was then purchased by the long-term respirators who were assessed by an expert commission as, I don't know, the nine best or whatever. And according to the good old tradition of a group on the right, doctors, etc., who gave these opinions begin to be discredited. In short, things need to be cleared up. What happened, how it happened, after all, it is also right that the Minister has the opportunity to say here today and to respond to all these attacks and accusations that have occurred in the public record some time ago and now he has also had this time to answer us. But here today, of course, we will not come to the bottom, because we are not a court, nor can we be, because we do not have the evidence, because we do not have the evidence such that we all see all the evidence, we wave with one another, but we do not know what their credibility is, etc. And if the coalition thinks that the minister did well, great, let us support him today and thereby assume your political responsibility. You took his responsibility with this, and that's fine with me. But not to resent the opposition, if it plays its part, it is said, to watch over the use of budgetary money, the economic functioning of the government, the fact that there is no abuse, and all that I have said before. So, I will, of course, continue to listen to what the Minister will have to say, but I do not expect us to know anything crazy after all these hours. But let's not forget, there are still parliamentary investigations on this subject, and the law enforcement authorities and the Court of Auditors will do their part and hope, and I want them to know in the end that no one has actually done anything wrong. This is what I want for Minister Restoration and for everyone else, because I think this was the moment in the history of our country, the history of all mankind, because it really wasn't the time for all kinds of toying and abuse and exploitation. So, as I say, I hope and wish that at the end of all these procedures it will be realized that you have all done what is right and that we have done the best we can and, given the circumstances of money, etc., we have been positively going through this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, he'll get the word "magic" after him. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Today the world is really wrong in Slovenia, not only do Roma hunt down policemen who rob banks, but those who are responsible for this personally, objectively and subjectively, that Slovenia was not prepared three months ago for the upcoming pandemic, today question all those who then resolved what to save. This, ladies and gentlemen, is really the wrong world. What were we witnessing in January, February, when things could still be bought at normal prices when things were still available? At that time, Prime Minister Marjan Sarec, when I reminded him of my question, literally made a fool of himself. I can serve you with quotes, I can serve you with answers, because it was also written questions addressed to the Government. Even more so, on January 26th, if memory doesn't deceive me because of the date, but I think it was January 26th, I asked the question why Europe and Slovenia don't limit transport, the right arrivals from China, and in this way they prevent an excessive danger, I have never received an answer from Europe. I'm not the European Member. If maybe it was something different, because we should have an answer. In Slovenia the answer came in such a way that it was better not to quote it. In Slovenia, during that period, buses were used as a mockery of all common sense by tourists from Vuhan, who was the center of the pandemic in China. But this was really the situation in Slovenia. And then the last stash of masks, those that were available in companies, was sent to China to help people take pictures with them. They left behind empty warehouses and 26 operational empty airbags. What does that mean? We could look in Bergamo, Italy, Spain, and where doctors were then pushed into the role of giving it a chance to breathe and survive, we can't give it to it. And a man died. And you have put the whole of Slovenia before such a dilemma with your irresponsibility, especially medical personnel and all the weak groups who have been particularly exposed to the virus. Instead of walking around for the next ten years with that equipment that the Americans call "brown paper bag" or domestically with a paper bag on your head, because you should be so ashamed of yourself and you escaped just before the actual danger began, with Mr. Marjan Sarca's resignation, you are now putting in interpellations. Interpellation because it was getting rid of what was left to be saved. And you have double criteria for that. I've been listening all day to who was on the phone, who wasn't on the phone. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Židan also telephoned for Mr Czech Republic, and we were able to read about this in some media. As far as I know, none of this was denied. And now I'm just waiting for all the proponents of this interpretation to run, and they're gonna say it, but he did it with the best of intentions. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone, I believe that they were working together at the time to have the best intentions. They were doing what they could to save themselves. And in a normal democratic state, the opposition is going through at least so much of a political culture that for the first hundred days it leaves the government to take a breath and that it can work normally. Especially if you take responsibility under conditions such as those of the coalition under the leadership of the SDS or the government under the leadership of John Janša. Of course, we didn't have those hundred days, Ma, there wasn't one day, there wasn't a hundred seconds. We've already witnessed two interpretations. The first one, drawn to the hair, is the appearance of how I don't know what was going on when what everyone else was doing was getting rid of what was going on. Those who are currently investing in this interpolation. And on the other hand, we already have another interpretation in these hundred days, so be careful, because some minister, you think, respected the court's legal decision. Not because I'd break it, but because he respected it. Do you even realize the absurdity of what you're doing? This is the opposition we have. And that the measure was full, this same opposition, for weeks now, even in these days and in the end, was also originally intended to do so, encouraging people to mass gatherings, to mass protests, so mass gatherings, even though it is known that this is a risk. Just today, you will not believe, there are also those who are actually quite left-handed, large, central companies, such as Reuters, and I think that they have also been followed by CNN, and some others, though known very left-wing media, have pointed out that in Europe there is a great possibility that this particular, mass gathering, mass protests, will bring about a premature second wave of coronavirus, disease, which will have very severe consequences for the economy and, of course, fatal consequences for those who will be victims of this irresponsible work. And that's really what our opposition is doing. Talk about cooperation, talk about what I'm supposed to do. On the other hand, it goes only and exclusively by logic, worse than it is, better for us, with the hope that people will not notice this game. But I trust in people, I trust in their minds, and I also trust that they will see who wants to help Slovenia, who wants Slovenia to be safe, and who by their irresponsible conduct this Slovenia really threatens and leads where Slovenia does not deserve and where it should never be. That is why, of course, I will not support this interpretation today, but I expect that the opposition will be seriously confronted with its behaviour and in Slovenia, if nothing else, because this, beware, has been published on the Antifa pages, on the Internet, what you go to see, stopped inviting foreign antifa terrorists, to cause unrest here, and bring Slovenia into the wave of violence that has now clapped from the United States, to the United Kingdom and also to Europe. Doing so, of course, goes beyond any borders, not only the opposition action of some political culture, but, look out, also the limits of the law and the borders of the Slovenian Constitution. Nobody has that right.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbič, prepare to be Comrade Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister Restorationšek, both ministers, members of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament, one fine evening. I'm going to try to be very short, very short in this available time, and maybe I'll be a little faster with the word. There has been a lot of talk, at least in the first half of today's debate, at least on the part of the proponents, about political responsibility, then also from other responsibilities, and here I must continue a little by the words of the predecessor, but I cannot avoid the following fact – the political responsibility of the minister, in this case “interpelled”, I think that already by the proponents, we would be aware that this is not a matter of identification at this regular or extraordinary meeting, but simply a procedure through the established parliamentary commission of inquiry and also in this place I will repeat what I am on the Commission for the supervision of public finances, now that they have a good expert in this area, Mr Möderndorfer, to teach who finds the political responsibility of the holders of public powers. As far as responsibility is concerned, economic or whatever, inefficiency is concerned, I will not discuss this, because I believe it is the duty of Members to teach themselves a little, which are the procedures and who is responsible for this. The first half of today's extraordinary meeting, I must admit that it reminds me very much of the progress of the so-called theme on the Commission for the supervision of public finances, where I have made it very clear to the members of the Commission that the course and call of the meeting went in the direction of debate-investigative actions. I do not want to, in particular, because this first half of today's meeting has indeed taken place in the direction of investigating and urging the Minister of Interpellation to respond with specific figures and something else, that I will not also speak the expression of words which are totally inappropriate for this National Assembly. However, today's interpolation literally raises questions, namely, the following, which I will only point out three: Is the interpolation tabled of 4. 5. is that really the case, with regard to time and content, justified and reasoned? In particular, the argument is that the legal basis, or whatever, of the debate is based solely on suspicion and doubt. A few more words about it, as far as I can tell. As a second question: Are the indications of interpolation, for the first time, true, verified, and do they follow the findings of institutions in the Republic of Slovenia that are solely competent to identify such matters? Thirdly: Is the aim of this interpretation clear in advance, meaning to tarnish the reputation of the Minister of Economy and the current Government? Now, I can get an answer to all three questions, or I will get what I have to say with the following statement, namely the so-called lead whistler who said to the media: “I am extremely disappointed with the Prime Minister of the Government who stepped into the defense. That says a lot about him because of his support for Minister Restoration. I expect the matter to end with the collapse of the current government because Slovenia does not deserve it." This is a whistleblower statement regarding the purchase of health protection equipment. There's nothing to add to that. The political definition of achieving the opposition's goal without the Slovenian National Party is said to be an extraordinary election. It is true, however, that this statement makes a clear message that we cannot talk about whistleblower in the proper sense of the word, but in some ways different motives or different circumstances apply. I also need to give this right away, in a way, a statement by the Minister of Inter-Better, which is still necessary to expose himself from this place. His statement is: “Now that we are all breathing more easily, the opposition has arrived [[sign for the end of the debate]] From a safe hiding place where she escaped in the wake of an outbreak of a health crisis. It's easy to be smart today. I would not repeat everything we have done today in the same way, but we were in a situation where human life was at stake." In this context it is also necessary to say about the Government's decision of 27. 2. purchase of health equipment [[sign for the end of the debate]] to be carried out through the Department of Commodity Reserves. His statement by the Minister of Interpretation: “Why the institution and the department I run? Maybe it's because of others. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Maybe there's more time if you report it. Member Ljubo Žnidar has the floor and a colleague of Daniel's must prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, Ministerial Assembly, colleagues and colleagues. Even if there was no session today, the picture is very clear to me. Very clear and very evident, I would say, from the moon you can see that the greatest nightmare of the opposition is the successful work of the government of Janez Janša. It is evident that the opposition’s greatest dissatisfaction was that there were too few deaths under the government of Janez Janša during the epidemic. If we had a picture in Slovenia like it was in Italy and Spain, the opposition would leap for joy because it happened under the government of Janez Janša. And that's your biggest nightmare, because that's not what happened. Today we can be satisfied, proud to this extent and so successfully mastered this epidemic, and very many recognitions from around the world have been given to this successful work. Because interpolation is nothing wrong and it is a completely democratic and, of course, a basic tool for the opposition to use it, but you, as the opposition today's interpolation and of course, also the announced new interpolation, are using it to knowingly spread lies, to knowingly unjustifiable accusations, to knowingly mislead citizens, of course, because everyone is watching it, of course, the media is good at media, and this is not the purpose of the interpolation or you are using it for another purpose, I would call it unfairly, because today you are not coming with concrete facts, with clear examples, but these interpretations are so little on the way, but a little flat-rate. I would say that all of this is served by the opposition alone and solely with one goal, with the goal of authority and how to overthrow the current government in the lowest possible way, only that is a clear goal. Today's interpretation of Minister Restoration is, I would say, a marginal thing, your focus, your point and your goal is very clear and it is the one that I have said, but for you this is not enough, you go even further and serve a lot more, you are deliberately spreading hatred among people in the Republic of Slovenia. Look at these protests, not on your own, very clearly directed, very well run, deliberately and intentionally spread hatred among people in the Republic of Slovenia, but not only that, even so far away, you are threatening right-wing politicians, that everything needs to be killed, even so far as you are going to achieve one goal alone. I think that as soon as possible the citizens will read you very quickly, I think that as soon as you have submitted the next scheduled interpolation. But if I repeat today's subject for a moment. In mid-March, an emergency situation prevailed in the procurement of protective medical equipment. It was more about survival and how to protect people from infection. And look, Europe is the most developed part of the world and in Europe, at the time it was not possible to buy one mask, it was not possible to buy one respirator, it was not possible to buy any medical protective equipment in the most developed part of the world. This is a clear signal that there was an emergency at the time regarding the acquisition of protective medical equipment. And then actually this fight started on the world market for medical equipment and this fight, it wasn't about normal procedures for ordering public or private or any kind of procurement, it was about, I would say, who has more knowledge, who has more money, who has more hope, who has stolen something, and in this fight in which the whole world has gone down, a small Slovenia, which has 2 million inhabitants, three quarters of earthlings, doesn't even know where Slovenia is, and a small Slovenia has gone into this fight. And now you can imagine how it was necessary to fight on this world market, that we were successful here, but we were successful. Well, now I'm going to ask you, how do you value one life? Is this life worth living if the mask is ten cents more expensive or cheaper? No, no, no. Such comparisons are not healthy to go and should not go, and you are here now and now iterating what would have happened if it had been. What if it wasn't? We'd have an Italian or a Spanish script. That's when we'd be happy to kick ass. So, of course, I will not support such imaginary interpretations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Daniel Krivec has the word, and he will receive the word of Franz George. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to ministers and others on the ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues! First, let me say that I will not support this interpolation, but I will not support it for a number of reasons. For the first time, I think that this interpellation is definitely unnecessary, and I am not saying that it is illegal, because, according to the Rules of Procedure and all the other documents that exist in the National Assembly, this is possible, but to some extent it is a little uncomfortable that some rules are not respected which speak of some hundred-day peace for a team that works in the new government. Now, the fact is that this team has done a great deal of work, extremely good work and here goes all the praises to the whole Government, especially to Minister Restovalšk, who has led matters in some way and also on my part all thanks and thanks to him in fact to all those who have been involved in these teams, who have helped in both purchasing and implementing all the measures that have been taken by the ministries of the Government on the basis of a national plan which provides for action in the event of major pandemics and which we have adopted, but which, as it appears, has not been achieved to such an extent that it is indeed appropriate. However, in every way it is difficult to throw some mud at people who, at that point in time, did their best to do what was best for this country, especially for these people, those who in those early days did not follow it in the way that they said we could not do it, you cannot do it, and we cannot do it, because I was not in this role to judge as you did through this interpellation. Those who participated in meetings with health - care professionals and with home staff for older citizens know the pressures and pressures that existed at that time. And what were the actual requirements for protective equipment at all ends and places. I believe that the Minister will present any additional documents that prove this, if necessary, at the following time, or at the same time the Government. Now, there has been a great deal with the speaker of words to support this interpretation, which we all expected from previous discussions already on the parental committees, where much has been done with polyinformation, was to present specific documents only with cuts, and a person would expect this to be done in the event of interpretation in the manner that is necessary. You've told us many times that interpolation is empty, puffs, without concrete evidence, without concrete things, but the one we've been listening to today is still very, very large or a long approximation of what we used to invest and defend. We have not heard any specific things today. Moreover, the applicant has largely concluded on these lists that he is concluding on certain matters, but not proving or proposing and identifying them. Most of the time, he said he was reaching conclusions. Now, based on the conclusion, interpellation is not working, interpellation is done when the Minister violates specific legislation when the Minister violates the Constitution or anything else. None of these things were done by the minister. As I said, those who have never been in extraordinary situations in their lives cannot assess what happens at such times, and I also allow the possibility that some thing has happened past some rules of the game, but the minister and the entire government team have made it clear that if anything was wrong or illegal in these procedures or someone has done something in their own way, they will be responsible for it. However, we cannot generally generalize and accuse everyone who has cooperated in this of being thieves, of stealing without any serious arguments. And here the level of opposition for my taste has fallen very heavily on the exam. And this has been happening for quite some time now on all the committees, and I think the citizens have been getting tired of this accusation without any serious evidence. And it may also be time for one of those who are on the wallpaper all the time to press charges for some things that were inappropriate. As I said, those who have never been in a situation where there is a need to react at some point, regardless of the fact that in peacetime this is not usually a problem and we have many instruments, both legal and resource-based, do not know what it means to act in some extraordinary situations, when you have pressure from all sides in the area that should help you, I am talking about individual ministerial departments, but the thing is being teamed up and the team sitting there, but whether it is, I would say, qualified or not, does not want to participate. If you remember, at the beginning of your term, you also talked a lot about the fact that officials don't work very well in individual departments. And probably no government team that sits down has 100% of the “support” at the first moment, and things need to be organised so that things start to go in the right direction. And in the event of an emergency, it is only necessary to find all the possibilities to get things done even if they were taken away in some other way at a normal time. And it is hard to imagine that now they would sit so calmly if they had, I would say, the result of this struggle with this pandemic is significantly worse, probably at that moment they would be sitting in this hall, and the opposition would be chanting all the time, why Minister Restorationšek did not get more equipment, why it was not realized, second, third and fourth. Now that the matter has gone very well through, very effectively, I would say, saved or completed this first stage of infection, but some are very clever about what should be done and how certain things should be done. And without one concrete proof. I hope that someone has been in some previous position, that some thing had to be signed, and who knows what kind of thing is being prepared, and who is responsible for what. I hope you've been in such a position, and you know exactly how documents are made, and since there's no sign of the minister anywhere, you have to ask yourself if someone in some office is a lawyer, and they say everything is fine, and then at some point they say that everything is wrong again, I wonder if it's a lawyer. Why, though, is he there at that service to remember after three months that what he had signed in the past had gone wrong? So I absolutely don't support this interpretation. I think it is unnecessary and that we have to deal with some more important things in this national assembly, as well as with the Government. I am aware, however, that this is the right of the opposition and to some extent I am glad that there have been no serious attacks on the Minister today and that the debate has been calmed to some extent, except for some exceptions which I do not wish to mention. Once again, thank the Minister and his team, everyone in the government, for taking the matter away just like they did. Those institutions, which have to investigate things, should explore them and hope that at that time we will have so much power for all to admit or be right, but that those who have been wrong and who have maligned the good name will be able to apologize, even though we have not seen it many times.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Franz Jurša has the word, and he will receive the word of Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u194	Good evening! Thank you for your word, Vice President. It's almost 23. In this national assembly, we also have people representing the older generation. And I think that in the future we should start thinking about what one of the Members has already said that we would somehow narrow this debate down and put it in the right time of day. What we're doing right now, I don't think it's a normal thing. Minister Restoring, I will not support the interpolation, because this is no longer a mask, it is no longer a caregiver, it is an infected person, it is a dead person. This is about political issues. That one political option actually shakes the power of another political option. Mr. Marjan Sarec is fine, sir. But he made one wrong political decision. He jumped into an empty pool, not to say on his head, but he jumped into an empty pool. There were no early elections and, of course, no new government was set up to be headed by the President of LMŠ. All of this just happened differently. First, SMCs were offered to have their Members run on their lists. It didn't work out. They didn't make a deal. Desus also escaped them. The empty political space that was created then skillfully took over the old political cat Janez Janša and formed a new government or new coalition. [[loop for the end of the debate]] This government, whether you want it or not, you have to admit that in this Covid-19 crisis, it has done its job well. Of course, they were in front of empty warehouses. The protective equipment wasn't enough and the race actually started, under the nods, for this equipment. [[sign for the end of the debate]] But this equipment on the market wasn't enough. They were forced to purchase it at a slightly higher price, of course. Here's what I'm gonna say. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u195	Thank you very much. It's not my fault. Joseph Horvat has the word, and after him she will receive the word of Violet Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. Dear interpellationers, look, this is part of a government team that hoped, who knew who was not afraid and did what was right at the time of the epidemic. At home, you won't read it anywhere or anywhere. A brother also needs to look at the analysis of how individual governments have dealt with the Covid-19 epidemic. Colleagues of proposers and co-workers of the proposer. Today we listen and watch the show, Generals after the battle. Today you know everything, 12 you didn't know anything, 27 January you didn't know anything or even less, you didn't want to know or you were worried. You squeezed your tail between your legs and you walked away. That's how we saw it, and that's how the Slovenian public saw it. Many support us today, all day long I receive many emails, messages, in support. This is the quiet majority you will not see among the “policemen”. You won't see them there. You've been talking about numbers all day. How much did we have because you were asking, I guess, health institutes, hospitals, UKCs to tell you how many "instructors" they have, or that they had, I don't know, on day 13. 3. What are you asking them? You were in power. That's what you should know. That's an awkward question. Whoever's in power needs to know everything and more. But, because I listened to the debates in the office, the number of the proponents he repeated many times, but, yes, of course, that the hospitals and UKCs and other health institutes have respirators and had them before the epidemic. But I didn't notice, maybe you asked a misleading question - how many respirators do you have for Covid-19's disease? - in my humble opinion, it should be a question and we should talk about it. About that, ladies and gentlemen. Now you're saying that we've had too much and so on and that now that there's been uneconomic behavior and so on. Really, real generals after battle. Hat down, really. And colleagues and colleagues, we've taken this discussion too far in the last two months. The state of the spirit in this country is at the bottom. It's never been lower in the last 30 years since we've had our own country. He wasn't there. The culture of death is on the march. Protests are all over the world, legitimate. True, I haven't seen any banners in America, either, probably not in Venezuela, to be a death call. Death. Not granite cubes, because anyway, matter is dead, calling for death. And once upon a time, a colleague of Jurš or, perhaps even today, said that the problem was that the rhetoric of the National Assembly was moving to the streets. So politics is responsible for this state of the spirit, and, uh, we've heard a lot of shame. We've heard a lot about it in the last two months that we're criminals. Yes, that our families are also part of criminal groups, but do you have any idea what you're articulating? Yeah, it's flying after all of you now. I'm sorry you didn't all say that. I admit it, very loudly. What's he like? And these are crimes. I can also show that I got a few of the lawyers' houses offer to defend me in the pro bono court. I'm not doing this. I'm not going to sue my fellow Member. I can't reach that far, I can't reach that low. And the question is how the rule of law would respond. But that's enough, really, really, please, let's finish this story today and move on. I can't wait for the Court of Auditors to make a thorough report, I know that it is an investigation, because it is not just one, thorough, yes, the Court of Auditors must review the cost-effectiveness of the spending of the taxpayer's money, so we set it up, including the other, of course, other institutions. But politics can't, the National Assembly can't even rise above a court, so I said it, it sounds hard, it's out-of-court political killings. But my colleague Zdravko or Minister Zdravko, we have known him for a long time, even as an opposition Member, I supported him on “hearing”, not just once, because he is obviously a good Minister for Economic Development and Technology, which Mr. Marjan Sarec sometimes understood. And there's something else: colleagues and colleagues, proponents and proponents. What has happened on the boards in recent days, on your part, when you have embarrassed and accused even the medical profession. I didn't make that up. Slovenian Medical Society, look, there was a press conference yesterday. For what reasons? It says, it says, it says, it's a message to the public. But I also have a video, and one good hour went by the press. In the media, the current debate on the health treatment of some residents in the homes of older citizens during the Covid-19 pandemic in Slovenia encouraged us to place a point on the agenda of the Main Professional Council in the Slovenian Medical Society on the work of colleagues during the pandemic in the DSOs. 6th and a summary, as it was said, were presented at a press conference. Otherwise, I want all of us never to use, seek medical or medical services from today. What has happened, and now tomorrow we will go to the doctors, these same ones who have to come forward, who defend themselves and write, will be signed under the title of the Unresponsibility List of the Eternal Politics of Kebra. Look, it's about the doctors who burned down, who were, as I said in the introduction, like the young doctor in the first battle lines. And so to criticise everything on the average, we can politically argue, because we are political competitors, normal, but please, also politics must enjoy the dignity, dignity of man. And not just with your finger, criminals in power, criminals, criminal associations, thieves, you steal and so on. This is only possible in Slovenia. I know it's pain, I know it's pain, that you're overnight, you didn't even know, now you barely realize that you've given up power. We didn't throw you out of power, we didn't, we supported your rare suggestions, look at the vote. And now there's such hatred. It is okay to interpolate, but also at interpolation it is possible to maintain cultural parliamentary dialogue. Once again, we will defend Minister Zdravek Restovalska today and wish him much health. From now on, he will have thicker skin, and I believe that the time has finally come for us to deal with the projects for which we have committed ourselves in the coalition contract. It is no secret, we discussed them yesterday at Brdo pri Kranj and decided to move forward, to implement projects from which people will have something or in other words will be easier and better and better living, and that is our goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u197	Thank you very much. As the final debater, Mrs Violeta Tomić will be given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Now after 14 hours of discussion, it's very hard to be original, but I'll try. What we are witnessing today at this interpolation is the complete lack of self-criticism of this government and the complete absence of a minimum understanding of democratic processes. Now, when you say to investigate the institutes, if something was wrong and somehow you allow something to happen to happen, you've preemptively led all these institutions from the police, the NPU, attacking all the media that are critical, attacking the courts that might have found something, attacking the opposition, attacking doctors, experts, the police, you've changed everything. How can we hope for some basic democratic objective standard in the investigation? But we heard a lot of moralization where you were, and you squeezed your legs, and you walked. We are the legislative branch of power here, and we are also like the opposition to say something in our opinion and, in the public's opinion, it did not go as well. It is clear that while one fifth of Slovenia landed at the social bottom, it is not appropriate and delicious that we witnessed these massive commissions and lie that it is not possible to obtain equipment directly from manufacturers, it was a great lie. And we are witnessing a great deal of lies, that Minister Restoration said that he had no idea and that for the first time he heard that the government had risen and ministers were paying at a time when others had to tighten their belts, it was a lie and he told the press twice in one day, "I learned that from you." Then he lied about the fact that the Republic of Slovenia or the department of supply reserves could not carry out direct financial transactions and could only deal with Slovenian suppliers. That's not true. In addition to the fact that most Chinese companies require a 100 % advance payment, it was not true and required a 100 % advance for Bitenac. Now, as far as I'm concerned, I, who comes from culture and art, should have been flying for me by now, five years ago, when he cried out "who doesn't do it" when he met the culturers. That was enough reason for me to leave. When Ksevt took over in Vitanj, the result was the destruction of public cultural heritage, the destruction of the art of Slovenian artists, the illegal confiscation of books and as we read in the Reporter crypto millionaires were doing their own cooperation there. In short, they've spent a million euros in three years, we're reading in the Reporter, and don't say it's a left-wing newspaper. When he made 100 hectares of first-class agricultural land in Magna in order to make poorly paid jobs inside the car paint shop and make opponents of this project always with eco-terrorists. When he said we don't have to explain anything to the public, in style what they can do to us. In short, I don't mean to say that I understand that someone is wrong or that they don't know anything, but when someone is arrogant, then my tolerance fails. When he explained that the mask would be completely useful if we swap rubbers, red rubbers with whites, you know, but I thought he really made fun of citizens and citizens. Now, empty warehouses. I don't know, maybe they weren't, but Mr. Restoring is the third time I've been in this House. He was Minister in Cerarjev Vlada, Sharcheva Vlada and now in Janševa Vlada. If he really saw the warehouses were empty, then share that responsibility. I think we are dealing with the wrong myths and therefore this is tolerated, only in Slovenia can the government not withdraw from such disclosures, but no, we believe that King Matjaž is sleeping under Peco, and when he wakes up, he will establish the Kingdom of Norse and save the Slovenian people. On the other hand, we have a Vice-President of the Government, who is apparently following Martin Krpan, who smuggles salt and no law comes to life, but comes to Vienna and cuts a hundred-year-old lipo. In short, they were all doing business and raving to some of their commission suppliers, far from saving the Slovenians. When we defeated COVID, we defeated him with self-discipline and with the conscientious work of medical personnel, who are also discrediting him if he does not speak as you would like. When Dr. Knafley revealed that the respirators were inappropriate, he was immediately the target of your attack. And Ivan Gale. I believe you don't believe that Gale is guilty and not resting. I believe you don't believe that without being revealed in Target, everything would be fine with this acquisition. And I believe you do not believe that the All-Slovenian rise of cyclists is led by the invisible hand of an organized Left. In short, I believe you know everything wasn't okay. The difference between us and you is how far you are able to defend your man because of some of your private partisan interests. And in that, you know, there's a big problem. The media are not your enemies, nor are ours, but they are a mirror of politics, a critical mirror, except, of course, in a dictatorship where, to my great sadness, we are obviously wooding. And my predecessor said that the state of the spirit was happening, that it was at the bottom. I can't agree more than I agree, you know, but fish always stinks on their heads. The culture of death is on the march. Really? To whom or to what, once again, Slovenian. To whom, a man of ideology. An ideology that compares journalists with prostitutes, an ideology that attacks anything other than thinking, an ideology that doesn't respect democracy. And you know, you're talking about death. I also received white powder at home, and I did not send it to anyone, but I believe that it is necessary to declare death to any ideology that is against man and not men. Here's our difference. The budget was privatised and public funds went into private pockets. And you think that's okay. You brag about how you saved lives. You were saving your private pockets. The opposition was prevented from doing whatever it takes to carry out its democratic duty, because you immediately changed your control and you can do whatever you want. You're talking about cooperation, which is totally funny, because we were offering cooperation, we were making amendments. Nothing. You attack everyone, you attack an independent judiciary, criminals, professional staff, doctors, and then you play the victim. It's amazing what manipulation we've witnessed. And you're always innocent, nothing to blame, but the terrible opposition allows you to be criticized. Yes, the head of the SMC delegation said that she quoted me when I said "everyone in the other is looking at himself". True, everyone in each other is looking at themselves, and that is why I see in you people who have heard us, who are yet to be understood and who do not believe everything they tell you. I also see customers who have been kidnapped, because three parties who support the government of Janez Janša would never do so if they had the lead in the first place. Ludmila Novak said that she would never go to the government of a extremist like Janez Janša — replaced by Tonin. Miro Cerar was elected under cover of ethics and morality, but everything else and everything else turned out to be more than that — the client was taken over by a restman who had absolutely no problem with it. And they also changed their colors and leadership to third supporters of the coalition, you know, which are not entirely covered today by 5%. Maybe the next election will go straight to John Janša's list. You may be elected in this case, but believe me, people are going to need answers. People want to know where he sang the taxpayer's money. And by subjugating the media to destroy public RTV, it will not help you, because, you know, people in Slovenia have never lived in a dictatorship and for an iron curtain where you would like to get us. And we have always been a proud and rebellious spirit, and this is what has kept us through the centuries and will keep us this time. Thank you so much. I know you're looking forward to this end of my speech.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Before we go to the conclusion of the debate, we have another procedural proposal from Mr Jelinčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u200	Thank you very much. It's about correcting our Aunt Violet's statement. By the way, the Krapan didn't smuggle salt, but he was smuggling English salt. This is the solitaire from which it is used for the manufacture of powder. I think that's a very historical and exact statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u201	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. For this contribution, I will not even remind you that this was not a procedural proposal. Thank you. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will give the floor to Mr Minister and the proposer. First of all, Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, receives the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u202	Dear President, Members, Members of Parliament. Dear colleagues, fellow ministers, secretaries of state. Thank you for your word. We started this meeting in the morning, hoping that we would discuss the acquisitions of protective equipment in a balanced and factual manner. Today we see that we hope for nothing. For 14 hours, we've been going around the same stories. I've been telling you about what we've been doing, giving you numbers and official information. I tried to remind you of what happened especially between March 14th and April 10th, when the market for protective equipment was turned upside down and it was hard to get anything on it. You've been returning me with one and the same, I'll say, untruths. I've tried, responded to the repetitive signs, and again you're like hamsters chasing their bikes forever. So let me briefly summarize some of the facts that I ask you to remember, because it will be so much easier for us. The purchases of protective equipment, which Slovenia carried out during the epidemic, were the most demanding purchases of such equipment at once in the history of Slovenia. We flew them through the night quickly, literally, and just as the possibilities allowed. I'm sure they'd be treated differently if we were expected to have more protective equipment in hospitals and other health care institutions at the time of the outbreak. Why there was virtually nothing in the middle of March, the Slovenian public should explain those who were also responsible for them. I'm sorry, it's not me. Because this equipment was not available because we urgently needed it, because it could no longer be obtained under normal or normal conditions, we went to work in a way that was optimal at the time and probably the only possible. We've centralized the acquisitions. We've organized them by bringing together the forces of several reactors. The department of supply reserves, which was the final point of purchase in this story, was not alone. Nobody in their right mind would let that happen. All the groups set up were set up to facilitate the work of the institution. To argue otherwise is manipulation. No contract was concluded under the table, no deal was made to take advantage of the difficult situation in which the country was. I've been a minister myself for six years in a third government. I know who I'm responsible for my job. This isn't every time a government chief, these are our citizens. Anyone who knows me a little knows that I'm not naive in business and that I can recognize dangers. I recognized them when I was shopping with protective equipment. I wanted to prevent scenarios as we have seen them in many other countries, and not only in southern Europe, as Hot previously surfaced. That's why I was so worked up, so I was loud, so I was running to work. If it wasn't for this one, I could have all the right to be hanged on a pranger today. Because none of what you're saying is true, it would be fair now to slowly shut down the engines of your attack on me. For the record, I don't take personally what you're telling me, although it's true that it's not nice to hear it. But I think it's a shame that all the energy we've spent here today wouldn't be spent on anything more fruitful. And go back to the acquisitions. The direct purchases that some would like to see were in March and April a high-risk work that we could not even accept in our country. If anyone thinks that masks, ventilators, or ventilators were possible, that I would not be criticized, and other equipment on some simple path is seriously wrong. Yeah, there was a simple way to get the money bags and go to China for the edge. Is that what you want? Yes, even so some countries have purchased protective equipment. Would you like to be part of a country like that? Be my guest, there'll probably be another opportunity. All contracts for the purchase of this equipment shall be public and transparent. There's no secrets in them, no small print. Today there was also a lot of talk about why the country did not buy this equipment. Why did she not accept this offer? Why didn't she go to mediation with the help of some institutions? I said several times, we had thousands of offers on the table, but only a handful of them were viable. I am sorry, too, that we have not been able to cooperate with some highly respected companies and institutions. But I didn't make that decision myself, that was decided by another factor, that's the time of delivery you're forgetting. In critical days, Slovenia was greatly assisted by many donors, such as Slovenian citizens, businesses and countries. I'm more grateful to everyone than you think. Some of them still do not want to be publicly exposed today because they do not want the shadow of the media lynx to fall on them. This says a lot about the climate in our country and about the attitude of the public to everything that has been done in the last three months. And once again, Slovenia has committed 62 million euros, not 200, not 180 and not 120, for the purchase of protective equipment between 14 March and today. I'm gonna say it again because I've been listening to lies all day. It has earmarked €62 million. If we can remember at least this from this time of the meeting, we have all taken a step toward normal. It is not appropriate for the state to watch over the use of public finances, but for all those involved in the acquisition of protective equipment to be declared criminals, thieves and enemies of the state. The structure that was built with extensive media support is no longer beneficial to anyone, I say so responsibly. Today you're constantly attacking me with your eyes, if I don't know how many ventilators we had in the middle of March in the country. I was relying on the information I received from the competent ministry. And I believe this information, and I also believe the numbers that you've given me, you've only silenced that these fans were suitable, of course, for the treatment of Covida-19. I don't have people installed in all kinds of institutions who would put data on me and put confidential documents under my desk. Today, there have also been many such documents in this Chamber, and I do not know if they were all obtained in a manner that is appropriate for a state governed. And I don't know if there's been any manipulation, because there's no evidence of anything that you've so strongly represented here in the National Assembly. Those who feel at home on ideological battlefields have the right to do so, but now is not the time for ideology, but for good ideas about how to accelerate Slovenia's development rhythm. I'm opening the door of my office for them. For tonight, thank you all for rejecting the proposal for my interpretation, and thank you very much to all those who devoted much of your time, knowledge, will and nerves to supplying Slovenia with protective equipment during the epidemic. It wasn't easy, we know who we were on your side, from the street this effort may seem insignificant and irrelevant, but it shouldn't spoil your feeling that you did your job as you would for your country always do the best you could. And let me conclude with a thought that sums up the words of the great British statesman Winston Churchill, who says: “The pessimist sees the problem at every opportunity and the optimist sees the opportunity in every problem.” The problem called the epidemic would not have been solved if you had dealt with it the way the signatories of the proposal for my interpolation did. Everything I've done, you declare crime and every word of sin. Piccolo's precisely dissecting moves that have saved us a lot of victims, damage and pain. You don't hear the explanations, you don't recognize the arguments. If we were to face this challenge in such a destructive way, it would be very bad for all of us today, but what was, was, is the worst for us today, and that is the most important thing. Your Honor, because of the structure you've created, I will not give up. The responsibility I had as Minister has been fulfilled as required by the Constitution and legislation. Everything I've told you today, I've also explained to the public before, yes, but for every word there are papers and numbers. The lies you're alluding to me, I don't want to, and I can't afford to, even because they don't protect my immunity. Your Honor, for me, the political account on the subject of purchasing protective equipment ends tonight. I know what life really means, it's not a political situation, it's not a power, it's not an influence, it's a privilege to look people in peace of mind. Sooner or later, you will come to that knowledge. Thank you very much and stay healthy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u203	The text is by a representative of the proposer, Robert Pavšič. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Mr. Pashovich, you have the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] Microphone, if you turn it off, yeah. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u204	Thank you very much, chairman. Well, after you hear all these conclusions, you can only say that you threw one month of work into nothing and that no argument was heard, because I don't know, we put on the table specific data, specific clues, specific questions, and answers other than present moralism, there was, in fact, there were, apart from some crumbs that might have escaped you or the answers that answered your thesis that everything was perfect and “excellent” and inconceivable and I don't know what else. Two matters are clearly proven today, at least two which confirm the minister's political responsibility, and this minister today has a name and surname. You've been deceiving until May 25th, about the number of fans. Not the number of fans available, not the number of fans available. From 0, 20, 30, 168, 281, today 453 – to 25 May – and don't tell me you didn't have any data, because that means you didn't talk to your colleagues. On 15 March, the Minister of Health had a meeting with the hospital directors, where they were certainly talking about equipment. On 28 February, the secretary then held a meeting to gather information on how much protective and medical equipment was actually stocked. But you didn't talk or you didn't want to hear it. That's your decision. In short, by May 25, you were operating consciously, with the wrong data, this has been proven. So, you've been deceiving. It wasn't the kind of emergency you wanted to show it to. It's perfectly simple. Is that politically responsible? It will be up to you and your colleagues to vote. Another delusion. Reference to non-existent legislation. Intermediaries are necessary. Well, if you were to say in the middle of March, look, we don't hope to risk state money, we prefer to go through intermediaries, we would probably do that, of course, but, at least, we would be clean, so you've always stressed that we can't do this, that once you've found that we can't do this, because the law not only allows it, but even the European Commission recommends this way of buying, you've decided, no, but now it's too risky. [[…]] This is what we read to you, and we never said that all purchases were bad, wrong. No, far from it. We didn't even say that everyone was involved in this dirty business. The word did not come from our mouth, a criminal. I've only heard this from one mouth, and then it's generalized completely. And then we hear, because constantly repeating mantras, one mask was not on the market, one mask was not on the market. Yeah, it wasn't like there were no foster parents. Same analogy. And now I'm wondering if you're expecting another wave, go ahead with the purchases. Now we need to fill the warehouses. But you? No, you picked the opposite way. You have brought the system back to its previous state – a system that you claim to have been ineffective today, but now that we are preparing for the second wave, we will return as before. Yeah, I mean, now you decide once or now it's better or it's better before. That's not how it works. You were talking about an emergency. Slovenia has not declared an emergency but has declared an epidemic. That's a big difference, a big difference. Were the conditions extraordinary? In a semantic way, yes, it may be, but in law, it certainly isn't. And you've avoided the essential issues. But from what we've heard here today, it's okay that we have all this taped and written down, I can conclude, I'll tell you. Apparently, you have a personal connection to a company I've worked on well, Geneplanet. You knew the company would get a guarantee. You knew this company would get a job. You knew that 110 of these drug addicts that this country didn't buy sold to Hungary. And you knew that the price of selling to Hungary was 49,000 euros. You knew quite a few things that belong in the field of business secrets. That means you've been communicating with them. And when you say "no contract was under the table," I can't believe you, if you have this information. I can't believe you, because by March 16, at least you knew that this company was chosen under the table with your blessing and the blessing of someone else to carry out the state business. You didn't deny it, you didn't confirm it. Or at least you confirmed that you even stormed at the embassy. How many other companies have you been hurrying about with diplomacy? Is Mr. Logar here? Yes, it is. For how many other companies has this government stormed with diplomacy to make purchases of protective equipment except for this company? Where are these 20 drug addicts that have been reported? It just blew up. Of course there are assumptions about margins. You probably know them if you know so many business secrets, you also know how much margin there was in this business, or the difference in price, that you won't say that I'm using the wrong economic terms. You know what the price difference was. But where did that price difference go? I don't know. And then even then, because it gets a little funny, they sold it to Hungary and to the country. Then we can continue to manipulate it now, and I won't because it's not decent. It wouldn't be fair for others to investigate. But we've proven two things to you. Two times as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Government, confirmed by this Parliament, you have been deceived. Conscientious. Not only this Parliament, but this is enough for political responsibility, you have deceived the entire Slovenian public. And now hiding behind this "we had the most demanding purchases", of course you had them, none of them are obvious to you. You made them quick. Why? In some cases, you have been in a crazy hurry before you set up an interdepartmental working group, making these purchases and hurching for the signature of specific contracts with specific companies for specific goods. As they were able to do. Yeah. The possibilities that you created yourself and in the environment that you created yourself, with the nonexistent legal basis, with the wrong data, the goal justifies the means, obviously. We bought everything at all costs. And now it turns out you didn't have to be hard, loud, and push for work. I'm great. Great. But that you had involved some other people, and that then because of such procedures, screaming, threats, you had to go on sick leave because of burnout. Yeah, I believe him in this. You can laugh, it's like that if or not, you've been laughing at me all day, laughing at me. I don't know. I'm going. I'm probably going to your liver. Obviously. It's not, I don't have a problem with that, you know. Direct purchases were risky work, you said. They were not risky work for Germany, they were not risky work for Croatia, they were not risky work for Europe as a whole, but for Slovenia as a whole, and Bosnia, and he went to Bosnia, you know, where the minister went, a red-headed robot, immediately into custody. Yeah. You've been saying different things all along. I'm not saying you have to go to jail far from this, but you've been deceiving in two cases, and that's proven. You have not denied this, you have deceived about the number of fans and thus justified the necessity and have deceived the legal basis for the introduction of Slovenian intermediaries or the prevention of direct state purchases. And we've heard a few more readings today that everyone is flying at you, Minister. No, no, no. I've already stressed seven or eight times in my opening speech that it was more people. At least four of these governments who needed to know a little more about these matters than others do. And yes, among these people is the Prime Minister of the Government, and he must have known. Because I doubt the Prime Minister knows what his ministers are doing. That would be a little strange, especially this Prime Minister, who knows exactly what his ministers are doing, and we have come to this situation today. And I can see that the ministerial council is having a crazy time, don't you think? I hope the camera shows you now, too? Today there has been so much laughter in this House, but we are talking about public funds, we are talking about the health and safety of citizens and health workers. Be funny. I'm not. I know what the result of today's interpolation will be. And yes, it would hurt my heart, too, to defend me with such arguments. If I told you two years ago that the SDS is going to make you angry, frantic with New Slovenia, with the greatest thunderbolts and the best speakers, defending what they would say to me, whether I fell on my head. Today it's completely normal for you. There's a lot to see. There's a lot of things you don't want to see, especially you don't want to see. And we see and we know. We organize protests, okay, but now you've really fallen on your head, you're triggering these protests with your action, with your way of communicating and with your constant ideological division. We didn't talk about ideology today. You started exposing it all the time. Well, let's face it, World War II is over. But it suits you that there are extraordinary situations and that we are constantly divided into good and bad, black and white, blue and red, green, I don't know what else. And that kind of attitude actually shows the state of the spirit of this institution. We've tried with arguments, we've presented them to you, and you've returned with empty blisters, just as we've been used to so far. Good luck to you too, Mr Minister. Because no one can win this by voting in this assembly. You can have it or you can't. But I can do 13 more minutes, yeah, I'm saying, if you want, you know, yeah, because now it's gonna be a time-sharing. Mr Minister, all is well in your further political or business path. And I hope that once and for all you will answer these questions, which I have now asked in the end, as well. Whether this contract was concluded under the table or not, you probably won't, but the price difference was huge. And it's only on one job. But what would happen if we looked at it so accurately and if we could get information on other business, I don't know. The damage is enormous, both political and material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u205	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I can see that interest is in the debate, so I'm going through the list. Here's the list. Two minutes. Thirty debates. The first one has the word of a colleague of Mojca the Boxer. Don't you? Two minutes 30. Colleague Boxer or not? You don't want to? She's a magician's colleague. Carmen Furman? Mate Matjaž, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u206	I understand myself, the President, all these techniques, but please. It's midnight. What we were going to say, we told each other. I suggest... Wait a minute. Now, I suggest that everyone who pressed this button at midnight wants to say that all of a sudden you say that you won't say that we won't lose another 15 minutes. President, put some in your hands. I mean, we're not. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u207	Unfortunately, the procedure is that we have to get this thing to the end. Now I propose that this, the cancellations take place. We'll sort it out quickly. But you will help me if you answer which one you really want to discuss is 2 minutes 30. Just my friend Verbich and my buddy Duck. The first one has the word of his colleague Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u208	Thank you very much, President. Perhaps to the disappointment of my colleague Han, I was seriously pressured because I wanted to discuss more. Look, no offense. Look, President, just a minute. My time is running out, and it makes it impossible for me to have a normal discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u209	Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u210	I guess I have a right to say what I'd like to say about this matter. And thank you so much for the opportunity. In my debate, I wanted to say two more words and there is a need to point out again. With regard to the decision of the Government to take effect from 27. 2. 2020 the purchase of health equipment through the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Freight Reserves has been quite controversial debates by Members of Parliament on today's interpretation. It is therefore right for me to make a statement by the Minister who has been interviewed on this very decision of the Government, and I would like to ask that you pay attention to his statement. And it's this one: why is it a department and a department that I run? Perhaps it was because there were no other heroes who would have hoped to take on this difficult, ungrateful but urgent task. And that was at a time when the President of the Government was resigning and when the Government did not have full authority. I hope this is a very important message, especially to the Minister of Economy, regarding his activities. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Because I still have a little time on the responsibility of Minister Zdravek Restoration in this interpretation. Who in the Republic of Slovenia is responsible and responsible for such a determination of the inequities of public finances related to the so-called procurement. It is clear from today's debate and the discussions of the parent committees that this is noted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances of the National Assembly [[sign for the end of the debate]] the undersigned Members of this interpolation, perhaps Members such as Mr Kordish and Mr Pavšič. Personally, I stand firm. [[turn off microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u211	There's a colleague's word, just a minute. Now, colleague Tomić, you want a word as well. My friend Duck has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u212	Thank you for your words, I don't know if you know, Churchill lost his election after the war, and I sincerely hope this happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u213	My colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u214	Thank you very much, I really need to respond, because Minister Restoration reads it, they wrote you this last speech well, but you read it badly. Even though they applauded you from every angle and the person almost feels like he's in the theater. As far as I'm concerned, they would have stepped down for me after saying, "We didn't go to the theater, we did serious work." That's what you call a primitive unworthy attitude towards all the workers in the culture. The culturers are working. And how they do it, and it's a very useful job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u215	Thank you very much. My friend Pawnee as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u216	If, as a proposalr, I'm the last one, yes, we're going to stop all of this, and instead of explaining my voice, I'm going to use those minutes. It is clear how we will vote because we have also proposed this interpretation. We have clearly proved at least two cases, and this has been proved numerically, so empirically, you have deceived in two cases, Mr. Minister, and deceived the entire Government with you. And maybe it would make sense to extend today's interpolation. You cheated as a minister, and you cheated as a government on the number and eligibility of purchases. And you cheated with a legal basis to establish a brokerage purchase instead of direct state purchases. And that is why deception as a public official is, of course, politically responsible, at least for that. And so secondly, if we leave all the other conspiracy theories as you would probably mark them, on the side, we can't squeeze any other than a vote for, you've cheated at least twice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate on interpolation and moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Interpellation candidates propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision after the discussion: »The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, expresses its distrust of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počivalšku and discharges him from office. His office as Minister is hereby terminated. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Comrade Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, chairman. In Levika, we will interpellate against Minister Restovalska and we will support her for three reasons. For starters, the decision to purchase through intermediaries was a deliberate deliberate decision, because through direct purchases and through interstate arrangements it is impossible to earn money. The correct suppliers associated with the coalition parties are certainly not. The second reason is that the Government for her, especially Minister Restoration, after the public had found her with a hand in a glass of marmalade, defended the commissions with lies. They're even full of lies, actually. First of all, how direct purchases are not even possible, how there is no legal basis for them, and then also about specific transactions, such as those related to fans. We know they've been buying golf, not marches, people have been dying, or they'd have waited till Christmas. None of this turned out to be real. The third reason is that all of these ordinary activities underline the inability to organise direct purchases, the inability to lead the country. Let's just remember how they opened museums, how they opened schools, and how they helped the economy. Bad. And the incompetence was reflected also in the government plan, the state budget seized where it could rob it, and the acquisition of protective equipment was just something that marked the first three places of the government. What awaits us all. Not only does he have to leave, Minister Restoration, but the entire government has to leave. After all, the whole government was behind these acquisitions. In a organised crime mission to feed its supply networks before the mandate expires. It is not surprising that the Slovenian public has gone to their feet, it is not surprising that every Friday 20 000 cyclists who oppose corruption are gathering across the country against the attempt of the Hungarian coup against the country, on democracy and ultimately on the police, to protect their crime by also taking the key places of the institutions that are supposed to prosecute crime. And as we know, there is no judge. And the National Assembly remains one of the few hopes for normalising the situation in this country at this moment, interpellation against Minister Restovalska is its key tool at this moment. We want a free future, not a future to follow. [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-11-SDZ8-Izredna-40.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 51. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 51.]] I note that the Minister for Economic Development has not been voted on by non-trust. [[Let's hear it.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 40th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The meeting was closed on 11 June 2020 at 23.54 p.m.
