ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Franz Kramar, Tadeja Šuštar, until 2 p.m., Dr. Franc Trček from 9 am to 11 pm, Vojko Starović, Franc Jurša until 3 pm and Jožef Lenart from 9 am to 12 pm. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, that is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the State's Attorney's Office, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice Mag. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! We have before us a second consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office following a reduced procedure. The proposed amendments align the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the Regulation of the European Union on the European Union Agency for Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters (Eurostat), address the irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors in the implementation and reporting of the readiness and on-call of the State Prosecutor and further strengthen the role of the Head of State Prosecutor in ensuring the effectiveness and uniformity of prosecution. In view of the debate at the Committee's meeting and the explanation of the amendment tabled, I would like to point out that the proposed article does not constitute a departure from the institution of the single law enforcement policy, which is within the competence of the Attorney-General, but rather rather; the proposed regulation means the implementation of what is already defined in the single law enforcement policy on expulsions, which expressly stipulates that continuous monitoring of the use of powers to dismiss criminal charges will be established with a view to simplifying the prosecution's practice and properly directing the police in the event of negative prosecution decisions. Although the Attorney-General is aware of the importance of rejecting criminal charges for legal certainty, unfortunately this monitoring has only been established in one district state prosecutor's office, only as regards particular importance. A legislator who cannot interfere with the independence of the Attorney General may, by means of organisational measures within the Public Prosecutor's Office, provide legal certainty by law, which is his responsibility and duty, in particular when he detects a direct violation of human rights. The professional controls of the Supreme Public Prosecutor from 2011 onwards contain the following findings of infringements of the principle of equality referred to in Article 15 of the Constitution of Slovenia in the case of dismissals of criminal charges: in certain cases foreign nationals have been treated more favourably than nationals of the Republic of Slovenia and thus are not equal; in certain cases, an indictment has been unjustly brought; in many cases, the State Prosecutor has not carried out an assessment of the evidence collected, but has rejected the case, referring to the police's allegations that there is no criminal offence; in many cases, the State Prosecutor has not served the injured person; in many cases, the State Prosecutor has cited as a reason for rejection the wrong reason that the injured person as a subsidiary prosecutor may have misjudged the case. So it is true that rejection does not mean the end of the proceedings and is not really a judicata and that the injured person can take over the persecution. Of course, he can only do so if he is informed that his criminal conviction has been dismissed and that he is not misdirected with the indication of the wrong reason for his rejection. Nor does the proposal constitute a violation of the principle of a stand-alone state prosecutor, otherwise this infringement would already be today, because, in accordance with the current regulation of the Head of State Prosecutors on the basis of a discretionary right, they decide which cases state prosecutors are obliged to submit for review, and these are very large. It is not a de facto decision to take a look at the leader not after the present or not after the proposed arrangement. Independence is guaranteed through a legal remedy that the Attorney General has before the State Prosecutor's Council. We also cannot agree that political pressure would be exerted through the heads of state's prosecutions on the basis of the proposed regulation, as, according to Justice Scoreboard's results over the past years, the state's prosecutor's office is doing well. At the same time, trust is very low due to political influences, which, if we accept both the conclusion and the truth, could mean that these pressures were carried out before the current government takes office and regardless of the current regime proposed. I therefore propose that, instead of telling the public that the heads of state's prosecutors are untrustworthy persons, we, too, should focus today's debate on strengthening the role of the state prosecutor's office and stressing their good functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u4	President, thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Justice Committee is at its 18th session. 9. 2020 was considered by the National Labour Authority to be the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure and was 3. Seven. 2020 published on the website of the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 72nd session. Seven. 2020 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Procedure and the definition of the Ministry of Justice to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Representative of the proposer, Minister of Justice mag. Ms Kozlovič said in a complementary explanation of the articles that the proposed solutions aim to achieve the consistency, legality and enforceability of the EU regulation that changes the organisation of the European Union Agency for Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters (Eurostat) in the Slovenian legal order and the uniform application and interpretation of the legal provisions in practice. The mandate of the national representative and his deputy shall be extended and the appointment procedure shall be redefined. In addition, certain minor irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors in the implementation and recording of the state's readiness and on-calls are being addressed. In order to ensure effective implementation of the uniform law of prosecution and equal treatment of citizens, the draft law strengthens the responsibility of the Head of Public Prosecutions by supplementing the current regulation in Article 169 of the Public Prosecutor's Act with the obligation to submit a draft act in co-signed to the Head of Public Prosecutor's Office always prior to the decision of the State Prosecutor to dismiss an indictment for offences for which a prison sentence has been prescribed in the law for more than three years. The proposer supports the amendment, which, in view of the written comments made by the Legislative and Legal Services, has been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, which, instead of the signature, provides for an examination by the Head of State Prosecutor in cases of dismissal of complaints on the grounds that the alleged offence is not an offence that is being prosecuted under official law or that the suspect has not been duly suspected of having committed the alleged offence. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that they had pointed out in a written legal opinion that there was a lack of definition of the schedule of assignments and the use of annual leave. However, the new institution co-signs the Head of Public Prosecutions to replace the current prior notification of the decision of the State Prosecutor could constitute a discrepancy with Article 135 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia because it constitutes a form of active decision-making by the Head of State Prosecutor and thus a possible impact on the decisions of the individual State Prosecutor in a particular case. The functional independence of the State Prosecutor at systemic level is governed by the State Prosecutor's Act, which refers the status and status of the State Prosecutor to the position of a judge; it also follows from the explanation of the Constitutional Court's decision 2013 that the State Prosecutor is competent to decide, within the framework of the constitutional and legal framework, whether or not he will file a criminal charge and how he will represent it. The proposed amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 24 of the bill proposes a new second paragraph of Article 169 of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which, according to the assessment of the Legislative and Legal Service, constitutes a departure from the law enforcement policy institute under the authority of the Attorney General. In the debate, opposition Members objected to the proposed regulation referred to in Article 24 of the novel and propose to delete it as it affects the independence of state prosecutors. As a result, it is questionable from a constitutional point of view and contrary to established international standards on the situation and functioning of state prosecutors in the exercise of the law enforcement function. The coalition Members supported the proposed legislative amendments, pointed out a large number of dropped complaints, following comments by the Legal and Legal Service and proposing an amendment to Article 24 that the State Prosecutor for Offences for which a prison sentence has been prescribed in the law for more than three years before the decision to dismiss the draft act must be submitted to the Head of State Prosecutor's Office for review. The Committee adopted the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to the 24th Article; however, it did not adopt the amendments of the leftist Group and the SAB, LMŠ, SD. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u6	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary! In Levica, it is always important to note that when we receive a short-term bill, all alarms should be turned on and the matter should be thoroughly reviewed. However, if the law, which has already been in the parliamentary procedure with similar content, is complementary, then these alarms are even more justified. If most of the proposed amendments concern the regulation of the functioning of the Slovenian Representation in Eurojust and the arrangements of the duty stations and the preparation for the work of the state prosecutor's staff, a new proposal for greater supervision by the heads of the state prosecutor's office will be made. The first question is: Why is this change so urgent? Is the regulation really so flawed? The Government's unconvincing argument that a mandatory review of the prosecution's files on crimes that are at risk of at least three years' imprisonment will help to strengthen the uniformity of prosecution is all the more concerned. The reason for such a hurry is, of course, political. It is hidden in the coalition contract of the current government, in Chapter Public Administration and Justice, paragraph 12. This point provides for the amendment of the Public Prosecutor's Act in the direction of ventilation and co-signage of the Prosecutor's Office, and in the case of worse crimes, for groups of prosecutors, in the event of dismissal of criminal charges. This has to be done under a coalition contract. And what's interesting is that this is the only goal that the current coalition has with regard to the functioning of the State Attorney's Office. The data provided by the Ministry of Justice show that different state prosecutors have a different number of dropped criminal charges. We can therefore welcome measures that will contribute to the unifying of practice. But we do not see the proposed solution as a measure to solve this problem, but as an instrument for greater control over the work of state prosecutors. The proposed amendment poses a risk of political pressure on state prosecutors. In view of recent developments and political pressures by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Attorney-General's Office regarding the prosecution of protestors, such dependence on the decision-making of the leader can rightly concern us, as it can have a significant impact on the decisions of state prosecutors which should be of a professional nature. That is why it is all the more important to maintain the autonomy of the Attorney General. Otherwise, it may occur that the State prosecutor will have to initiate proceedings under pressure from the leader, even though he will see compelling reasons for rejecting the criminal charge. And given the number of criminal proceedings brought against visible members of the government coalition, we can be all the more legitimately concerned about how the proposed decisions will be implemented, the amendment of the law will be implemented in practice. In view of the pressures and our information mentioned above, that the main purpose of this law is to limit the autonomy of state prosecutors and to expose them as much as possible to the political pressure of the existing government, whose actors are also occasionally in criminal proceedings, all such systemic solutions must be strongly rejected. The amendment also maintains the possibility of pressure on individual state prosecutors to change their decision. Unfortunately, political pressure on the police and also on the state's prosecution is taking place under the current government. There are many examples of this. On 10 June 2020, such a secret meeting took place, witnessing how the rule of law is being built in Slovenia and how the rule of law, which has not been notified to the public or to the cabinet of President Janez Janša, is respected, is the visit of Attorney General Drag Šketa to the Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša. The Prosecutor-General met with the Prime Minister of the Government immediately after the attack by Prime Minister Janez Janša on the prosecution and two weeks before the instructions of Minister Hojs to the Director-General of Police. The public has not been informed of this meeting. However, in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, they say that they have no authority to interpret the law governing the organisation and work of the police. A week earlier, John Janez Janša asked Shketa to prosecute protestors for writing on banners and threatened him with direct responsibility if there were casualties. This way, the State Prosecutor's Council, under the leadership of Tamara Gregorčič, referred to as an unacceptable political pressure by the highest representative of the executive branch against the Attorney General. It is not known why they did not know about the meeting at the College of the Supreme State Prosecutors, whose members are individual Supreme and Senior Prosecutors; and the body which is key to the field of criminal law; and why the meeting was chaired by Ivan Janez Janša, President of the Government. In view of the pressure and our information that the main purpose of this law is to limit the autonomy of state prosecutors and to expose them as much as possible to the political pressure of the existing government, whose actors are also occasionally in criminal proceedings, all such systemic solutions must be strongly rejected; also, the amendment preserves the possibility of pressure on individual state prosecutors to change their decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, in its name Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Slovenian justice has been facing the issue of increasing the proportion of rejected complaints for a long time. The average rate of rejected complaints increased by more than 56 % between 2005 and 2019. In 2005, it was still 39% and last year it was 61%. Such a high proportion of rejected complaints raises a legitimate question as to whether in our country the competent authorities are prosecuting crimes sufficiently aggressively and consistently. Such information makes it difficult to remain passive, and action is needed. The issue of the high proportion of rejected complaints in New Slovenia has been noted for some time. Among other things, we have addressed this issue in our last election program. With this law, we are now responding to this problem. Every prosecutor is bound by the principle of the legality of prosecution. This means that every prosecutor is obliged to initiate and prosecute any offence that is prosecuted under official responsibility. Therefore, any unjustified decision to dismiss the complaint at the same time constitutes a violation of one of the fundamental principles of criminal procedural law. The amendment's proposal brings in the law the incorporation of a stronger security guard, in order to prevent the country from unwarrantedly departing from the pursuit of worse crimes. The final decision to dismiss an accusation of worse crimes will not be taken by every prosecutor alone. The Head of Public Prosecutions will have to review any such decision and sign the draft discard act by signing it. I estimate that we will be able to contribute to a more unified and consistent prosecution of worse crimes. The fact that the Head of Public Prosecutions will have to be aware of the act of dismissal cannot constitute an intervention in the independence of the Prosecutor. Today, the law regulates the so-called institute of taking over cases in which the head of the District Attorney's Office can take over a case on his own. The novelty is only about strengthening cooperation and more intensive involvement of the Chief of Public Prosecutions in the decision to dismiss more important cases. I believe that the proposed solution will also contribute to a more unified approach to the handling of complaints. The rate of dismissed complaints varies considerably between the District Public Prosecutors' Offices and has ranged between 49% and 68% for several years. The bill also removes irregularities found by the Court of Auditors in the area of preparedness and on-call within the State Prosecutor's Office. The Public Prosecutor's Act is also aligned with the EU Regulation on the provisions governing the national representative in Eurojust. This is an agency dedicated to joint fight against the worst forms of organised crime in the European Union. In view of all of the above, the Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. Mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u10	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutions does not at first sight appear to be problematic. The applicable provisions of the law shall be adapted to comply with the content of the Regulation of the European Union on the European Union Agency for Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters. They shall also address irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors in the implementation and recording of preparedness and on-calls. In the eyes, however, there will be a third part of the changes relating to strengthening the Head of Public Prosecutions in ensuring the effectiveness and uniformity of prosecution. In view of the appearance of any controversial bill, the Government added one article which strongly interferes with the autonomy and autonomy of state prosecutors. Such practices, when the Government is discreetly trying to impose provisions that can be constitutionally disputed, we have been several times in recent months and we have warned them clearly and loudly. The government wanted to do this quietly, as they confirmed the reduced procedure for the consideration of the law. At the SAB stage, we have already found that paragraph 24 of the proposal is quite controversial, and we have pointed out this. This was also confirmed by the Legal and Legal Service. It also addressed the State Prosecutor's Council and the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office and expressed concern about the dispute under this Article. Article 24 of the proposal amending Article 169 of the Law on State Prosecutor's Office adds the Institute of Co-signatures of the Head of State Prosecutor's Office. All of this could not have been so strange and suspicious if the government of John Janša had not suggested it. We all know the position of the ruling party to the state of the Slovenian judiciary. They keep repeating how ineffective the state's attorney's office is, how many complaints they dismiss and so on. Already at the meeting of the Justice Committee, we have tabled an amendment to delete this article, which the coalition has expected to reject and, with its amendment, has softened the Government's first proposal. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also assessed at the adoption of the amendment that the issue of compliance with Article 135 of the Constitution remained. We do not agree to this in the Sab party, so today we will once again support the opposition's joint amendment to delete Article 24. We do not understand how, despite the opposition of the profession, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and other coalition stakeholders can still insist on this change. This is an obvious intervention in the independence of state prosecutors, and such a change can also be contested from a constitutional point of view. Article 3 of the Law on State Prosecutors provides that state prosecutors are independent, are bound by the Constitution, the law and the general principles of international law and ratified international treaties in their work. The State Prosecutor's Office Act therefore lays down the substantive independence of the State Prosecutor's Office, which means that no one shall interfere with their decisions in specific matters. Under the current legislation, the Head of Public Prosecutions has the leverage to enable him to take care of a uniform policy of persecution. In particular, the issue of liability for lawful criminal proceedings will be raised at this point. Such a change confers on the Head of Public Prosecutions the responsibility for the final decision taken. Such a solution will also place a heavy burden on the Head of Public Prosecutions, which will have a negative impact on the duration of the forecasting procedures. In order to be able to assess the correctness of the decision of the State Prosecutor's Office, he will need to examine thoroughly all the material and documentation. In the SAB Group, we oppose such solutions. If the amendment to delete Article 24 at issue is not adopted, we will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. My friend Yuri Nice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! According to a proposal for a law that, while substantively pursuing three more important objectives, the State Prosecutor's Office will have some improvements in its work, and these can make a significant contribution to improving the efficiency of the State Prosecutor's Office. The first of the three substantive sets of amendments is the improvement of the labour law regime for the participation of state prosecutorial staff in the conduct of urgent procedural actions, thus implementing the Court of Auditors’ recommendations regarding the recording and payment of preparedness and on-call allowances. The proposal further implements European Union legislation on the functioning of the European Union Judicial Cooperation Agency in criminal proceedings. Thus, part of the bill is intended for a new procedure for the appointment of a national representative, his deputy and an assistant in Eurojust. Their mandate and rights, which go to designated representatives from the Republic of Slovenia, shall be redefined. The State Prosecutor's Office acts as an independent independent state authority whose main function is to detect crimes and prosecute perpetrators. Appropriate legislation is needed to enable public prosecutors to carry out their functions successfully. This is where we all agree. A key issue in today's proposal, however, is considered by some in this Chamber to revolve around the possible impact of leading prosecutors on the decisions of individual competent prosecutors in the cases they solve. The rule of law should also address the potential risk of policy impact on the work of the State Prosecutor's Office of the new proposed regulation of Article 169 of this proposal, which deals with the effectiveness and uniformity of prosecution. This is an assessment submitted by the proposed amendment to delete Article 24 in their explanation. In the Desus Group of the new Article 24, we do not perceive as a threat to the substantive independence of the State Prosecutor's Office, but as a step towards greater efficiency and a more uniform policy of persecution. According to our assessment, this is merely an upgrade to the existing obligations of the Prosecutor-General after the submission of the draft act to his direct supervisor, i.e. the Chief Prosecutor. In view of the statistics of the dismissed cases, as discussed in the introduction of the proposed legislative text, it is reasonable that the role of the Prosecutor-in-chief should be increased in those serious crimes where a higher prison sentence is imposed, and in addition to the Chief Prosecutor, two other prosecutors are included in the review of the decision to dismiss the case, which, in our opinion, means that both transparency and the independence of the assessment of the grounds for prosecution are ensured. The Ministry of Justice, in addition to high statistics on dismissed cases, also notes a derogation by number between the individual prosecutions and the proposed new model of so-called supervision of prosecutors is a necessary step towards a more uniform policy of prosecution. The Constitutional Court has also already called for the issue of control over the work of the State prosecutions, which states in one of its decisions that internal supervision of the work of the State prosecutor in order to ensure the uniformity of prosecution and the professional regularity and efficiency of the execution of the State prosecutor's office is not admissible and that the Prosecutor is obliged to follow the general instructions on the law enforcement policy formulated by the competent authority in accordance with the law. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we see no reason not to support the proposed law. As an additional argument of the apparent imposition of control or political influence on state prosecutors, another argument from the Constitutional Court is welcome, which concludes that the State Prosecutor is part of the executive branch of government, but not one that could be directed by the Government or any ministry in terms of political and professional guidance in specific matters. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we consider that the adoption of the law, in particular as regards Article 24 as contained in the amended proposal of the law, is not in any way detrimental to the independent and independent work of the state prosecutors. It is only a lever to make the work more efficient and the process of prosecution is well-managed and well-founded in one direction or another. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have the floor. Jani Ivanusha.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u14	Nice greetings to those present at the Hall, especially the Minister of Justice! As we have heard in this proposal, Article 24 is disputed for certain groups. The National Assembly is a legislative branch of government. The latter must respond to the problems encountered in practice. In doing so, he must strive not to be disturbed by the sense of injustice or the sense that we are not living in a legal state. If we cross the line, the fact that all state prosecutors have written this article on their own in recent years. The content of this Article is thus a response to developments in practice. Incomprehensible number, in 2019, attention was paid to 18 thousand 423 criminal charges. Listen, this number isn't small, it's for individuals, people, a lot of people, alleged victims. We're talking about a disproportionately large number of dropped criminal charges. The State Prosecutor shall decide on the rejection of a criminal charge solely on the basis of his own judgment or on the basis of what he himself assesses and sees the whole case. Each of us knows in the medical profession a visit, or a consiglia, where experts consult each other, how to proceed with the patient. No one has a problem with this type of action. It is a matter of trying to avoid human error as much as possible through some kind of college body, and yet there is also confusion. Now that he wants to introduce himself to the D.A., all the shouting and screaming. It follows from the data that 40 % of all rejected complaints are due to the absence of a standard of proof – a reasonable suspicion. We have the police, which is the crime detection authority, and the state prosecutor's office, which is the law enforcement agency. These two bodies must cooperate. On the other hand, the Criminal Procedure Act imposes an obligation on all public authorities and organisations to declare offences for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official responsibility. On the other hand, an individual may state an offence for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under an official obligation. Thus, the law provides for certain obligations, which are further sanctioned by the fact that the suspension of an accusation of a criminal offence is a crime. In spite of the obligations imposed by an individual under threat of prosecution, then the State prosecutor can easily dismiss a criminal complaint. That's not right. The individual is alone, and on the other hand, the whole apparatus is people who have to make sure that all the evidence is collected. We can't ask the D.A. to file an indictment in such a way that the D.A. has everything on his plate. In our view, people could have a fair view of the rule of law if the court handed down an acquittal; not that the prosecutor has already dropped the complaint and has thus concluded the proceedings. People would say in this case – the prosecutor started the proceedings, but the court ruled as it was. The Court should be the one who always definitively decides whether or not a crime has been committed; and not the prosecutor. In doing so, we point out that people should file complaints with public authorities or prosecutors and not with the police, as usual. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party has the floor. Franz Beznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u16	Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the State Prosecutor's Office has been amended several times since its adoption, but has not been systematically harmonised. Its individual institutes needed upgrades, which the profession noted in the joint reports on the work of state prosecutors and in the annual reports. The working group, composed of representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the State Prosecutor's Council and the Association of State Prosecutors of Slovenia, has drawn up expert conclusions following the examination of the Institute of the State Prosecutor's Office and its partial novelties on the basis of the debate held on individual institutes, which have led to the following solutions. First; optimisation of the procedures for the appointment and promotion of state prosecutors, secondly; more specific regulation of the grounds for the termination of the state prosecutor's office, thirdly; strengthening the autonomy and responsibility of the heads of state prosecutors to carry out the tasks of the state prosecutor's office, fourthly; more comprehensive regulation of the status of the organisation and functioning of the State Prosecutor's Council, fifthly; upgrading of individual provisions or institutions, in particular the use of the national community language, suspension or suspension of the execution of the decision, disciplinary infringements, promotion of a higher title by law, appeal colleges, training for managerial functions, carrying out an examination of the provisions of the national law, judicial supervision, catalogue of competences of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and so on six occasions; facilitating the regulation of the content of the annual work programme and statistical reporting of the public prosecutions; The contents of Article 24 of the Government proposal, which amends Article 169 of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, have been disputed in the current proceedings of the law. The original government proposal, which is in law, lays down the obligation to submit a draft act in co-signed to the Head of State Prosecutors before the decision of the State Prosecutor to dismiss an action for a criminal offence for which a prison sentence is prescribed in the law for more than three years. By supplementing Article 169, the Prosecutor should submit a draft of this act to the Head of Public Prosecutions before a decision to dismiss an accusation, where the ground is that the alleged offence is not an offence for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official responsibility, or if there is no reasonable suspicion that the suspect has committed an unknown offence. In the case of statutory penalties for more than eight years, the Head of Public Prosecutions shall consult two other state prosecutors on the grounds for rejecting this complaint. The proposed article retains the obligation to submit a draft act to the Chief of Public Prosecutions instead of the signature of the act of the proposal, now the contents, the following paragraph: "The Prosecutor may issue the act referred to in paragraph 1 and 2 of this Article only after the Head of State Prosecutor or the authorised person has signed the draft declaration that he has examined it." Why does the Slovenian Democratic Party and the proposer consider it important to amend Article 169 of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office? Firstly, the draft rejected complaints were extremely high in relation to the analyses carried out. I think it's over 80% somewhere. Taking over the pursuit by a private person is very difficult, for him means quite high costs and, of course, personal engagement. The high number of discards raised the issue of efficiency and uniformity of prosecution, as not all courts in the same cases for the same reasons rejected criminal complaints on the same scale. There have been major differences in individual cases. Nor were the grounds for rejection always correct, which shows that timely and professional supervision of the work of individual prosecutors is essential when it is still possible to influence the decisions of the prosecution. This is, in fact, the only way to get things in order, even on the basis of the signature of the Head of Public Prosecutions, is to know that the draft was given for review or another opinion on the content, on the justification of rejection before the decision itself. It is therefore essential to amend the proposed content. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, including the amendment included, will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u18	Thank you, President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Today we have before us a new law that should be more or less implementing. Initially, the novel had two goals. The first objective was to prepare the implementing provisions of the Regulation on judicial cooperation in criminal matters. The second objective was to implement corrective measures resulting from the Court of Auditors’ audit report. So more or less technical amendments to the law. However, as we have seen many times before, we are also witnessing in the amendment of the State Prosecutor's Act a familiar mode of operation of this government, when laws that are not even contrary to the content do not need to be opposed are fuelled by controversial provisions that make the law unacceptable. For example, we have experienced this in every so-called corona package so far, and we are witnessing it today when this novel tries to significantly reduce the autonomy, autonomy and independence of state prosecutors in their work. You forget that the Public Prosecutor's Office is a constitutional category and that, even when it determines whether or not a criminal charge will be dropped or will continue to be prosecuted, it is only bound by the Constitution and the laws and internationally ratified treaties in its work. This is some international legal standard, some minimum, to make the country become and remain a legal state and to avoid any pressure on law enforcement authorities in this country. As soon as we allow the state prosecutors to decide to dismiss one of the criminal charges, so that in these cases the prosecutors will be subject to mandatory legal supervision and substantive interference in their professional decisions, we will allow politics to sneak into the work of prosecutors. And if you don't believe our warnings, listen to the profession for once for a change. The Committee on Justice has been very clear and unified with regard to the amendments on the supervision of prosecutors. The State Prosecutor's Council has, for example, taken the following position, quote: “We strongly oppose any regulation which, at some normative level, either directly or indirectly, affects the independence and independence of state prosecutors.” End of quote. Next, the State Attorney's Office said the following: “We appreciate that the proposal is also contrary to the principles of the rule of law and international standards on the functioning and position of state prosecutors in the exercise of the law enforcement function.” End of quote. I wonder, my fellow Members of the Coalition, which of these things is not understandable to you. In the LMŠ Group, we are truly concerned about where you are leading this country, by the time you whistle at the entire professional public, who in one voice shouts at you the same message. This change in the functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office is not a systemic upgrade, as you are trying to demonstrate; it is a violation of the concept of system regulation. These new laws, which, as I mentioned at the outset, should be of a more or less implementing nature, because of one very controversial article in the LMŠ Group, of course we will not support. However, the amendment of the law will receive our votes in the event that a mini miracle happens and in the coalition you support our amendment, i.e. the amendment of opposition parliamentary groups, to erase this controversial article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats. Mag. Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! It is clear that once again, as in recent times, under the cover of a reduced procedure in the proposal for a new law, there are provisions that are certainly not minor changes, but also, in this case, provisions that undermine the rule of law and are dangerously interfering with the independence and independence of the judiciary. It is true that the new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, on the one hand, brings the necessary alignment with European Union law and also takes into account some of the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors, which we certainly agree with. However, the novel also brings about such changes, which cannot be supported by the Social Democrats in any way. Thus, if the State Prosecutor wishes to dismiss a criminal charge for a criminal offence for which a prison sentence has been prescribed for more than three years, he will have to obtain a co-signatory from the Head of the State Prosecutor before that; however, if he wishes to dismiss an indictment for a criminal offence for which a sentence of eight years or more has been imposed, the Chief Prosecutor will have to consult two other prosecutors. Of course, such a change has met with few criticisms. Although the coalition on the Justice Committee defended this solution and based it on a uniform policy of prosecution, it also tabled a coalition amendment that limited this signature to those criminal charges which were rejected for the reason that the Prosecutor considers that there are no signs of a crime that is being prosecuted under official duty and to those who do not have reasonable suspicion that the offence has been committed, the Legislative and Legal Service, the State Prosecutor's Council and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office have nevertheless strongly opposed such a proposal on the Committee. In our view, the amendment to this Act is questionable in terms of constitutionality, violates constitutional provisions on the independence and independence of state prosecutors who carry out their duties independently and must be protected from external pressure. And this co-signature is an unacceptable influence on the decisions of the state prosecutor in a specific case, as it will affect whether or not the prosecutor will withdraw from the prosecution. The Constitutional Court has already taken the view that the decision must be whether to bring a criminal charge before the competent court and how it will represent it, the matter of the state prosecutor who is handling the case. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out on the Committee that the proposed new regime even deviates from the single law enforcement policy and that the effects of this provision cover both organisational and procedural issues. We also ask Social Democrats what this provision will bring into practice. The Chief of Public Prosecutions will have to examine the whole case or file before giving such a signature, which we know will, of course, delay the process of resolving the case. The proposed provision also violates international law, contrary to the Rome Charter and the positions of the Court of Justice of the European Union, according to which independence of judgment is an essential element of the independence of justice. Social Democrats point out that it is primarily the state that must ensure the independence and impartiality of the judiciary by setting clear and unambiguous rules that guarantee this independence. It must therefore do everything in its power to strengthen the institution of the rule of law, to strengthen people's confidence in the justice system and to establish appropriate and, in particular, legal mechanisms to control the judicial authorities and their decisions. The opposition parties were therefore proposing an amendment proposing the deletion of the disputed article in question. If the amendment in question does not receive support at today's meeting, then we will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, President. Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! Since amendments were tabled only by opposition groups to Article 24 of the Law, it is possible to expect that today a debate will only be held on the amendment of Article 169, which governs the mechanisms of control for the enforcement of the single law of persecution. Nevertheless, we would like to point out in the SMC Group that the proposal for a law provides for the adaptation of the current provisions of the Regulation on the European Union Agency for Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters. Eurojust has been established to strengthen the fight against serious forms of cross-border crime and organised crime. In accordance with their legal system, Member States shall temporarily appoint one representative to work at the organisation's headquarters. He's being assisted by a deputy and an assistant. Those amendments which constitute the implementation of the Regulations are foreseen. The implementation of the Court of Auditors’ recommendation on the establishment of a legal basis for working arrangements for the participation of state prosecutors in the conduct of urgent procedural actions and on the implementation and recording of the preparedness and on-call of the State Prosecutor's Office and state prosecutor's staff is also envisaged. As already mentioned, unfortunately, the debate will only be about the amendments to Article 169 and the allegations of alleged interference with the independence of state prosecutors in criminal proceedings. In this regard, it is worth noting that the latter amendment does not constitute any novelty, since the 2011 law has already introduced an institution of insight in which an effective and uniform policy of persecution is to be ensured. At the time, however, the latter was not a novelty, but the marriage text merely specified the provisions of the 2004 former State Prosecutor's Order, which provided that the State Prosecutor could issue, file or execute the act only after the Head signed the draft diary stating that he had reviewed the draft. However, since it has been shown in practice that the regime was not implemented in the way it was designed at the time of the adoption of the law, this provision is being specified in order to follow the policy of prosecution of the State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia in 2017. The proposed solution is intended only for equalisation and uniformity of persecution. With regard to the independence of state prosecutors in relation to Article 135 of the Constitution, it is appropriate to draw attention to Article 3 of the Law on State Prosecutors, which refers to the independence of state prosecutors. It will continue to be the case until now if the Head of State Prosecutor considers that the act of the competent state prosecutor contains shortcomings and incomprehensibility, it will not go forward, but will propose to the competent state prosecutor that it should be corrected. He will also propose a method of drafting an act. If the competent state prosecutor does not agree to supplement or correct the document and if the Head of State Prosecutor considers that he cannot agree with the draft act, the Head of State Prosecutor will take over the matter from the competent state prosecutor. To all critics and doubters who, despite the arguments presented, continue to claim that the solutions proposed constitute an intervention in autonomy, we would like to quote the following position. The Advisory Council of European Prosecutors, in its 31st paragraph of this opinion, 2018, says: "Inside independence and autonomy does not mean that every prosecutor can do everything; it can be part of a hierarchical system whose task is clear and without prejudice to independence to ensure the proper functioning of the prosecution as a whole and the coherence of prosecution." And so on. Also in the following points, the Council clearly sets out the position that the leader has the right to give instructions in individual matters. All internal instructions within the framework of the Prosecutor's Office must be written, transparent and seek to find the truth and the proper functioning of justice. On the basis of the above arguments, we support the proposal of the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 28 September 2020. I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD. Anybody want to talk? Comrade Tina Hefferle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you very much. As I have already said in my position, this law hides one very damaging article for the independence of the State Prosecutor's Office, and I will justify why. In all positions, I listened to them very carefully, especially the coalition parties, because I really wanted to understand why this change you are now introducing, because everyone in one voice, including the Minister, is stressing that the current legislation, the State Prosecutor's Office Act, is allowing for some control over the work of the State Prosecutor's Office. We know the institution of taking over matters, we know the institute set out in Article 169 of this Act, where it is possible to review the act by choice or judgement of the Attorney General and so on. In the last position we were able to hear correctly, section 3 of the State Prosecutor's Act speaks of the independence of the Attorney General. I would quote the position of the Constitutional Court in one of its judgments and go as follows: "The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia considers that a regulation which would not otherwise impose a legal obligation on the public prosecutor to act on the wishes or instructions of other persons, but would allow the State Prosecutor to be inadmissibly influenced or subjected to undue pressure to act in a particular way in a particular case, is inconsistent with the first paragraph of Article 135 of the Constitution of Slovenia." This influence that you are trying to legitimize today is, of course, a direct influence. It also has some indirect effects precisely this legal dictatorship. Charge to the Attorney General. We have seen, the Constitutional Court is clear – this is unacceptable. In his work, the Attorney General must be autonomous, of course professional and bound to all legal principles and laws, the Constitution and so on. However, decisions must be made autonomously, independently and independently. And here I mean independently of any indirect or direct pressures of the outside world. If we look at this signature or now our favorite necessary insight or paraphobic view of a specific act, that is, an act to dismiss the complaint. We have been able to hear when the state prosecutor, in cases that deal with these serious crimes, has concluded that the matter is not so indisputable or that it is not so strong by evidence and so on, and will decide to dismiss the criminal complaint, will have to be reviewed by a higher state prosecutor. Thus, this will in practice mean so, he will conclude that the criminal charge is dropped, he will be judged and then he will wait. He'll be waiting for the parish to act, and without this parish, the Attorney General won't be able to drop the criminal charges. The law is very unclear in the article. And in this envisaged new arrangement, it is very unclear. It does not specify the time limit within which the Prosecutor must receive this expulsion act back in the first place, nor does it provide for a solution to the situation of what happens when he does not simply receive this act or receives a criminal complaint, a decision to dismiss the criminal charge back without that parish. Can he then dismiss a criminal complaint; does he have to continue his criminal proceedings against or contrary to his professional judgement, for which he has assessed that the conditions are not met? In short, a number of misplaced things in this arrangement, in this same article, which opens up such a very large space for some manipulations to create pressures, such as those and others, if you want – even political pressures. It may be just for some reason that, in this part of the prosecution, when the prosecutor receives a criminal complaint before him, then along with the police, he directs investigative actions that are sometimes, especially in these large criminal cases, such as yours, very complicated, very difficult, very difficult on both the professional level and the formal salary. Attention should be paid to any minority that then some investigative action does not fall into your water due to some procedural errors. And after all of this has been completed by the police and put together a set of evidence that they have collected, the prosecutor will then weigh them, professionally, legally, in fact; then he will decide whether or not to dismiss the prosecution. And I would like to point out that before the prosecutor decides to do so, the whole process is to drop the criminal charge. And now to expect that, after this arrangement, as you suggest, the prosecutor will simply put this decision on the dismissal of a criminal charge as a sheet of paper at the discretion of the superior, nor will you clearly define whether this superior will now review only the decision to dismiss a criminal charge, to examine the reasons the prosecutor points out in this regard, says one letter. Whether this control will, however, be effective, as you say it will be, or will it look like this supervisor who will supervise or two prosecutors to take the file that is sometimes in these most serious crimes is extensive, even on hundreds or thousands of pages; and now you expect one prosecutor or two, even two, this extensive file to be so well, so professionally, thoroughly and thoroughly studied, as was studied by the prosecutor who, at the time of the investigation, has actually participated in this procedure during the forecasting process, it seems somewhat illusory. For the first time, for reasons we know that all investigative actions, including interrogations, are conducted, have some human factor. The prosecutor, who monitors and directs the work of the police all the time, perceives this human factor. But someone who will be forced to judge a criminal case only on the basis of the status of the file will not detect this human factor. Probably, he'll probably lose some of the other details, more important, less important, I don't want to speculate here, but it's illusory to expect that this control, as you now want to legislate, will be of the same quality and expertise. In fact, it will be of great quality and expertise if we know that the judicial records or prosecution records of such crimes, where they involve more serious crimes, are very extensive. The other thing, the other aspect of this is, you talk so much, we talk about the fact that the courts are lagging behind, that things are running too slowly, that we are facing the aging of crimes and so on. It's not just going to double here, it's going to triple. I do not see the point if we leave it aside that such an arrangement as you propose is unacceptable in terms of the autonomy and autonomy of the Attorney General, and if we leave it aside, I will return to it a little later, the regime you are proposing is also absurd in terms of work. You are duplicative, triple the duty of the Attorney General to review the file for his colleagues; we know that in principle, not in principle, all prosecutors are bound by the Constitution, the law, the legal standards and so on, as we have already heard today. To be blinded to the fact that this marker or the parish on the action to dismiss a criminal complaint is not at least indirect pressure, is also a bit clumsy. In practice, this will look like this: the prosecutor will have a case he hesitates to deal with or not, but he will be afraid that before his superiors I do not know what; and he will say – oh, let's put it over, just in case, because it doesn't matter, we'll see if he drinks water or not during the trial. That's not how it works. By doing so, we will bring some criminal cases to the courts that will not be completed, which will not be technically supported by appropriate material evidence, just so that the prosecutor who has been involved in the criminal proceedings until then will avoid the boss coming and will say, "Look, here you have no parish, or continue with the procedure through his professional convictions or I don't know what will happen." You didn't see any consequences for that, either, if that parish wasn't there. You justify this new arrangement by making it an even more additional, stronger protector in some criminal procedure and by strengthening this cooperation. I think I have made clear enough what this pressure will look like, which will be faced by the prosecutor every time he faces a case that he will not be so sure of or not at all when he decides to drop the criminal charge. This is pressure and this is the undue pressure that the Constitutional Court draws attention to in its decisions. And this is the pressure that destroys the autonomy of the prosecutor, which undermines the independence and independence of the prosecutor, which we know to be necessary, the minimum condition that we have investigative bodies independent of anything but political pressures. Some excuse that we have recently had no idea how high the number of rejection of criminal charges, with this number, ladies and gentlemen, you are manipulating. With this number, you do not say that 42% of the rejection of criminal charges due to an unsuspecting suspicion is true, but you do not say that in these 42%, there may be some more, some less, in these 42%, in these 42% are mostly crimes of a lower degree, it is said to be those easier crimes; and in these criminal charges, which are dismissed, this is a ratio of 1:8. This relationship means that one criminal complaint is filed by the police, 8 criminal charges are filed by the victims. And before that, we've heard very well that the victims have no legal knowledge to assess whether or not an offence is a crime now, or whether it's a crime, meets all the criminal signs of a crime or not. They write or file a criminal complaint and then have to decide on the state's authority, the prosecutor. And it's the prosecutor who makes the only professional decision and has the knowledge to make a professional decision. And now to say that by dismissing criminal charges, that's another manipulation. We all know that the criminal procedure does not end with the dismissal of a criminal charge. There is still a possibility of prosecution, perhaps even the same prosecutor over time, when he finds new evidence, reopens the same criminal case. To say that everything just ends when a criminal charge is dropped is a little misleading. The criminal act is not aged when a criminal charge is dropped. And here to base my reasons for adopting such a change as you propose today, for these reasons, which I have just mentioned, it is, in my opinion, not only in my opinion, but also in the opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council – unprofessional. You, by legislating mandatory supervision of the prosecutor's work in some cases only when the prosecutor decides whether or not to drop the criminal charge, say there is pressure here; you simply break the whole system we have established for the work of the state prosecutors. And to align some general rules for directing the prosecutor's work forward – we know that the heads of state prosecutors have this responsibility and duty under law – this is their work – to align this influence or such control with that control as you want to legalize today, with control in specific matters, these are two different situations. By doing what you wish to do today, you will intervene in specific cases and will interfere with the content. I have tried earlier to show how high-quality and professional this review of such files or of such decisions to prosecute a crime is going to be. One more thing. The Minister had earlier said that despite this statutory control, the prosecutors would retain their autonomy and autonomy by being able to enforce the legal remedy available to them in the State Prosecutor's Council. This is not the autonomy and autonomy discussed by the Constitutional Court and discussed by all international standards and also referred to by the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. It's not that autonomy. Just throwing sand in the eyes is a matter for the prosecutor to make a legal case in the State Prosecutor's Council. This does not prevent or prevent the unacceptable influence on the work of the Attorney General, which you are now trying to legislate with this amendment. That I will not be too long, I think that I have shown this matter by making it clear to everyone, including the legal laity, that by keeping an eye on the state prosecutor, by keeping an eye on all of his decisions regarding the rejection of criminal charges, you are in fact creating an indirect and direct influence on the work of the prosecutor and thereby undermining the professionalism and autonomy of the state prosecutors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Since I'm observing the desire for a debate, I'm putting my application on the list. The first one has the word mag. Dean Kaloh.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u26	President, thank you so much for your word. I'll be considerably shorter than Mrs. Hefferle was. I would just like to highlight the points brought by the novel ZDT-1D. In the debate on the amendment tabled by the opposition, however, it must be said that nothing is hidden, nothing is understated, everything is clear and concrete; however, it is true that sometimes there is an additional ongoing effort to be made to see where the law goes further in this determination, precision. In doing so, the opposition Members would point out that this recording and business in this regard is very detailed in section 24 of the draft law, and I think that the provisions of Articles 89 and 90 also define this matter well enough. On the committee, this coalition amendment to Article 24 of the draft Law on the State Prosecutor's Office has been upgraded, as has been said many times today, in relation to this general instruction given by the President or the Head of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The role and responsibility of state prosecutors are strengthened, which is very good and necessary. The objective of the proposal, both under the line, if removed in one sentence, is that the unification of state prosecutors and, at the same time, maintaining the role of the Head of the Prosecutor in organisational and operational coordination and ensuring the uniformity of prosecutions for this group is the denominator of our efforts in the proposed amendment, which has also been confirmed on the Committee. Today, again, to put it mildly, it was misleading that independence is now being lost. That's just not true. The Attorney General is independent and independent. Even when this amendment is enacted, it will still remain the master, as we like to say in the legal jargon, of the procedure for persecuting perpetrators of crimes. It is true, however, that this upgrade, provided for in this proposal of the law, does in practice bring this obligatoryness into practice, that this obligation of the State Prosecutor's Office relating to cases of dismissal of criminal charges is made. That's right, that's necessary. What's that going to look like in practice? The State Prosecutor will submit this draft to his boss, if I say domestically, the Attorney General of the State, for the offences for which the sentence has been prescribed for more than three years, and his boss will state that he has examined this rejection himself, of course, from a professional point of view. I think that this decision by the Attorney General to dismiss an indictment must be considered further in any instance, as it is nevertheless a criminal offence which is not defined in the Penal Code by imprisonment for three years or eight years, where the Head of Public Prosecutions will also have to consult two other state prosecutors. And I think that this judgment will really have the weight that we as the legislator expect. The coalition amendment to delete Article 24 is, to put it mildly, ridiculous, because, as it is said, the objective is to ensure that the organisation and operational coordination are only unified. And I think that with this novelty we are going to the point of speaking in the jargon that this prosecutor, who has dropped the complaint under the law, is somehow helping that in the crimes mentioned above, the Head of Public Prosecutions is still the one with whom they will jointly confirm this proposal for a motion to dismiss the complaint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Franz Breznik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I am speaking on the proposal for a law on the State Prosecutor's Office. I already mentioned at least nine points today, which is why we need a novelty of this law. I have talked about those matters that are problematic because the Public Prosecutor's Office Act has been partially amended several times, but has never been systematically harmonised. In the National Assembly we had many times to support something, but we're looking for systemic solutions, which I've listened to for years and years. We are now solving for the first time the optimisation of the procedures for the appointment and promotion of state prosecutors, i.e. the reasons for the termination of the state prosecutor's office, notably more specific arrangements, notably strengthening the autonomy and responsibility of the heads of state prosecutors to carry out the tasks of the state prosecutor's office. Here I can say that it is likely that someone who is the head of the State Prosecutor’s Office has more experience, has more expertise, which is why he is also the leader of one; whether he is in different services or he is in the prosecutor’s service. The Novela is talking about a more comprehensive regulation of the position and competence of organisations and the functioning of the State Prosecutor's Council. What is, unfortunately, the main topic today, although the Minister of Justice wanted to expand the debate and somehow stressed that there is no need for everything to revolve around Article 24 of the Government proposal, which amends Article 169 of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, let me say the following. What the opposition has proposed in particular, namely the amendment of the Levic, LMŠ, SAB and SD groups on 15 September, speaks of the fact that the state prosecutor is an unmistakable person, that he is the so-called Superman, based on the fact that this country does not need a barrier and balance. And as in other professions, professional groups, including judges, we have a class trial, we find that this individual is not and cannot be intruding, it has nothing to do with and does not rule out his independence. Just as an experienced doctor consults his colleagues at the board on how to treat a patient; as in special cases, we are not talking about all matters, but we are talking about cases where more than 3 years in prison are prescribed and if the sentence is more than 8 years in prison, the Head of Public Prosecutions is consulting with two other state prosecutors about the reasons for the dropped charges. What's the problem here, my respectable colleagues? What's the problem? I don't see him. However, I have seen the problem since we became independent that state prosecutors have not been able to write down serious criminal complaints about property law. Remember ownership in Slovenia alone, who stole our country and so on; all of these expanding flags. Now we're solving things so that it doesn't happen again. And we had the first robbery of Slovenian banks, and we had the second robbery of Slovenian banks. In that bigger second robbery, there were even smaller robberies, I'm talking about the other one, I think we've criminalized one trial against one banker or two, that's all. Let us recall corruption, where the KPC also notes that the most common is in energy, that it is extremely common in construction; and let us remember how many such cases, how many individuals in this country came before the court. What they put in the drawer or what a number of professional mistakes were made by the state’s prosecutors, so it did not even come before the judicial branch of power. Here's the problem. I can see for myself that this is a logical solution that does not interfere with independence. The Attorney General is still on his own, but it is only those infamous cases where larger prison sentences are at risk. And this co-signature, when the case is dismissed, will be signed in the first case by the Head of State Prosecutor's Office; but in the case of a larger case, as I have said, for 8 years, this Head of Public Prosecutor's Office will consult two other state prosecutors. In many professional groups, there are precisely such solutions, and I do not know a doctor who would say that this sheds light on his insolence. In fact, even in each professional group, those who have a healthy self - criticism would agree most. I'd say that's what we learn. Like my fellow mags said before me. Kaloh, first and foremost, some cases are brought before the prosecution. In the judiciary, we are talking about uniform case law, but we can also talk about unifying certain cases that can then be rejected. If we took a closer look at that percentage of rejections, I looked at it with great interest, especially with regard to analyses, we can see that the most often in Ljubljana these great things are being rejected. This practice of dismissed cases is also very different. Although I also agree with colleague Hefferle, who used to say that this is a lot of minor things. I can agree here, too, but most of the time in minority matters, there are also dangerous penalties where there are less than three years in prison; in this novelism, this amendment, which we have adopted in the coalition at the time, is without prejudice. Still in minority cases, the state prosecutor does not need a co-signature, so he will not need a co-signature if this novel is approved today. And I think the matter in practice can come to life. If I had somehow concluded my part of the debate, I would have said that a colleague of Prof. Dr. Gorenak sat next to me, who at that time said that there was a lack of legislation in the field of the State Prosecutor's Office, and that only the blue sky could be given to prosecutors. From now on, if this is voted on, there will be more than a blue sky against the prosecutor, and his professional colleagues will be. Probably for someone called the head of the D.A., it means he's more competent to have more experience. In this unification of also rejected criminal charges, there may also be some practice here, which will lead to swift and effective prosecution decisions in the long run; and, on the one hand, even a number of serious crimes, particularly repulsive crimes, which have also been the target of public debates, most often public criticism, including prosecutors and, in particular, judges, has somehow been rejected. With this marriage solution, I see in the end greater confidence between the state and the prosecutor. In that case, which will be dismissed, where the chairman will sign, or in those worst cases, two other state prosecutors, we can say that it was another review of the case. The case, which will be rejected by several co-signers, has some greater legitimacy and enjoys some greater legitimacy in society as well, and ultimately in the prosecution. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle."
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The discussion, both earlier by the leaders of the groups to amend the Prosecutor's Act and the current debate, shows that the key focus is on amending Article 169. The fact is that in the materials submitted, the Constitutional Court, in its judgment in 2013, pointed out that Article 135(1) of the Constitution of Slovenia contains the principle of functional independence of state prosecutors and that the amendment of this Article is clearly contrary. A similar assessment was made by the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, to the current proposals for amendments to the Prosecutor's Act. These things have not yet been dismissed by the motioner when an introduction was introduced by the Minister of Justice, even now that some members of the government coalition have convinced us that the intentions are fair, positive, that certain results should be achieved. The thing is, obviously, as I said, it's an illicit pressure on prosecutors through a change in this law and an attack on the independence of the investigating authorities. And it's more than a professionally and politically motivated proposal. With the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, the applicants sought to mitigate in one more tangible way the original government proposal for a law, which was laid down, as previously stated, the obligation to submit a draft act for signature or co-signage to the Heads of State Prosecutor, prior to the decision of the State Prosecutor to dismiss an indictment for a criminal offence for which a prison sentence has been prescribed in the law for more than 3 years. By supplementing Article 169 of the Public Prosecutor's Act, that State prosecutor should submit a draft act to the Head of Public Prosecutions before the decision to dismiss the complaint, where the ground is for rejection. In the event of a statutory penalty of more than 8 years, the Head of Public Prosecutions, to whom this case has been submitted, shall then consult two state prosecutors on the grounds for rejection. The proposed article retains, now that it has been amended, i.e. in a newly prepared case, the obligation to submit a draft act to the Head of State Prosecutor's Office for inspection, only to sign the matter instead of a co-signature. This provides for the following paragraph: “The Prosecutor may issue the act referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article only after the Head of the Public Prosecutor’s Office or the authorised person by signing the draft has indicated that he has examined it.” It is practically the same thing as it was prescribed in the previous amendment, which has changed. And such a proposed article is essentially no different from what I said before. There is still an element of the obligation here – to give the act to the Head of the State Prosecutor for review and, at the same time, to obtain his signature on the review of this draft act, which de facto amounts to the agreement of the Head of State Prosecutor. Without written evidence of the review of the act, the Prosecutor of State may not take a decision either to dismiss the complaint or to continue the criminal proceedings. The reasons are so largely the same as the reasons for the imposition of the co-signature of the State Prosecutor and the Head of Public Prosecutions. In this case, too, it is a matter of limiting the autonomy of state prosecutors. The proposal does not achieve the objectives – and this is essential – set out in the proposal, namely greater efficiency and uniformity of prosecution. Moreover, it also constitutes a significant restriction on the autonomy of the work of the State prosecutor, since in certain cases it requires the approval of the Head of State Prosecutor. This has been practically highlighted today by all parties, representatives of all parties who disagree with the proposed amendment. And the proposed regulation can directly and indirectly affect the independence and independence of state prosecutors, while at the same time it is questionable from a constitutional point of view and in contravention of international standards on the situation and functioning of state prosecutors in the exercise of law enforcement functions. The independence of state prosecutors is a guarantee for a fair, impartial and effective judiciary that protects the public and private interests of the persons involved. Public prosecutors must be autonomous in their decision-making and carry out their duties without external pressure, without being called upon to challenge you by the President of the Government, or interference, taking into account the principle of the division of power and responsibility; as announced by the President of the Government when he called on the Attorney General to prosecute protestors who carried the inscriptions with clear substantive significance. It follows from the provisions of the Public Prosecutor's Act that the state prosecutor's position is similar to that of a judge, which guarantees independence and independence to the state prosecutor. In spite of one organisational hierarchical arrangement, it is necessary to have the autonomy to decide individual criminal matters. The Slovenian state prosecutor is not an official, as we have pointed out several times before, but he is a judicial official with an unlimited mandate and a high level of responsibility for his work. The law itself conceptually provides for such a materially independent state prosecutor, which means that no one can and must not interfere with his decision, which is independent. But it is the Prosecutor of the State who is competent to determine, within the framework of the constitutional and legal framework, whether or not he will file a criminal charge and how he will represent it. This decision must be its own decision, which must be made conscientiously and according to its best professional judgement. This is not his right, but it is his responsibility, duty and responsibility in the execution of the state prosecutor's office. As I said at the outset, the Constitutional Court in 2013 pointed out in its judgment that Article 135(1) of the Constitution of Slovenia contains the principle of functional independence of state prosecutors; and this is precisely what we deny to amend this Article 169 of the Law. According to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the proposed article is controversial, as it means a departure from the Institute of the Single Law Enforcement Policy, which is under the jurisdiction of the Attorney General, and also contains framework guidelines for the rejection of criminal charges or for the use of either delayed prosecution or settlement. And the mandatory consultation of the Head of Public Prosecutions with the two state prosecutors on the grounds for dismissing the complaint also provides for more than 8 years of imprisonment, which includes a transfer of responsibilities and an assessment of the substantive decision. In view of the existing regime, it is no longer clear whether it is still an institution which is intended only to remedy the shortcomings or whether it is a procedure for non-conformity with the content of the decision. The Supreme State Prosecutor's Office also points out the inappropriateness of the proposed regime and, among other things, stresses that rejection does not constitute the end of the proceedings. In the event of rejection of the complaint, a subsidiary prosecution may also be possible, and rejection is not really judicata. The proposed arrangement does not address any possible discontent with the number of rejected complaints, but merely duplicates the work. This will also allow procedures to be severely delayed, may also lead to an ageing of persecution, or the required legitimacy simply cannot be carried out. And the proposed amendment poses a threat to one political pressure on state prosecutors, which has in particular taken place in contact between the Prime Minister of the Government and the Supreme Public Prosecutor with regard to the persecution of protestors who carry, as I have already said, certain passwords in their expression of dissatisfaction with the existing government. And given the latest developments and the political pressures of the government on the general prosecution of this prosecution, we can rightly be concerned that all of this will affect the decisions of the state prosecutors, which should be of a professional nature and not of a political nature dictated by the Cabinet – again, I say – of the President of the Government, which we have experience from the past. It is also even more important to maintain the autonomy of the State Prosecutor's Office. Otherwise, it will be the case that this state prosecutor, under pressure from the leader, will have to initiate a procedure that he himself would not initiate or drop a criminal complaint for compelling reasons. Nor is it clear from the explanation of the proposal how such centralised supervision of the work of state prosecutors could contribute to greater uniformity in the conduct of state prosecutors throughout the country. The single representation of state prosecutors shall be ensured by general instructions from the Attorney General, as provided for in Article 168 of the Public Prosecutor's Act, and by guidelines; and not by the supervision and handling of individual cases. Individual arbitral decision-making by the Head of Public Prosecutions may lead to even greater errors and, of course, this is also the case at hand. In the opinion of the Left, the proposed amendment does not in any way increase the effectiveness of prosecutions. If the Head of Public Prosecutions wishes to make the correct decision on the individual case he will receive in a mandatory review, he will have to examine the entire file in full, which requires time, which may mean an expiry of the case or a long-distance trial, which is contrary to the principles of effectiveness, even contrary to the principles of the right to a trial within a reasonable time. It is also clear from all of this that the proposed article reduces the level of the rule of law and creates the possibility of political pressure on state prosecutors. Therefore, the applicants of this amendment propose deleting Article 24. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is given by the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Zlatko Ratej.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. The aim of the proposed novel is to build on the effectiveness and unity of prosecution, and it is not a criticism or lack of confidence in the work of prosecutors, but the aim is to increase the confidence of the public and the victims in their decisions when they do not decide to prosecute. The independence of prosecutors must be understood in particular within the framework of Article 3 of the Public Prosecutor's Act. I also agree here with Ambassador Tina Heferle, who says that the illegal influence on the prosecutor is prohibited. However, let me point out that we are aware of this second paragraph of Article 3 and the entire ninth chapter of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Although Article 3 of the State Prosecutor's Act explicitly provides for a prohibition of interference with the Prosecutor's specific decisions. However, if we read the rule to the end, we find that in the second paragraph there is an exception, these are general instructions and take over matters. The general instructions and the institute are therefore mechanisms which the State Prosecutor's System knows and defines as admissible interference with the specific decisions of the state prosecutors. Both mechanisms are explicitly referred to in Article 169 of the Public Prosecutor's Act. The opposition to the proposed amendment therefore appears to be a building block of the current regime. We must not overlook the fact that the proposed amendment is merely an upgrade of an already existing article, which, as such within the limits of admissibility and constitutional compliance by nature of things, represents an adjustment to the prescribed autonomy of state prosecutors. That internal control is permissible, the Constitutional Court has already stated in 2013. This shall be permissible for the purpose of ensuring uniformity of prosecution. We do not understand why the already existing possibility of issuing instructions and, therefore, the instructions issued, setting out a specific information system and thus providing for mandatory insight into any decision of the prosecutor, does not mean pressure and interference; now the proposed mandatory view merely to dismiss criminal charges to a limited extent represents this. Let us point out that the State Prosecutor's Council remains, as it has been, a defender of the prosecutor's independence. Article 3 of the Public Prosecutor's Act does not prejudice us, so it remains an open road for a state prosecutor who believes that he or she is in violation of his or her independence. Responsibility for effective and uniform prosecution is the primary responsibility of the leader. However, by nature, the leader is bound by the effectiveness of the performance of the function and therefore there is no need for the deadlines as previously laid down in which he will review the draft act of the individual prosecutor. In accordance with the principle of the legality of prosecution, the State Prosecutor is obliged to initiate and persist in prosecution if there is a reasonable suspicion that the person concerned has committed a criminal offence for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under an official obligation. However, when the State Prosecutor decides to reject, which is a derogation from the principle of legality, it is the responsibility of the Head of State Prosecutor to ensure the uniformity of prosecution; this is in accordance with the applicable regulation, including the assessment of the existence or absence of legal conditions for the initiation or continuation of prosecution. All of the above strengthens us in the conviction that the proposed amendment does not interfere with the independent decision-making of the state prosecutor, but rather that the levers of the leaders are aimed at ensuring the uniformity of the prosecution. The Attorney-General has already set out in his policy of prosecution that, with a view to unifying the prosecution's practice and properly directing the police, it is necessary to establish a continuous monitoring of negative decisions on prosecution, which have been taken on the grounds that there is no reasonable suspicion that a disproportionateity between the weight of the act and the consequences of the prosecution has been given and that it is not a crime. All of this is already the practice of guides or should be the practice of guides, as even the current policy of persecution has given particular attention, i.e. in terms of negative decisions. At this point, I would like to stress in particular that the criminal procedure is intended to eliminate the material and mental harm suffered by the victim because of the crime, for example in the form of restitution, compensation or satisfaction. However, it also has a retaliatory nature under which the State imposes a fair penalty on the perpetrator of the crime. In order for the State to fulfil its task, the State Prosecutor must also carry out his task, which is to prosecute the perpetrators of crimes. Where the State prosecutor does not decide to prosecute, the State cannot, by virtue of the judicial branch of power, judge whether someone has committed a crime or punish the perpetrator of a crime. In fact, the law provides for a means by which the situation of the victim is being corrected, which has already been exposed today. This is the fact that the victim can be prosecuted, so the victim has the right to be prosecuted. At the same time, we must be aware of the situation in which the victim is. It could have suffered such mental wounds that have not yet healed, so it is difficult to assume that it will take over the persecution if it considers it necessary to prosecute the perpetrator of the crime. On the other hand, it is assumed that the victim has sufficient time, energy, patience and money for the prosecution carried out by an authorized lawyer. We believe that we must not allow our rights to be best protected by those who have money or the most powerful, so we must allow all victims to maintain their dignity, which is also one of the fundamental human rights and freedoms. A further review of the reasons for the rejection of prosecution will give rise to greater weight and increase the victim's confidence in the decision of a state prosecutor. Let us stress that the proposed amendment does not stem from a lack of confidence in the work of the state prosecutor's office, but rather from its purpose, the aim of increasing confidence. Taking into account the above-mentioned and based on the fact that the proposed intervention in Article 169 of the Public Prosecutor's Act is merely its upgrade, which, as such, represents a correlation correction to the law of persecution, the latter being one of the key guides on which general instructions are also drawn up. In addition, the policy of prosecution is also present in the essential activities of the state prosecutor's office. We therefore believe that the proposal to amend Article 169 remains not only within the framework of permissible regulation but, as such, also necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you. The word is Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The opposition parties have proposed deleting the entire Article 24, which provides for this co-signature of the Head of Public Prosecutions in the event of the dismissal of criminal charges. We have already said something in our position, but I would point to what has also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, as well as by representatives of the profession, the Prosecutor's Office. In fact, all of them have pointed out that such a provision is controversial and questionable in terms of constitutionality, so I would like to quote some of the warnings that took place on the Committee on Justice when we discussed the subject. The first says: "For reasons of legal and systemic concerns both within the current law and in relation to the procedural law and possible non-compliance with the Constitution, we are once again proposing that further consideration be given to this amendment." Second: “I believe that the proposed amendment is questionable in a number of aspects, both the constitutional aspect and the established international standards, but also, of course, the concept of the entire State Prosecutor's Office Act is being undermined.” Third: "We appreciate that the proposed provision is contrary to the system of the whole law on the independence and responsibility of the individual prosecutor for his work; and we also assess that the proposal is contrary to the principles of rule of law and international standards on the functioning and position of state prosecutors." These are statements that actually give a person something to think about and you have to ask yourself what it is. We all know that, under the Criminal Procedure Act, it is the State prosecutors who are obliged to start and prosecute, so it is their duty to withdraw from it only when it is provided for by law. The Heads of State Prosecutor's Office already have levers under existing legislation that enable them to control and to act actively so that, say, the case can be taken over by themselves or allocated to another prosecutor. The new novel is unclear and deletes the limits of responsibility between the state prosecutor and the chief prosecutor. Whatever we say — trust, mistrust, or confidence in the prosecution — this article’s dictates a lack of confidence in the role of the Attorney General. Untrustful about not doing anything on purpose, mistrust about whether or not he was based on his work; and here we are actually implementing Lenin's – trust is good, control is even better. But if it is to strengthen the trust of the people of the prosecution, I ask where are the crimes that are at risk of imprisonment for up to three years. But we're not gonna raise our trust here? What's the difference? We all know that the crimes for which prison sentences are at risk for up to three years are the most and are extremely disturbing for people. You know, if some poor guy got a 200-300-euro pension stolen, it's probably more than if someone stole a Mercedes from outside the house. And where's the concern for people's trust?Oh, my God! If we take this into account, then perhaps mistrust cannot be the reason for this change. And I wonder, my fellow Members, what is the real reason for this provision to be amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic has the floor. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Let me reiterate that the proposed amendment does not constitute a derogation from the established system. This system was already in force by Article 169 in 2011, so it has been in force for a number of years. The Constitutional Court also stated in its judgment in 2013 that, of course, there is no permissible command, prohibition or other instruction in specific cases. This does not mean, however, that internal control over the work of the State prosecutor would not be allowed in order to ensure the uniformity of prosecution and the professional regularity and efficiency of the performance of the state prosecution function. Nor does it mean that the State Prosecutor is not obliged to follow the general guidelines on law enforcement policies drawn up by the competent authority in accordance with the law. This arrangement has been in force since 2011. Let me say that the first paragraph of Article 169 did not, in fact, begin to be taken into account and implemented until 2016, when, at the initiative of the Ministry of Justice, which found that this article was not implemented, the heads of the District Attorneys' Offices adopted general instructions on those matters which they were obliged to submit in respect of the case before they concluded or issued the act. It is also very detailed in Article 90 of the Rules of Procedure as to how they should act in this case. The title already states that they are obliged to submit a draft act for review; and says that before a decision on the dropped complaint or in other cases when they take a decision, the signed draft of their act or the record of the order in the internal reminder, together with the file of the case, must be submitted to the supervisor for review. The Head shall indicate by signature on the draft and in the internal act that he has reviewed the draft or order and does not oppose it. Therefore, the registrar must not carry out the Prosecutor's order unless the Head of the case has indicated it in such a way. So the leader can now reject the signing of the State Prosecutor's Act or Order, the order in the internal reminder, because he considers that the draft or order is incomprehensible, flawed; and he makes an official note on this. At the same time, it sets out the reasons for his decision and gives guidance to the prosecutor as to how to remedy the shortcomings. According to the Code of State, it can be repeated once again, and the second time it is done, it can take over the matter and has to be assigned to someone else, or it can take over itself. And here is the legal protection afforded by the state prosecutor, who disagrees with the decision of the leader, and can submit, that is to say, a legal remedy to the State Prosecutor's Council. Once again, the provision proposed for adoption does not constitute a prohibition in specific cases, but constitutes an organisational remedy and an organisational measure on the basis of a provision which is general and abstract and covers an indefinite number of cases in which state prosecutors are also obliged, in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, to comply with general rules. And, of course, their independence is limited when the matter is taken over and not followed in accordance with the instructions of the Head of Public Prosecutions. With regard to the likelihood that matters will therefore become obsolete and that the decision-making principle will be violated within a reasonable time frame, let me say that the single law of prosecution already sets out the duty to monitor completely all cases which are dismissed, irrespective of the level of the penalty at stake, for three reasons: where the state prosecutor finds that there is no evidence of a criminal offence, that there is no reasonable suspicion or that criminality is excluded. There have been 18,000 such cases in the past year. The proposal, however, proposes that such control be carried out or that an inspection be carried out of a criminal offence for which more than three years is at risk, for only two reasons, where there is no evidence of a crime or there is no reasonable suspicion. These cases represent around 40% of all cases dismissed, which means that in this case there would be 2 000 780 cases. Since the heads of the District Attorneys' Offices of the State in 2016, 13, have already adopted general instructions on the basis of which they review the cases, for example, the District Attorney's Office reviews all cases which are ad acta, or cases which are closed, all cases in which the Prosecutor or the Prosecutor makes a written statement of withdrawal from prosecution, all cases in which the Prosecutor, the Prosecutor, submits an indictment without an application for a criminal order. For example, the Second District Attorney's Office has 7 of these types of crimes, and the following are 9, possibly for the Special Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, one copy must be made available to the Chief of Public Prosecutions, before the decision is taken, so that one copy is made available to the Office of the Head, i.e. because of offences of abuse of position or trust in economic activity under Article 240 and other offences committed against banks in which the perpetrator performed a managerial or supervisory function; and it is prescribed to what extent. In short, on the basis of the general instructions, the whole lot is already listed by the District State Prosecutors, which cases must be brought for review. So it is a fully established practice, which is now in force; and in no way interferes with the independence of the state prosecutor's office, and the leader is also responsible and responsible for the expertise and regularity of the decision of the state prosecutor, and also for the timely resolution of cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Vice-President of the National Assembly. I must admit that, having listened in detail to the introductory presentations of the parliamentary groups, it is clear that the opposition parliamentary groups are conditional on the adoption of the proposed amendment to the Prosecutor's Act by deleting the 24th article, which is bound, as has already been said several times, into Article 169 of that Act. It understands this decision, which gives a message that the work of state prosecutors is excellent and does not need to introduce into the Slovenian legal order a European regulation relating to work or the field of prosecution. Here I am specifically referring to – a European public prosecutor who, after this amendment of the law, would be given certain powers in the Republic of Slovenia in two segments. Firstly, he could appear directly before the Slovenian courts and could take over the prosecution from the Slovenian State Prosecutor's Office. Perhaps this is the reason why some segments of individual changes are being sought, referring primarily to the independence of the prosecutor's work, so that it would not have any impact from abroad, which would most likely have had a different impact on the various processes of prosecution of perpetrators of crimes, economic crime, financial crime in one way or another. The fact is, in this part, I could also explain that the opposition, which refers to the deletion of this Article 24 and the perpetuation of the grounds for the indiscretion of state prosecutors so as not to make any changes; I must admit that I am firmly resisting this and I am against this kind of thinking, because changes in the functioning of the prosecution are necessary and, however we are already looking at them. The fact is that all such activities are changes only within the framework of the prosecution. The political debate has already repeatedly called for policy to have an impact on the work of the prosecution in one way or another. Complete translation into the political debate. I am obliged to be more specific because it is not always good to be just a political debate and a justification for one or the other. Why is my determination to make changes in this article 24 necessary? Surely my thinking is based on a joint report on the work of state prosecutors for 2019, signed by the Attorney General. I'm not going to go into anything but the part where there's talk of rejection. And one piece. The common area of rejected complaints against adults is 63%, and what I see — at least personally — is even more pressing and necessary to intervene slightly in different processes is the decision of the complaints against legal persons. It follows from this report that in 2019 state prosecutors dropped complaints against a thousand 15 legal persons, i.e. 86 %. If this is not enough to somehow need to be changed in this context, not only in the political debate, but also in the context of the rejection of complaints, then I do not know what else we need. The fact is that these figures in the 2019 Joint Annual Report, as it were said, are speaking enough in themselves or are forcing us to make a difference in the area of complaints and their expulsions. It is therefore right to make a slightly different arrangement for discarding, in a way that is more responsible, if I may say so, for individual decisions. This is precisely what Article 24, which was tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups with the amendment, sets out. Several times in the debate, it was mentioned that the legal and legal service opposed this. I must admit that I do not know how much those who justify or explain this have read the position of the Law-Legal Service in detail and in substance. I do not want to politicise with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, to which I have a great deal of respect, and I also appreciate their position and opinions, but sometimes I also have doubts as a Member. In this part, too, I will touch on the position of the Legal and Legislative Service, because somehow the opposition is explaining in this context how the Legal and Legal Service is against, that I may not even say that what matters are unconstitutional. The fact is, the Law-Legal Service has touched on the so-called co-signature, and it has already been in the current debate, and even in the presentation of much of this, I will not repeat. Maybe a little further. With regard to this co-signature, the Law-Legal Service says that somehow this is a new institute that should be further explored. Their position is legitimate. However, this co-signature was already known in the section of the Prosecutor's Office and also established in the early 2004 period when the State Prosecutor's Council adopted such instructions. This means that it is not exactly as it is then in the interpretation of individual Members. And if I continue to do so, the fact is that the Legislative and Legal Service only expresses its concerns about such types, in this case a new institute or a further discussion of the case where a penalty of 8 years or more is provided for the prosecution of criminal offences. And if I conclude in this part, the Legislative and Legal Service merely refers to a possible additional examination of an individual institution, not an explicit objection, as regards such proposals of the Prosecutor's Law. This is my humble opinion, and in this regard I can continue to talk or debate. And if I now return or touch this 24th article, about which the speech is always related to 169. The implementation of the provisions of Article 169 has in practice shown, and is also recognised by the prosecution itself, that that provision was not understood by most state prosecutors in the way that one was drafted at the time of the adoption of the Public Prosecutor's Act. Within the functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office, they themselves found that it was not uniform. For this reason, we also have such a gap in the rejection of individual cases by various state prosecutors in the Republic of Slovenia. And the fact is that what is proposed amendments is primarily aimed at regulating the issue in the way that the effectiveness and uniformity of prosecution and the unification of the conduct of the state prosecutor's office in the whole country of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I hope that I will not abuse the Attorney-General or the Attorney-General in the same debate, in the same debate, he has also pointed out that his primary task is to make this happen in due course. And that's how I explain to myself and watch as far as this kind of change is concerned. But a few more words, given that there has been a lot of talk by the opposition, that these are approaches, where the so-called political influence is almost possible, which has no connection to the work of the individual state prosecutor. Is the signature of the Head of State's Attorney new? I've already mentioned something. Is the news just an expression of this signature? And does the Institute of Co-signature interfere with the Prosecutor's independence? The fact is that this raises issues in these so-called political debates. And, as it is said, at the time of the adoption, when we are speaking in 2011, the Public Prosecutor's Office adopted a concept of greater centralisation at the level, attention, coordination, direction and supervision. This is said already within the system of action of state prosecutors, somehow this concept wanted to be highlighted. I'm also talking about surveillance, and it's not interfering with any of the independence of the state's attorneys. The fact is, in the decisions of the Attorney General on a specific case - as it is said and I think there is no dilemma here - is not allowed to interfere, except with general instructions and the taking of the case. The general guidelines, which everyone sees and understands differently in this political debate, are an instrument in the leader's domain, in which case the Head of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which can thus take care of the uniform application of laws and the direction or alignment of law enforcement policies. Taking over the matter is also the responsibility of the leader, whether we are aware of it or not. Whether we are talking about a leader in the prosecution, any other association or legal person; these are things that are under the authority of the leader, and you find it very difficult to challenge. The fact is that the leader can take up a case on his own, if I am here on the prosecution, or a task assigned to the prosecution; or that case or task can be assigned to another state prosecutor. These are the processes that I consider that there can be no dispute at any point, that we can even discuss whether the specific state prosecutor in a particular case is independent in his work and tasks. I will make a few words, however, about when there has been a speech on how this bill is now being proposed, and that this article 24 is controversial as far as these so-called co-signatures are concerned. I mentioned that the State Prosecutor's Order knew the co-signature in 2004 and that the signature established or directed it, I will take very concretely: “In the case of decisions on rejection, on the withdrawal of prosecution, on the withdrawal of a complaint or on the decision not to lodge a complaint, and on the decision to declare the case resolved and archived, the Head of Public Prosecutions will also sign in the diary or, under his authority, another state prosecutor.” What do we find now? Nothing at all! If I continue with the references in the 2004 State Prosecutor's Order, I am referring to matters of particular importance, “the sea of the State Prosecutor in these cases before the decision to dismiss the complaint, to withdraw the prosecution, to withdraw the complaint or to decide not to lodge the complaint, and to decide that the matter should be marked as a solved, draft of its act, or to submit a record of the order in the diary”, attention shall be given to the “view of the Head of the State Prosecutor's Office”. Your Honor, nothing new. It is a fact that they themselves find that in certain areas something needs to change if more effective prosecution of perpetrators of crimes is to be sought, while unifying the work of the prosecutions in the Republic of Slovenia. What has already been done, however, obviously this purpose has simply not been implemented in practice. What was already mentioned by Kaloh’s colleague was most likely to be heard – what is now the essence of such a proposal, which does not affect the independence of a specific state prosecutor. And I'm going to repeat it a little bit for a better understanding. The State Prosecutor must submit a draft of this act to the Head of State's Attorney for a criminal offence which has been prescribed in the law for more than three years before the appeal is dropped, which is now proposed and introduced, if it is accepted. Thus, this does not mean anything other than that it is stipulated at the legal level — but here I would really like to draw your attention, respectable — to the obligior nature of such action in the event of the rejection of criminal charges. Say and write, if I say very kindly, this has been only an opportunity so far, and after this proposal it would be an obligation. And there's nothing about the state's attorney's independence. The fact is that the aim of this proposal, as has already been said several times, is to harmonise the conduct of state prosecutors and maintain the role of the Chief Prosecutor in organisational and operational coordination and ensure uniform enforcement. I hope that this was understandable enough that this argument is still in place and – I will repeat – in no way interferes with the independence of state prosecutors. However, what I was missing mainly from the opposition's argument, explaining that no one touched on the 2018 European Prosecutors' Advisory Council recommendation. I myself firmly believe that these recommendations are very well known by Slovenian state prosecutors, especially leaders or management structures. I will only read a few indents because this recommendation is binding on Slovenian state prosecutors in one way or another. This is about the foreign and internal independence of prosecutors, but there is more talk of neuroindependence. “Inside independence does not mean that every prosecutor can do anything.” I'm not going to read any more. That's another thing. “The internal independence does not prevent the hierarchical organisation of the prosecution and the issuing of general recommendations or guidelines on the application of the law to ensure consistency of legislation and law. All internal instructions within the framework of the Prosecutor's Office shall be written, transparent and shall seek to find the truth and the proper functioning of the justice system.” And here is what has been exposed several times in the debate so far that it can be quite a stumbling block. “If the Prosecutor receives individual instructions from his hierarchical structure that appear to be illegal or not in conformity with the professional ethical code, he must not be compelled to follow these instructions, he must have the opportunity to present his reasons in this hierarchical structure.” Your Honor, this is the functioning of the system within an entity and it is very difficult for me to accept any indication of the so-called political influence. Anyone can complain about the so-called State Prosecutor's Council. And that's it. “A clear mechanism must be put in place to enable prosecutors to lodge a complaint at a lower level against the orders or instructions of the Chief Prosecutors if they consider these orders or instructions to be illegal or unfounded.” I think that's what this is all about. If I finish this slowly. It is clear from this that the proposed amendment does not affect independence, but I will also add — independence, not just the independence of the prosecution, because these recommendations already mention the tasks or instructions that are internally directed to state prosecutors, who, if I may say so, carry out operational tasks; and these are the submission of an indictment or a direct indictment. And second, more to the so-called serious crimes, the proposal to the investigating judge to give consent to the filing of a direct indictment, of course, by the prosecution. I must admit that it would be difficult to add anything to this, but I firmly believe that such a change is also necessary. As has been said in the Group of Members, I personally strongly support this change, and I believe that in the political debate, at least by some opposition Members, it is not right to ignore this important segment, because within the State Prosecutor's Office they are independent. However, they themselves note that certain changes are needed precisely because of the fact that the annual report - I do not speak for 2020 - I speak more about the annual report for 2021 - it will not happen that we still have more than 80% of the dropped criminal charges in the area of economic crime related to legal persons. I think that's enough. Previously, so-called financial, economic crime has been limited, as is the case — these so-called big singing cases or old age or things have been thrown out. I think it's high time something changed on these segments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u39	Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Dušan Verbič showed very analytically what the novel of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office is bringing; I will be a little shorter myself. I absolutely agree with his conclusions, but we probably all agree in this Chamber that confidence in the rule of law in Slovenia is extremely low, among the lowest in the European Union; and this is a well-known fact for a very long time. But a positive, optimistic message – the last research done in the European Union shows that confidence in the justice system is slowly being raised in Slovenia. In a few years, I would be happy if we could achieve the confidence that citizens and citizens have in the justice system, say, Denmark, neighbouring Austria, and Finland, for example, Sweden. But now specifically to the novel. Slovenian justice has been facing the problem of increasing the proportion of rejected complaints for a long time. We're talking about rejections. The average rate of rejected complaints increased by more than 56 % from 2005 to last year. In 2005, it was still 39% and last year it was 61%. My colleague and colleagues, in these measurements, we certainly cannot say simply a statistical error. Such a high proportion of rejected complaints raises a legitimate question as to whether in our country the competent authorities prosecute crimes sufficiently aggressively and consistently. With such information, it is difficult to remain passive. Politics must take urgent action, not just to observe. This is our task, and I think that we are doing at least one part of this task in a good way today. The question of the high part of the rejection of complaints in Nova Slovenije has been pointed out for some time. Among other things, we have addressed this issue with special attention in our last election programme in 2018. And now with this law we answer this issue. We are aware that every prosecutor is bound by the principle of the legality of prosecution. This means that every prosecutor is obliged to initiate and prosecute any offence that is prosecuted under official responsibility. Therefore, any unjustified decision to dismiss the complaint at the same time constitutes a violation of one of the fundamental principles of criminal procedural law. The proposal for a novel that we are considering brings into law the incorporation of a stronger security guard, which we want to prevent the country from unwarrantedly moving away from the pursuit of worse crimes. Worse crimes. The final decision to dismiss an accusation of worse crimes will not be taken by every prosecutor on his own. The Head of Public Prosecutions will have to review any such decision and, of course, sign a draft discard act. I estimate that we will be able to contribute to a more unified and consistent prosecution of worse crimes. The fact that the Head of Public Prosecutions will have to be informed of the drop-off act cannot constitute an intervention in the independence of the Prosecutor. Even today, the law regulates the so-called institute of taking over cases in which the head of the District Attorney's Office can take up a case on his own. The novelty is only about strengthening cooperation and more intensive involvement of the Head of Public Prosecutions in the decision to dismiss important cases. I believe that the proposed solution will also contribute to a more unified approach to the handling of complaints. The rate of dismissed complaints varies considerably between the District Public Prosecutors' Offices and has been fluctuating between 49 and 68 % for years. Here too, colleagues and colleagues, we cannot talk just about some statistical error. Finally, the proposal for a law also brings an end to the irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors in the area of preparedness and on-call within the State Prosecutor's Office. This is also an important content of this novel of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Members of the New Slovenia amendment of the opposition, which proposes that paragraph 24 be deleted, will not be supported. As we have already announced, we will support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u41	The text is by the representative of the proposer, State Secretary Zlatko Ratej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Let me point out once again that the Constitutional Court has already said that internal control is permissible, so we believe that the proposed amendment does not affect the independence of state prosecutors. With regard to independence, the Constitutional Court has pointed out that the State Prosecutor must, in concrete proceedings, respect the principle of equality before the law referred to in Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, based on the policy of prosecution of perpetrators of crimes, as laid down within the organisation of state prosecutors. This does not mean, therefore, that internal control over the work of the State prosecutor would not be allowed in order to ensure the uniformity of prosecution and the professional regularity and efficiency of the execution of the state prosecution function. Nor does it mean that the Attorney General is not obliged to follow the general guidelines on law enforcement policy. The purpose of the proposed novel is to maintain the autonomy of state prosecutors, which is already provided for in Article 3 of the State Prosecutor's Act. There is also a second paragraph concerning the exercise of the independence of state prosecutors, which also provides for exceptions. This means that the current regime provides for the views of the Heads of State Prosecutors in the general instructions in accordance with Article 169 of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, in accordance with this second paragraph. Our proposal is without prejudice to any decision. Today we only talk about mandatory insights and nothing else. So it's just an organizational norm. Everything else remains, as is already the case in the current law, and does not represent any deviation from the purpose of the law adopted in 2011. What we have now determined is that we have raised the rule of the State Prosecutor's Order to the legal level. It is said that this view is marked because, for example, it is not foreseen at the legal level, and this is the only one that represents a derogation from the current regime. I would point out, however, that these views are already taking place on the basis of the general guidelines adopted by the Head of State Prosecutors. These insights according to our data are based on instructions adopted by all state prosecutors. The current proposal relates only to the national situation, that is discarding. It is said that the circumstances arising from the procedural decision of each state prosecutor. The current guidelines, however, provide for insights essentially into any decision taken by each state prosecutor. Once again, I would like to make it clear that this arrangement does not affect our independence but only provides for additional leverage for the heads of state prosecutors. We are aware that the trend of rejection of complaints is increasing. The current levers available to prosecutors are not sufficient or strong enough. It is an upgrade to the current regime, an organisational measure which is primarily intended to take into account guidelines for the uniform and effective implementation of criminal prosecution. This also achieves the same level of legal predictability and thus the legal security of every individual in the country. The decision, as it has been so far, on a specific case shall be taken by the Prosecutor of State and shall be made by the Registrar with a view to ensuring uniformity and effectiveness of the prosecution. Let me point out that, already under the current regime, state prosecutors must inform the leader of the situation and the resolution of particularly important and challenging cases, indicating the measures taken and planned. All of this is practically already the practice of guides or should be the practice of guides, which must take into account the policy of prosecution when establishing the criteria for the effectiveness of prosecutions by state prosecutors. The Head of State Prosecutor's Office is responsible for the professional correctness and timeliness of the conduct of the State Prosecutor's Office, and should also ensure that the expected time of resolution of the matter is not exceeded. Such dynamics and the organisation of the work process can also be ensured through other organisational measures, so as not to give rise to delays for this reason. We are talking about a smaller proportion of cases, but at the same time it is a worse crime where the decision of the Attorney General must be fully weighed. Let me also mention that, according to the Committee of Ministers, the Council of Europe has also recognized, as an acceptable lever for the effectiveness of prosecution, the external, immediate supervision of the judiciary over the decisions of prosecutors. Therefore, our proposed legal solution to strengthen the effectiveness and unity of prosecution has remained within the legal and constitutional framework and within the framework of the State Prosecutor's Office, as it strengthens the leadership's position. Of course, the challenges for the state prosecutor's office remain, and everything will not be solved by laws and by-laws. Here comes the commitment to the profession of the State Prosecutor's Office, the management of the mission to work for the benefit of our society and to protect our rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u43	Anybody else want to discuss this? The proposer, Minister Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you. Your Honor, I listened very carefully to today's debate. As I have suggested in my view, today we would stress the very good work of the State Prosecutor's Office, as well as of the Attorney-General's Office and all the leaders who are carefully pursuing a uniform policy of persecution with a number of organisational measures in order to ensure the protection of our rights, we have unfortunately highlighted the weakness that has emerged; and of course I have also paid attention to just one segment. But the fact is, as Justice Minister, I have to be critical when we find such shortcomings. However, let me take this opportunity to say that the results on the functioning of the 2019 State Prosecutor's Office speak for themselves and tell you how well they perform their task. Just a few points. We note that, in 2019, the crash was resolved in 102 %, so that despite the increase in criminal charges, they reduced the number of pending cases by 1%, in order to increase the number of settlement procedures as well as the fines imposed, as well as convictions. However, the number of conditional penalties has been reduced, which we know to be the problem in the mere imposition of sentences. With regard to convictions, 87%. This means that their work is extremely quality. Nine thousand 169 people were convicted, and in a thousand 593 cases a prison sentence was imposed and in a thousand 36 cases a fine was imposed, i.e. an increase of 33% and a reduction in contingent convictions. However, in order to pay great attention to the worst crimes, it proves that the confiscation of property benefits was made in 69 judgments in 2019, the value of secured assets was 182 million, and the amount of unjustifiably acquired assets was 262 million. On the basis of the PDONI, 8 new financial investigations were launched against 26 persons this year. This is over €2 million. At the end of 2019, EUR 4 million of insurance was allocated and three civil actions against 18 persons were brought. So, like I said, the results speak for themselves. And as the Secretary of State has already said, in this work, their awareness is at the forefront of their work, their affiliation to carry out their duties as their mission; and in particular their awareness that they are at the service of our society and that they are protecting our rights, for which I thank them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u45	Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is a second defence bill on amendments to the Defence Act, a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister for the Defence of Magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u46	Dear Vice-Presidents and Members of Parliament, you are most welcome! The amendment to the Defence Act, which is before you today, regulates the status of soldiers after 45 years. This law also guarantees the social security of soldiers after 45 years. Of course, at the Ministry of Defence, we want young soldiers, we want young armies; we are aware that we are responsible for all those who have served in the country for many years; we are members of the Slovenian Army; and that after they have reached 45 years of age, we need to take care of them and provide them with social security. How do we provide for social security under this law on defence? In two ways. One thing is that those who occupy deficit formations, or special specialists who are needed, can continue to do their work even when they are 45 years old. For all others, it is envisaged that they will be able to re-engage with other government authorities in order to transfer wage classes with them. As an interesting thing to say, when I was getting information on how, say, pay grade cuts to soldiers who were too busy in other state bodies. For example, a soldier who was overworked in 2011 was in the 31st grade as a soldier, then in the 21st grade, so due to his overemployment he fell by 10 pay grade. For example, a soldier who was too busy in 2012 fell from the 24th to the 14th grade. I can go to a slightly newer period and check 2015, where the soldier had a 28th salary class; when he got hired, he fell to 21, that's for 7 pay grade. This is what we want to prevent soldiers from losing part of their salary when employed by other government authorities in order to lose their paid grade. This seems fair to us, and in some ways it is imperative that this is to the very least extent a sign of gratitude, that the country recognises to them, for their service to their homeland, that they can also transfer wage classes to their new job. The debate also raised the question why we should not extend the possibilities of operation and service to all after 45 years. The answer is that because we want young soldiers, we want a young army; and that is why this is the only way to set matters straight in order to extend our activities in the Slovenian Army to those that the military urgently needs; and for all others, we provide appropriate and appropriate services; that is to say, in a way that they do not lose their personal income. There has also been an extensive debate on an article that discusses the possibility for contractual reserves to remain members of political parties. Here I must point out that there is no news, even so far there has been no verification of membership in political parties, which in some sense stems from history, even from the time when military service was compulsory, usually those who served military service have also become reserves; and it has never been checked who was a member of a political party in the reserve. However, the Constitution clearly stipulates that when it comes to professional composition, professional soldiers are not allowed to join political parties. And here too is all fear, because also the Service Act of the Slovenian Army in the special article 16 prohibits any political action within the Slovenian Army. In this way, by adopting today's law, we will all together guarantee social security, better predictability, so that I will be extremely grateful to all those Members and Members who will support this law today.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Defence Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Sam Bevk to present the report to the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! At its 10th meeting, on 9 September 2020, the Defence Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act as the working body of the State, a second consideration sent to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. No amendments were tabled in the course of business. On behalf of the applicant, the Minister for the Defence of Magi presented the introductory addition to the explanation of the draft law. Matthew Tonin, who presented the main objectives and main solutions to the bill. The basic objective of the bill is to introduce changes in the completion of the permanent composition and voluntary contractual reserve of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which will ensure the interest of candidates for employment in the Slovenian Army and for the contractual provision of military service in the Slovenian Armed Forces reserve, ensure programmed retention of personnel and stop the reduction of the Slovenian Armed Forces staff. Among the key solutions to the bill, the Minister highlighted the preservation of the rights of soldiers after 45 years of age, who, in accordance with the legislation so far, ceased their military duty. The bill allows the possibility of extending the contract of employment for soldiers even after the age of 45, thus solving the problem of the completion of deficit formational duties and maintaining them in the structure of the military with specific knowledge, which would otherwise be terminated by the employment contract after 45 years of age. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. Andreja Kurent pointed out that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the proposal of the law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and had commented on Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4. In its opinion, she cited the legal and legal arguments for which she expected the applicant to reject them with the opposite legal elements. This was not the case in this case, since the explanations and views of the Ministry of Defence are more than substantive in nature and are largely not responding to comments. Slovenian Army Chief of Staff Robert Glavas has highlighted a marked trend in the decline in the number of soldiers that has been observed in the General Staff since 2008, making it necessary to establish a system for the acquisition of new soldiers. However, a representative of the National Council Commission of State's Rajko Fajt said that the Commission supports the bill. The panellists of the coalition groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the parties of the modern centre, New Slovenia, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and the opposition Socialist Groups and the Alenka Bratušek Party expressed their support for the legal solutions; while representatives of the other opposition groups of the List of Marjan Sarca and the Left expressed their support for the bill or strongly opposed the bill. The Committee adopted its amendment to Article 1 at the proposal of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. The Committee did not adopt a proposal for amendments to the Committee of the left-wing groups and to the Sab to Article 1 and to the amendments to the Committee of the left-wing Group to Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the Law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendment is adopted is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u49	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats and Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u50	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats, we want to restore the Slovenian Army's dignity and, above all, the city it has in Slovenian society. By 2035, the White Paper on Defence, which was approved in January 2020 under the Sharčev government, foresees the target scope of the Slovenian Armed Forces of 8 000 permanent members and 2 000 contractual reserve members. Without changes to the current system of this scope of the Slovenian Armed Forces, there were 6 000 414 permanent members in 2019 and only 697, the trend in the number of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces is declining. Every year 100 new soldiers enter the Slovenian Army and 300 step out. The current government and with it New Slovenia, by means of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, wants to systematically regulate and ensure better and longer-term financial security, in particular the social security of all members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The Defence Act introduces the possibility of concluding contracts for a reserve composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces for at least one year, which is much more attractive and flexible for younger generations than the previous five years. In the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats we welcome the Ministry of Defence's wish to adapt to the basic training programme, to ensure that members of the reserve composition achieve the same level of competence as the permanent composition, while at the same time being as low as the regular work with the employer. This bill extends the set of obligations of members, ensuring that the reserve composition is more usable in peace as well. Most importantly, with the call for urgent tasks to ensure the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the reserve will maintain the right to leave work and maintain the level of salary it receives from the employer. Now we have the absurdity that a person who is willing to be a reserve in the Slovenian Army will consciously decide that he will be able to receive a lower salary than he has in regular service. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are most proud of the initiative, which saves the financial and social security of all members and members of the Slovenian Army after 45 years. Now members and members of the Slovenian Army were in an unenviable position when they were 45 years old and gave Slovenia their best years. These proud members and members, who have served their country for 18 years on average, also lost 10 salary classes or 500 gross when moving to another job. This is extremely insidious for young people who are still deciding on the profession of soldier, as well as for those who are already in the Slovenian Army and are thinking about what will happen to them after 45 years. Many soldiers who have a family were unable to afford it and were forced to break up the working relationship with the Slovenian Army on their own. The amended Defence Act will therefore eliminate this anomaly, which constituted an insult to the Slovenian soldier. It foresees that, after an additional 45 years, the soldier will retain the number of wage classes if assigned to another post at the Ministry or another state authority. If the soldier received a lower basic salary after the transfer, the Ministry of Defence would pay him the difference to the amount of the basic salary he received until the distribution. Yesterday we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the adoption of constitutional amendments. With them we abolished many Yugoslav federal regulations and allowed our boys to serve military service in their own, Slovenian Territorial Defence. The necessary amendments, which were adopted by a large majority, were crucial for the development of the Slovenian Army. Today in Novi Slovenija we believe that the Law on Defence is essential for the preservation of the Slovenian Army. That is why we are even more pleased that two-thirds of the support is promised after a decade of unsuccessful attempts to amend the Defence Act this time. This will bring parties of different political beliefs together for the benefit of the Slovenian soldier and the Slovenian Army. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence with great joy, because with this we will return the Slovenian Army to the future and the city it faces in Slovenian society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u52	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act amends three existing articles governing three key novelties, such as the regulation of the status of soldiers after 45 years of age, and introduces salaries equivalent to their salaries in the service where they work and renews the framework for basic military training. Recall that after the present law, soldiers can carry out their ministry only until the age of 45. Thus, soldiers are the only ones in the public sector who receive only a fixed-term contract when they are employed and cannot count on a fixed-term job. The proposed legal solutions therefore provide for more options. Soldiers with the special skills that the military urgently needs and those who cover the deficit positions in the military, but who themselves meet the psychophysical requirements laid down, could remain in the military even after the age of 45. Others who do not need them in the military would be employed within the public sector, while maintaining the basic salary and all the progress achieved so far. Soldiers could either be employed within the Ministry of Defence to protect military facilities of particular importance, allowing them to relax these duties daily after more than a hundred young soldiers. The second option is to be employed by the police, among law enforcement officers or elsewhere. In the SAB party, we believe that most soldiers are in good physical and psychological condition at age 45, so we think it is right to relocate these soldiers to the same or other employment sector, given the need of individual ministries. In the SAB Group, we support the fact that soldiers will now be able to conclude contracts for one year, which has been possible only in five-year contracts. This will result in greater interest for new members of the soldiers, reservists and will strengthen the already undernourished Slovenian Army. In the SAB Group, we object that the smallest possibility for members of the so-called guard to join the Slovenian Army as soldiers of the reserve would be to sign an amendment that was not adopted at the meeting of the mother's working body; we have proposed that members of the Slovenian Army reserve should not be members of any political party. With this amendment, we wanted to prevent that members of the guards who, in masked uniforms at state borders, participate in illegal hunting for refugees could become soldiers reserve. The amendment of the Defence Act requires two-thirds of the support of Members present. In the SAB Group, we only want the best for Slovenia and the Slovenian soldiers, so we will mention the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act as it is a matter of social regulation of the status of our soldiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u53	The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Minister with the experts! We can probably agree that the basis for ensuring the security and sovereignty of our country is in an appropriate and regulated defence system. We need a sufficient number of trained members and we need adequate equipment to maintain the security of us, citizens and citizens and our territory. The Defence Act has been on the benches of the National Assembly a number of times, but in the light of our awareness of how much we accept it and how it deals with it, we pay even more attention. Finally, the proposed solutions must be professional, necessary and prepared in the broadest possible social consensus. The two-thirds majority in our parliamentary system is not easy to achieve, which of course we welcome. The Defence Act, which has passed the first sieve of the necessary majority on the Defence Committee, regulates three important sets. In addition to the renewal of the framework for basic military training and the conclusion of military service contracts in reserve for at least one year, the most important area is certainly the regulation of the status of professional soldiers and soldiers after 45 years of age. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the importance of social security and thus strive to ensure adequate conditions for all people and people of Slovenia. Surely a soldier who serves his country more than half his active working age and is skilled at his work, at only 45 years he simply cannot become redundant overnight and so forced to leave the Slovenian Army. We therefore welcome the solution offered, this is the extension of employment contracts, of course meeting all the necessary conditions and the possibility of relocation at the Ministry or another state authority. The message to current members and young people who are just deciding to have their status regulated after the age of 45 is of such importance. We have heard many times that the shortage of soldiers is caused either by concern about what will happen to them when they reach this age limit, or by years of savings in the defence area. In this brief period, we have thus taken a stand in both pressing problems. We are trying to regulate social status and thus motivate individuals to recognize the importance of serving their country as members of a voluntary contractual reserve or permanent composition, as well as to improve the picture in the field of modernisation by adopting the Law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army. The changes ahead of us will certainly not give results overnight, but we need to start somewhere. As responsible representatives of the legislative branch of government, we must look to solutions that will improve social security, and, finally, the profession of soldiers deserves it. In the Desus Group, we will, of course, support the draft law on amendments and additions to the Defence Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u55	The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u56	Nice greetings to all present in the Chamber, especially to the Minister with his team! Today's law solves problems in the Slovenian Army, which has been going on for years. The applicant wishes to increase the direct interest in the contractual performance of military service in a permanent and also in the reserve. On the one hand, solutions need to be found to recruit new soldiers into the Slovenian Army and on the other hand to find solutions to ensure social security for soldiers when they are 45 years old. We believe that legislative solutions are correct because they offer solutions both by entering the Slovenian Army and in relation to the situation in the later life of the soldier. We strongly support the strategy of the Head of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces that it is necessary to work and do everything on an individual who comes into the system as a candidate in order to achieve the criteria that are prescribed as minimum. We also think that it is a smart solution to offer candidates the opportunity to complete their education, complete their driving test, award and other ratings. One of the measures to make the soldier's profession more interesting is, of course, investment in the Slovenian Army. With them, the military will modernise and better security will be offered to all members of the Slovenian Army. At this point, I would like to reiterate that the Ministry of Defence should work more closely with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, as there should be a much greater emphasis on patriotism during the educational process. With the value of love for our country, we would gain many soldiers in the long run. It is right that the current leadership strives to retain personnel over 45 years of age. It is the staff who are skilled in their work, and the state has invested a lot of financial resources in their knowledge and training. We believe that soldiers are still able to perform tasks within the Slovenian Army after 45 years. The age limit of 45 years has been set in quite different times than today. The psychological abilities of soldiers at 45 years of age are comparable to those of younger men. It is also a good decision to offer the soldier the possibility of redistribution within the state administration. The soldier will decide for himself whether to continue his employment in the state administration or to find a better job elsewhere. It is important that administrative obstacles are removed and the soldier has a choice. Under the line, these are people who have a high awareness of the love of their country. Such personnel must be approached by a solution that the state has not forgotten them. When the employment problem is resolved after 45 years, there is also one very strong argument as to why we should choose a military profession when we are young. In the Slovenian National Party, we still believe that compulsory military service should be introduced, as these young generations would have raised certain values. The military profession must be restored to its position in society, as it once did. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u57	The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u58	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Domesticism is a value and policy should always be based on values. Domesticism is the value of the first president of independent Slovenia, followed by all the presidents, the presidents of governments. But patriotism is a value that we realize by actions, not by words. And today is an opportunity for action. The Slovenian army is a pillar of statehood and we need it. What the world is like today, it simply says some numbers. By 31 August, there were 10 thousand 223 illegal migrants in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia following a break-in across the border. This is a 3.3% increase over the same period last year, when it was slightly over 9 000 800. Just a few weeks earlier, we had listened to in the National Assembly by the fairy tale opposition, how this problem has been resolved, it has been reduced, it has not been observed; and therefore it is not necessary to activate the Slovenian Army, that we do not in fact need the Slovenian Army. We need her, ladies and gentlemen. These numbers speak very clearly about the situation. And the whole story of illegal migration says something else – the equipment can only be itself. We don't need the Slovenian Army for the sake of others. Even in the past, it may have been a mistake to rely too much on the principles of collective security. Today the world is just so that you can really rely only on yourself; and that is why we need the Slovenian Army as a pillar of statehood. Not only because of the threats which are today greater and more pronounced than they have ever been since the independence of Slovenia, but also because of all other tasks that the Slovenian Army has successfully performed and will continue to carry out in the future. When it comes to intervention in times of natural disasters, even when it comes to aiding the pandemic. I remember the demagogies that were also in this Parliament, why the Slovenian Army does not help when it comes to pandemics. Of course she helped. Her RKB units helped defuse the facilities, set up a mobile hospital to make a backup, if necessary, and did a lot more. We need everything. We need soldiers; soldiers who are well paid, who are adequately equipped, who need to be allowed to carry out their tasks as easily as possible – one of them, when it comes to contractual composition, is still ahead of us today – and, of course, we also need an appropriately equipped Slovenian army, which we will talk about later. All this is necessary because security is one and indivisible. Because security is a good that we only know when we lose it; and then it is extremely difficult, and in certain cases it is impossible to recover. Because you are people – Slovenes, Slovenians, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia – we deserve to live safely, to live in a state of prosperity, but it is necessary to adopt the law that is before us today, because things are governed in the right way, it goes in the right direction and represents the first step that the Slovenian Army will have to take to put back that place in the society it is going. Not only will patriotism as a value be a word, but it will be a value that we will all consistently respect in our actions. In the SDS we will vote in favour of the proposed law – for the Slovenian Army, for the security of people, for our country Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u59	The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u60	Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We are actively involved in solving the problems of the defence system, including the status of soldiers after 45. This was followed by the government of Marjan Šarc by a confirmation of the white book on defence, with 45 million additional money for defence – the current government almost completely took them away from the defence budget this year – and with concrete financial incentives to extend employment contracts for about 3,000 soldiers. It maintained the employment of soldiers within the Ministry of Defence even after 45 years, adopted a decision on the transfer of wage classes for the transfer of soldiers to another body, and agreed with other authorities on the possibility of re-employment of soldiers to them, taking into account the basic rule – equal pay for equal work. All this, without changing the Defence Act. These are concrete solutions that could be upgraded in dialogue with professionals and trade unions. Can soldiers really hope for more social security after 45 years? In three defense unions, they're sure as hell not. When the Minister knocks on the conscience of the Members that we will blame little not for the collapse of the Slovenian Army, if we do not support his ideas without reservations, the unions have called upon us, Members of the National Assembly, to reconsider the changes in defence legislation. Dear Secretary of Defense, in a quick-moving rage, you have completely bypassed the dialogue with the unions. That is why this proposal is quick and professional, we assess the poorly prepared document and we see it more than your personal promotion, respected minister. It does not ensure more successful acquisition of new personnel in the Slovenian Army, the solutions you are proposing, including deep, deep, affect the Public Sector Wage System Act. The proposed changes are not in line with other professions and public sector activities, and this shift leads to a potential breakdown of the single pay system. And that's not all. The profession, both inside and outside the defence system, warns that the proposed solutions actually simplify the existing conditions for the performance of the contractual military service and open the door to individuals who do not meet the current psychophysical criteria. What does this lowering of standards mean for the further development of the army? Or they may not secretly open their doors to members of various paramilitary structures, as the minister suggested at his own hearing. How else can we explain a provision allowing the parties to join political parties? This should be totally unacceptable for all political parties, for all citizens and citizens. And this has also proved so quiet in the amendments to the law, since the minister did not mention this at the time of presentation, at least not in the Marjan Šarc Group. The basis for the operation of each functional defence system shall be adequate financial, human resources and material resources. The proposed amendments, the Minister, do not guarantee this, were written in haste, without reflection, without dialogue; even with those to whom the law is intended. Therefore, in the List of Marjan Šarca, we believe that the best, defence minister and all political parties would be to simply reject the proposed amendments to the Defence Act in the National Assembly, because we believe that it is imperative to engage in discussions with all stakeholders and to design solutions that will actually aim at improving the existing situation. Since this is unlikely to happen, we will not oppose marriage in the final phase in the letter of Marjan Šarc. As proposed, we cannot support and thus take responsibility for its consequences, which I have discussed in more detail in the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u61	The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented only by Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The proposed amendments and additions to the Defence Act relate to improving the conditions for the completion of the permanent and spare composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In the last eleven years, the number of members of one and the other composition has been decreasing due to the age structure on the one hand and, on the other hand, the irregular status of soldiers after 45 years of age. During the time of professional employment, the Slovenian army allows members and members to receive many years of education and training. The knowledge acquired within the military is specific and difficult to replace, especially at a time when the interest in entering the professional army is becoming less and less. Social Democrats believe that the changes and additions to the Defence Act can have a positive impact not only on members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, who are 45 years old and older, but also on young people. In fact, young generations will help, because when young people decide on their next career, when they seek their first job, they will know that they are taken care of after 45 years of age if they choose to serve professionally in the Slovenian Army. Thus, their social security will be less uncertain and will make it easier for them to plan their professional and private journey. We must not forget that in addition to the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army, the contractual reserve is being reduced. The proposed amendment also regulates the position of the contractual members of the Slovenian Armed Forces reserve. For the members of the contractual reserve, basic military training will be adapted in order to minimise the absence of regular work from the employer. The solutions are also aimed at involving individuals with special civilian skills in the Slovenian Armed Forces' contractual reserve, which means, inter alia, that when called upon to carry out tasks in the Slovenian Army, they transfer knowledge from the civilian environment and significantly support the functioning of the units. It is also a step forward that employers of reserve members should not be placed in a less favourable position as a result of their service in the reserve. I think it is worth recalling here that we discussed similar solutions already in 2017 when we discussed the new Defence Act. Unfortunately, it was not the political will to adopt the law at that time. We've lost three years. Today, we could weigh whether the proposed solutions from 2017 have yielded the expected results; not only in the field of concern for employees in the Slovenian Army after 45 years, but also some other important solutions that were proposed at the time and were addressed in the wider section. Your Honor! Yes, among young people there is no interest in the military profession. So we've been detecting the reasons? Is it true that the reasons are only in the irregular status of a soldier after 45 years? Maybe there are reasons on the policy side; because of narrow political interests and selfish party policy. The Slovenian army and its members and members represent the defence force of the Republic of Slovenia. It shall carry out military defence on its own or in cooperation with the Alliance on the basis of international treaties. But let us not forget that we can rely on the support of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces when dealing with natural disasters. Social Democrats will support the bill with the desire to open a new chapter in employment in the Slovenian Army and regulate the status of soldiers after 45 years of age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u64	Your Honor! During the last period in Slovenia, we are facing numerous natural disasters of a greater magnitude. On the other hand, the international environment is becoming increasingly unstable. Today, wars and terrorist acts pose a constant threat to world peace. All of this requires the establishment of a modern military system that will be responsive, flexible and highly trained. Therefore, in the Modern Centre Party, we are aware of the need to complement the fundamental strategic, developmental and regulatory arrangements in the defence field. At the same time, we are committed to the consistent implementation of the career paths of members of the Slovenian Army. We need to provide them with adequate social and material security. The financial and economic crisis triggered the stagnation in development, the reduction of preparedness and the negative staffing trends in the Slovenian Army. The lack of development resources and personnel is also reflected in very poor and negative estimates for action in the crisis or war. The trend in the reduction of defence expenditure was halted when the Government of the Modern Centre Party adopted a decision on a continuous increase in defence resources in the next medium term. At that time, the defence expenditure of the Republic of Slovenia increased by EUR 100 million. However, the salaries of the soldiers increased by more than 30%. This helped to improve the status of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The path in this direction is also today a defence proposal for the new Defence Act. We are newly favored in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre because it brings three key news. First, social security for soldiers even after the age of 45. Secondly, for members of the contract reserve, the novel introduces salaries equivalent to their current salary in the current service. Thirdly, the novel also renews the framework for basic military training, which may take less than three months after the new one. The human resources issue in the Slovenian Army is indeed very difficult, as is evident from the following data. The number of members of the permanent composition has declined since 2012, on average for more than 100 members per year. In 2011, 7 000 567 permanent members were employed in the Slovenian Army, and in July this year only 6 000 321. Similar trends exist in contractual reserves. We must be aware that, in addition to the social and material security of soldiers, modern equipment, uniforms, weapons and appropriate infrastructure and logistical capacity must also be provided. The solution is proposed by the Government in the amendment to the Defence Act and the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army. We are convinced that such measures would motivate young people for the profession of Slovenian soldier and stabilise negative trends in the Slovenian Army. To this end, the novel also introduces the possibility of basic training of less than three months. This would allow future students to undertake basic military training during the holidays after finishing high school and then join the contractual reserve or work in the Slovenian Army as professional soldiers. Novela also solves the problem of ageing staff in the Slovenian Army. A supplement is proposed, with which even after 45 years of age, soldiers with specialized knowledge could continue their work in the Slovenian Army. They also want to retain other members who could be redeployed to protect sites of special defence importance; and this would relieve younger soldiers. This category of soldiers could also be redeployed to the post of police officer of the state border or judicial officer. They will also have the possibility of deploying to the relevant posts at the Ministry of Defence or other state bodies, while retaining the number of wage classes achieved. To conclude, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that the profession of the soldier could be made more attractive also with additional material benefits for members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, such as the favourable rental of apartments, the supplement for availability, special cash awards at the annual level, the protection of children, financial compensation for the performance of tasks outside the working time, the purchase of certain goods without tax, the reduction of the required level of education for employment in the Slovenian Army and similar other solutions. For all the reasons mentioned above, we will support the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u65	The position of the Left Group will be presented by Matthew Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm a good-bye! In Levica, we have always supported efforts to improve the social status of soldiers after 45 years; but the law we are considering today does not do so, as the proponents say. All this law does is that, already as discriminatory as a provision, by which soldiers and soldiers should not be employed in the military for longer than the age of 45, it adds new dimensions and destroys the system of salaries of public servants. It is even more worrying that he was prepared and coordinated over those most affected – employees in the Slovenian Army. Thus, the Ministry did not discuss and establish a social dialogue with the military unions, the Defence Union, the Military Union, defence and protection, the Union of Pilots of the Ministry of Defence. And look, these unions are against the law. The age limit for military service up to a maximum of 45 years was introduced in 1994. Even then, this meant double discrimination against members and members of the Slovenian Army with military acts. For the first time, this meant discrimination within the acts themselves, since persons employed before 1994 had the possibility of carrying out military service up to the fulfilled conditions for retirement; and for those employed after that date, no later than 45 years. It is discrimination, which is present today in the ranks of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Secondly, this meant discrimination against employees in sub- and under-staff actions that may in any case remain in the military until retirement. Thus, better paid acts in the Slovenian Army have also been provided with greater social security, irrespective of whether they carry out similar tasks. And if I do a little cartooning, two of these people can sit on the same assignment in the same vehicle; one of them will have to leave when he is 45 years old and the other will be able to work further. Thus, the age limit of 45 years does not have any professional basis, but is based on stereotypes that soldiers must be young and that older persons do not belong in the military. And instead of removing this senseless and discriminatory restriction, as we have also proposed for the committee in Levica, the law that we are considering today does exactly the opposite – it introduces new dimensions of discrimination. First, within the soldiers themselves, by introducing a list of deficit formational duties that the Minister will decide on his own; thus, some members will remain in the military after 45 years and the rest will fly to the road. Secondly, within the broader context of all civil servants, by introducing the possibility of employment without invitations for soldiers and soldiers after 45 years in other jobs in the public authorities, and by allowing these soldiers to retain a higher number of classes than laid down in the law governing the public sector wage system. If the soldiers had received a basic salary lower than they had received by then, the Ministry of Defence would have paid them the difference. Thus, other civil servants would be discriminated against compared to soldiers at wage levels, even though they would do exactly the same work. This law simply undermines the system of public sector wages. And to end, a few more words about the politicization of the army. This was first pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, in its opinion, stated that by law, I quote, “without any explanation, introduces a novelty that there is no prohibition of membership in political parties for members of the reserve in the course of carrying out military service in peace”. Minister Tonin waved his hand during the Committee's hearing to ensure that the membership of the political parties for the reserve composition is not already being verified; this is therefore some consistent practice that only needs to be legalised. The Constitution makes it clear that professional members of the defence forces cannot be members of political parties. And the Slovenian Army is a professional army, it has a permanent and spare composition, and they are both professional. However, there is no ban on the recruits they would have had if they did not freeze the implementation of the call to war in 2003. These are soldiers who could be members of political parties. The law is unconstitutional, very likely to break the public sector wage system, politicise the military and only deepen the problem of soldiers after 45 years. For this reason, in Levi, we hope, above all, that everyone – for this law requires a two-thirds majority – who are in fact for the resolution of the status of soldiers after 45 years and who are against the politicization of armed forces to hear in the first place the calls of those concerned by this law, and these are soldiers and soldiers who have made it clear that they are opposed to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u67	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 September 2020. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the two amendments of the Group of Ambassadors. The text shall first be given by the representative of the proposer, Minister of Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u68	Vice President, thank you very much. This amendment speaks of the removal of the prohibition of membership in political parties. But before that, we need to put the matter a little bit into context, because otherwise we are talking dry. Maybe a few numbers first. In 2019, 111 members were professionally employed in the Slovenian Army, leaving 345, 2019. Where are we today? By 24 September, I have the latest data, 121 people had been employed in the Slovenian Army, so we had already improved the 2019 result by 10 people, and 150 members had left, which is a good result for now compared to 345 that went away last year. So we are doing everything to level this departure and arrival in the Slovenian Army by the end of the year; I hope that we will succeed. As to why this law is needed at all, how we approach it and why we need it at all, I think the message here is very clear. We need it to ensure the social security of the soldiers. Pika. We intend to do this in two different ways. One is to extend their service, and the other is to transfer them to other state authorities. By comparison, in the coming year, the age of 45 will be 63, then in 2022 - 93, 2023 - 117, and so on. In short, in the coming years this will become a very pressing problem. When some of you talk about human resources corruption or something, because the law provides that some might extend their service. Basically, due to the specificity of the military profession, we need young soldiers in particular. The army usually has soldiers between the ages of 20 and 30, and we have a much larger average age. And in order for this system to be restored, it is essential that we have this room of manoeuvre if the numbers — we hope — increase dramatically to employ older soldiers in other state bodies. We're not leaving anyone alone, but we're hiring him into other government agencies. Another interesting thing I have here today is, I've had to write down those soldiers who have so far been too busy in other civilian jobs, so I'm going to say what a fall they've had. For example, a soldier who was too busy in 2011 fell from the 31st to the 21st wage class, which is minus ten wage classes, in a specific amount of EUR 463. That's how much this soldier lost because he served his country. And to this day, until today, it's nine years old, it's gotten to the 27th pay grade. Even after nine years, he did not come to that pay grade that he had reached in 2011, and he had a contract in the army. The case in 2014; he had a 22nd pay grade, dropped to 11, minus 11 payment classes, and he knew EUR 351. I can quote other cases here, if you want, even the newer in 2018, the 28th pay grade, fell by minus 9, that's at 19, lost minus 377 euros, today in the 20th pay grade. It is evident that they are virtually unable or very difficult to get back to those payment classes that they have achieved in the military, so that I absolutely do not understand why this article would be unconstitutional to provide soldiers with only what they have achieved in their current career. I do not understand the representatives of the Left, why it would be constitutionally right for someone who serves the army for many years and we thank him at the age of 45 to hire him to another state body and to reduce his salary by 300 to 400 euros for the prize. I don't understand why this would be constitutionally acceptable; or why constitutionally it is controversial and problematic what we now propose that when he is too busy in another job, he also takes the pay grade with him. This seems perfectly logical to me in terms of equality and justice. Now we come to this famous article about these political parties and so on. So far, no political party membership has been checked for the reservists. We do not know whether or not reserve members are members of political parties. Let me say that the comparison in the police reserve is explicitly stated, is a special article in the law, which states that contractual reserve officers are not subject to restrictions on membership in political parties. And Article 42 of the Constitution clearly states that these are professional members of the defence forces and of the police who cannot be members of political parties. Reserves are not professional members, they are not professional members of the Slovenian Army. Here, we are only applying the same ratio as they have in the police, so that the status in the police is similar to that in the military. And we don't change things in any way, but they're just like they used to be. Yesterday I listened to Luke Mesca, and I thought it was terribly funny when he said that after the news, some political parties would decide to fill in the Slovenian Army reserve. This can be said by someone who really doesn't know the system in the Slovenian Army, because it's not like they just fill it up, but they have to go through a training reserve that takes months, they have to stop the security check, they have to be psychophysical in proper condition. It's not like it's some kind of automaticity to just get someone off the street and then be in the contractual reserve. There are special procedures and processes that you need to complete to become a contractual reserve. And if you listen, and if you want to hear it, I ask them to read Article 16 of the Slovenian Army Service Act, this is the principle of the prohibition of political action, which means that "a member of the Slovenian Armed Forces" should either be a professional or a reservist here, "between the time of service and the actual performance of the military service must not operate politically or participate in the activities of political parties. A member shall not attend political meetings in the uniform.” It is clear to every reasonable person that what some cow does in Levica is completely irrelevant because it says in the Service Act in the Slovenian Army that you should not do so. If any of the contractual reserves of this matter that you are talking about were to do so, then it would be the basis for his being expelled or dismissed from the contractual reserve. What you're saying is nice to create some fear, scares and things like that; it has nothing to do with reality. I know you're going to insist on driving yours to the end, but I just want you to hear the argument that what you're saying is wrong. I would like the other parliamentary groups not to fall for this demagogy of the Left and to be able to adopt this law in final consideration today. But I must say, if there is such a fear of this now, I personally have no problem if the parliamentary groups support this amendment because you want to ban membership in the political parties for the reserve. I don't have a problem with that. But I'm sure after that you won't support this marriage, because there's no alternative, you'll remember something new, which is the other thing that bothers you then. Because if we're going to have a dialogue, then it's likely that everyone in the dialogue has to give up a little bit. No one can fully achieve their own, unless you imagine dialogue in Levica in the way that everything is yours. And if it's all yours, then it's okay, otherwise it's not. But that's not the way it works. I'd like to finish at this point for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u69	Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The first one has the word Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President. It is clear that I have to respond, even because in this supplementary speech, the minister has spent about 80% of his time to argue with Levica or to put things in our mouths, which of course he does not. As far as the politicisation of the Slovenian Army is concerned, here is the deception. Minister, you say it's one of our whims or the whim of the Left. Once again, the Legal and Legislative Service has made it very clear how it feels about this addition of yours to this law. An additive not defined in the introduction in the introductory explanation of the law; an additive which is not explained in any way in the very explanation of the article. So that's what happened in the marriage after some strange web of circumstances, if I understand you correctly. And what, you don't know why he's there, or you didn't know why that would be necessary?Oh, my God! Stop fooling around here. I used to quote you in my position about what the ZPS said. As far as the Constitution is concerned. Indeed, professional members of the defence forces and the police cannot be members of political parties. It says so in the Constitution, but the Slovenian Army is a professional army. But he's holding that? Here. But it's got a backup and a permanent set-up. The reserve and permanent composition are two branches of the professional army. And if you're dragging yourself out here right now on the fact that the back-up is not part of the professional army, it's just funny. And that's some change you added in there. The fact that it is not being checked now or that it has not been checked so far is simply a mistake that you are making; or that we should, of course, immediately urinate in Morse and in the Slovenian Army, so we have also proposed that this amendment be deleted once again, because there is no need for members of political parties to be included in the Slovenian army reserve, especially members of those parties who are masquerade and are currently playing soldiers in Slovenian forests and at the Slovenian border. As far as the second part of the law is concerned, I think it's more important and it can no longer be amended, but it's actually the status of a soldier after 45. You're saying that we're not for dialogue, that we'll always find something that bothers us. I'll read you something. On 16 September 2020, three unions, namely the Union of the Ministry of Defence, the Union of the Army, Defence and Protection, and the Union of Pilots of the Ministry of Defence, sent a letter to all Members and Members of the National Assembly. The letter under the line says that you have completely ignored them, that you have not established any dialogue with them, and that you have made changes to the Defence Act on your own. So this is how you imagine dialogue; and you project it to the Left. We've been trying to fix this with the committee's amendment. In this letter, the three trade unions wrote with a strengthened press, citing: "We therefore advocate the proposal that the annual limit of 45 years be abolished and the introduction of an indefinite-time contract, which is the position of all trade unions in the defence field, thereby significantly protecting the rights of workers in the defence area against abuses that we also receive every day." End of quote. When you say there's no human pressure, but there's a lot of pressure on military personnel, the unions are putting you on the line. Trade unions also lie about your argument that it is necessary to resolve these 45 years in a different way. Once again, we already have different statuses within the Slovenian Army, because otherwise treated soldiers who were professionally employed in the Slovenian Army before 1994 and after 1994; and various absurdities when we are talking about officers' acts, where you have different statuses for people doing the same job. And that's unacceptable. If, for example, officers after 45 years of age are able to be psychologically prepared and provide all the standards necessary to carry out their work, then ordinary soldiers at these years can be able, of course, to meet these standards. Your argument is not at this point either. Unfortunately, this cannot be rectified in this law anymore because the amendment was not adopted on the committee and we cannot change it today because the article is closed. In Levica, of course, we will oppose the law because we also agree with the opinion of trade unions in your ministry or the army that this is not a real solution to the situation of soldiers after 45 years, but only further deepens these differences and, of course, also conflicts between all employees in the public sector, which is, of course, unacceptable. We could remove this senseless restriction for 45 years and the matter would be resolved and we would be happy to support such a law in Levica. As it is said, we have been primarily in favour of resolving this situation with this restriction or with this problem, which everyone in the Slovenian army is experiencing. But, as it is said, this law does not solve this and further obscures this already problematic area. Your arguments certainly don't stand and you're being lied to by the Legal and Legal Service and the soldiers themselves. If I were you, I would be slightly less vehemently defending these things and perhaps actually starting to listen and establish dialogue with mainly soldiers and soldiers and trade unions in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u71	The text is given by the proposer, Minister Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u72	I would like to point out that the above-mentioned Law on Defence - this morning I spoke to him - is supported by the Supreme Commander - the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor, that this law has also been supported by the State Council. When you say there is no dialogue, I can present a few things to you when I visit various military stations and talk to soldiers as well. And I have repeatedly asked them to write about how they view the current situation and what they would like. Let me tell you a few thoughts: “I am 43 years old, in the Slovenian Army employed 22 years, all years in the military police. My superior thinks I'm a professional, self-sufficient person. Colleagues respect me and ask me for advice as an age in the unit. In recent years, I've been more concerned with psychophysical preparedness. I'm healthy, every year a mandatory test of motor skills, which includes pushups, abdomens and running for 3000 200 meters, done with excellence. I have contributed to peace on behalf of the country eight times, twice in Bosnia, six times in Kosovo. I am a better man because of military experience, so I sincerely wish and can continue to work in the Slovenian Army. But there are times when I think about how in two years I will provide security for my family, including my school-bound children.” Here I have a list of similar testimony from soldiers and soldiers who, of course, want social security to take care of them. However, I said that the military is specific and that therefore there is no single limit of 45 years, because we want young soldiers in particular. However, we are aware of the responsibility that we must take care of the soldiers after 45 years. And let's make sure they don't lose the revenue they've earned in the Slovenian Army, so they don't lose ten wage classes, so they don't lose 400 euros and more. And this is what we should certainly be most pleased to support in Levic. With regard to the amendments and these things, I will now be very direct. Even if this amendment of yours is accepted, no one will still check whether they are members of political parties, because we have a regulation on the contractual performance of military service in the reserve composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces, where the exact conditions for who may be a reserve are laid down. And the reservist may be someone who is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia and who does not have dual citizenship, who is physically and mentally capable of carrying out military service, who has an adequate education for soldiers, which is normally a secondary vocational school, that they have been, in accordance with the regulations — very important — safely verified and there is no security reservation, that they are not legally convicted of an offence pursued under official duty, and have not been sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for any other offence for more than three months, that they are not employed abroad or that the employer has not directed them to perform work, training or to education abroad for more than three months. Moreover, those who have been recognised as conscientious objectors and those who have been considered unfit for military service as recruits of military service may not be reservists. The conditions for a reservist are extremely strict, so any fears that you take with you are completely out of line. Under these conditions, there is no record of any need to make a declaration that he is not a member of political parties. In a way, your amendment in this sense is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u73	The replica has Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u74	Yeah, two things. Either the minister doesn't want to understand or he misunderstood me. As far as the effort for social status or for the safety of soldiers is concerned, once again, including what the unions say, if we close the 45-year limit and ensure that all soldiers are able under equal conditions to work indefinitely, I do not think we can provide them with better safety from a working point of view. What you're doing right now is worse than that. They wouldn't lose any pay grade, they'd stay the same as they are now. As far as these provisions are concerned. What you said to me about the regulation is, in fact, that the regulation is more important than the law, if I understand you correctly. You can change the regulation yourself and add this matter inside. If this is clearly stated in the law, then the regulation must be amended in due time. There's no problem here, and I can see that you're essentially trying to argue here at all times why it's good. But once again, I think it is very clear – a clear Constitution and its implementation – about the Slovenian Army, which is a professional army; and I think that the warning from the Legislative and Legal Service is clear that it is possible to listen wisely to what they wrote. Unfortunately, many times we overhear or do not want to hear the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, but we should, because sometimes the failure to listen comes back like a boomerang.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u75	The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you. Minister, whenever I listen to your arguments, you're mostly defending yourself if Levika is not for dialogue or not for the Slovenian Army. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, you jumped into my word again and you said it was true. That's not true. What you're doing is distracting attention from the actual state of things and from the truth. And don't jump into my word, Mr. Secretary. When you talk about dialogue, at the same time, you don't meet a union. We have met with three unions that have given us assurance that they want to accept our amendments. You have not taken into account when talking about dialogue, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which we have so far, until the start of this extreme right government of yours, has always been highly respected. Why do we have it? We're not all lawyers, so we have a legal job at the house. The Constitution is perfectly clear, the military must be apolitical, and also the reserve is part of the professional army. But you read to us – and you yourself go to absurdity and counterarguments – you read a letter to us from a soldier who is already afraid at 43 years of age, what will happen in two years, when, by your own words, you confuse him and find him another job; and how he will survive his family. We're proposing contracts for an indefinite period of time. What's the problem, Minister? You say the army is undernourished, the young aren't enough, you say there's not enough interest in the military profession, and the older men would have quit at 45 years of age and probably found another job for them, of course not all of them, probably. In short, the letter from the military union speaks of the abuses that have been committed daily. That's why the military profession isn't as attractive as it should be. I will tell you because I have certain years that a man at 45 years of age, a man at 45 years of age, a soldier who trains, is not into the old pattern and can carry out a military profession, Mr Minister, can carry out a military profession; except in cases where he has a disease, in which case we talk about disability retirement or anything else. Your determination that at 45 years of age a soldier would not be able to do his job is totally unacceptable to me. An army without experience, at the age of 45, we are in all areas of this so-called ageism, as is said in English, that the elderly are no longer worth anything. At 40 years of age, one only begins to understand certain things absolutely and to do his job well. But he's starting to screw him on the sidelines. Why? With young energy, with young people who have no experience, but have much power and energy, it is easier to manipulate, much easier. And older ones must be respected because of what they have done in a particular sector. In short, these transfers that you promise are totally discriminatory. You also stated that on the right they are more susceptible to the military profession. With this you clearly tell your goals and how you plan to fill this spare assembly. Even at your hearing, at the hearing for the minister, you said you didn't mind if, say, the guards joined the reserve. Foreign media are always reporting how unacceptable – and Slovenia should not be allowed to do so – that someone who wants to be a politician, a candidate in elections, a failed politician should make his own army. He makes an army so that if he's not blind and ugly, he'll somehow get some power and power. To tolerate this and to support it in any way is unacceptable. Opening the door for any paramilitary members of political parties is, of course, something we must strongly reject. And you say there's no check. You have also read the terms of the terms and conditions for who can become part of the reserve. However, it is not in these circumstances that I should not be a member of a political party. Why don't we add this condition, because if it's only strong [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Pray, of course, but it doesn't help. If he is only strong and very acutely defined for something, it may happen that we have very strange, extremely right-wing strong guys in these spare systems. And we insist that the army must be apolitical. And that they must not attend political meetings. It can be seen on several occasions that the various pre-teens of certain parties in certain uniforms attend these meetings. The Slovenian army is for the safety of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia and that is why the Slovenian Army must be apolitical. And we will insist. As far as the social situation of soldiers and soldiers is concerned, I guarantee you that we will always maintain dialogue and ask the interested, those concerned, what they would like. And I suggest you check with the unions what their wishes are, not to write laws out of your own knowledge and you do not want to consult with the soldiers or with the Legal and Legal Service. I don't think that's really the way to solve problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The Minister has signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u78	I think I've made my last call to the Left debate today because dialogue is simply impossible and probably a waste of our time. And what Mrs Tomić discussed was simply insulting to me, to the army, to everyone. Just swindling, guessing, and not even disobeying dialogues. I told you very precisely. The arguments you're making are irrelevant, but you're not listening to me. I've told you, I've introduced you, I've quoted you in detail as a regulation on the contractual reserve. They are almost stricter criteria, not nearly; they are stricter criteria that someone can be a contractual reservist than to run for this function in this House. They're tougher. Extremely strict. I can read again what all contractual reserves have to meet in order to be able to join the contractual reserves. That's one thing. Listen to me, Ambassador Tomic. That's one thing. And the other thing that you don't listen to is that we have written today in the Service Act of the Slovenian Army, Article 16, and open Google to read that political action is prohibited. And that's why I'm saying that your amendment is pointless and unnecessary, because today we have a law that prohibits members of the military from political action. Even more, it prohibits them from even participating in uniforms at political meetings. Now you tell me what your amendment makes sense. Strict terms and conditions for a reservist, not in the regulation, the Service Act in the Slovenian Army states that political action is prohibited. Tell me where the purpose of your amendment is now, if the law already prescribes extremely strict criteria for reservists and prohibits their political action. That's why I'm saying you don't listen and drive yours to disability. That's why it's impossible to have a dialogue with you because you turn your stuff around so you can always tell us that we're the biggest fools. Secondly, after this debate, it almost seemed that now we are proposing this law, that after 45 years we will forgive all and leave them alone. Dear Member, that is why we have come by this law to regulate their status after 45 years. But here it is — if you please listen to me so that we can understand each other — an important difference between you and us. You say - after 45 years. But you don't realize that the military profession has a specificity and that at 50, 52 years of age, someone is most likely to be more difficult on the ground to maneuver than someone at 20, 25. The army usually has soldiers between the ages of 20 and 30. We have this age a little bit more. But the key point of this law is to ensure social security for all, including those who will be 45 years old. And another thing you forget to stress is that this law assumes that they will transfer wage classes with them to a new job. They'll have social security. Not to lose 10 pay grade when they're too busy, and to thank you for serving their country, they lose 400 euros each month in salary. Explain to me why you're defending this. Because you're having trouble getting the pay grade into a new job. You have a problem with that. You say it's constitutionally controversial. But to me, it seems the only constitutional justice that someone who has served his country for ten or more years should be transferred to another place of employment. So I'm going to make a dot here and I'm done because it's actually impossible to have a dialogue with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mrs. Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u80	Dear Minister Tonin, you hit me like a snot and left. I'm listening. Believe me, I'm listening with my ears, I don't need to look at you or anyone else. I can hear you. I hear that your arguments are exclusive and rude. Read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and you will see why this proposal is unconstitutional. I can no longer have any more arguments than the Law-Legal Service or the three military unions in Slovenia. Three unions, 3,000 people. You read me a letter from a soldier who says nothing but everyone else — that he is afraid of what will happen to him after 45 years. We're saving this with our amendments, and you don't want to listen to us. Not that we're not capable of dialogue, we're sitting here trying to give you an argument. The arguments behind the 3,000 soldiers behind whom the three unions stand, with the arguments cited by the Legal and Legal Service; and you say yours and leave. Is this the dialogue you're talking about? That's how we talk about beating up MPs and leaving. I'm very concerned about this dialogue. It's a complete lack of any kind of listening to anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Marko Bandelli has the floor. Get Mr. Rudy Bear ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I don't understand here where the problem is, where the problem would be to confirm or support this marriage. Here we're solving certain things that have never been solved, ever, and that's why I don't see this problem here. We're saving the status of a soldier after 45. And then we're always looking for complications. Every time there's a law, it's got to get some lame complications, just to hurt, what do you say, the environment, the system, everything. I'm not just talking about the current law in this case here. Any marriage, if presented by one party, is the other against and invents certain things. If this page presents it, then the other side is against it and invents other things. Well, that's not state-of-the-art. With this law, we are very clear on one problem, one of the status of soldiers after 45 years of age who would be worth only garbage to date. They're not worth anything. Where do we put them, leave them on the road these years? After 25 years of military service in our country, we give them no other option. These people have a contract for a certain period of time, or we're aware of that. This is the only case of public servants with a fixed-term contract. At 25 years of age, a man can imagine making one long-term mortgage for a house in his 30s. He doesn't. And that's not what others get, but let's stay on the case. I will always say that all civil servants are privileged, and I will never deny it. They're privileged. Once you fall in there, no one can move you out of that place if we just say so. You stay where you are. The real sector is slightly different, but also in the real sector we have contracts for indefinite periods, which gives you one security and can give you one vision forward to create a family, one space. These people can't do that today. Literally. And we're adopting a simple law and looking for complications. I agree, I absolutely agree that it is necessary to be careful that the military is apolitical, because it must be. God forbid, because you've seen what happened in Germany with the police, where there were gangs hanging out together, the nation, and this swine extremist, fascist, Nazi. I think there should be an absolute control of the army itself, so that it does not occur inside that certain people, mentalities, ideas, ideology are grouped. I think that's what we're doing, too. I'm sure if there's something that comes out. Someone to sign a statement saying they're not party members, that's such nonsense. What's the meaning of the document if you're a member or not, if you have a card or you don't have your client's card. What matters is what's in here, in this head. If you have nothing in this head, you can sign the documents you want. It's totally lame. We're looking for some complications, I really don't see any point. I think it's only right for us to solve these people's status issues. I don't understand anything. Once it was on the table, I'll give you a quick example of ballet dancers, dancers who are in the opera, who are 15 years able to do their job, we pay them for the rest of our lives, so they don't do anything at all. But there was no problem here, there was no problem for anyone here. Then you say, because there are only 20, 30; I don't know how many there are. Yes, but 20, 30 extremely privileged positions. But why don't we get a chance there that they can fit into some other function; not come in for coffee in the morning and just drink and get paid. There's no question here. But today we're saving here, literally saving the status of soldiers after 45 years. We'll support this in the SAB. We'll be happy to support it. I don't know who said before that there were right-wing men in the army. I had two friends in the army who are just the opposite of what you just mentioned, and we're not burdened with that. This does not mean that they are activists, but they think a little differently, a little more social; it does not mean that you are a social person. I understand the complication one side can have here, but it's not an argument, it's not drinking the water that argument you put on the table. And do you know what the client Sab is different about? We are different because we think with our head and give support where we see it being right. And we are not but a priori against because we must be against this government, or we must be in favour because the idea is some extremist or some other extreme party that sees a different picture in this. No, the SAB party is state-of-the-art. The SAB Party sees that if there is a problem, it is necessary to resolve this issue; and therefore, we have confirmed several times certain things that this coalition has also proposed. Protesting without any proposal is a totally lame protest. You have to be aware of that. That I protest only because I say I protest; and then I say two phrases that seem important to me that I can justify my protest. The apology is no protest. The proposal against this is a real protest. The proposal has to be made. And we see quite a lot when it opposes certain proposals, certain initiatives, then there are no proposals in the background and therefore there is no protest. It seems to me that this law is fine, and I repeat that in the SAB we will confirm it, one move forward. It's not said it's the best, but it's one move ahead. I think that this move will continue to solve the other problems that will. But if we stay at the zero point, we'll always be in the opposition like this. And these guys, 45 years old, I'm gonna tell these guys, because they're younger than me, I know they're all psychophysical and I don't know what abilities they can go on in this job or any other job in the public sector. They deserve it, and it's also right to get it. So much for our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Rudi Medved. Get Mrs. Monica Gregorčič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. On topics like today, we are very quick to speak — patriotism, dignity, stateliness; and very quickly we come to the field of the one who hopes to write that something is wrong and that it is no longer a patriot, it is not a state, and it takes on military dignity. And he takes the army's dignity. What words! Speaking of dignity and military, I have heard from one of my colleagues that we are restoring Slovenian military dignity by means of this law. The Slovenian army has its dignity and, of course, you are not returning it. It's taken by the minister and taken by the minister. What's more about taking dignity than wanting to talk about your destiny with someone who's going to shape his destiny, but he just doesn't talk to him. Here's some free files now showing us that it's an indicator of the mood in the military. We don't have these free files, we don't know; but we do know what the unions say. And when you're writing a marriage and you don't even respect what you're writing it for, you don't even listen to it, you don't hear it, how can this marriage be good, and how can it be supported by the one you're looking for? We are not surprised, therefore, that the defence unions finally appealed to the MPs of the National Assembly if the Minister does not hear them at all. They say that changes in the law don't solve the problem of soldiers after 45 years. Yeah, well, they probably know something if they're working there, but they're not; the minister says he's going to solve this problem. And then we hear here from our colleagues that those of us who doubt that this is really the way to solve it, that we're looking for hair in the egg and that we're only against it because we're against it. I am first in favour of this and also in the position of the List of Marjan Šarc at the beginning of this agenda item, if you wanted to, you could have heard it. In our position, we also made clear what we had done and started everything at the time of the government of Marjan Sarca to solve this problem of the status of soldiers after 45 years, without any changes to the law, since we did not need to do so at that time, we reacted and started to resolve matters. And if it is now well-intentioned, because the minister is not here now, because he would have taken it all personally again, he told me last time that I was doing a dirty job for Marjan Šarc and Damir Črnčec, when I was critical of the things that he brings to the National Assembly. And I will still be critical because he simply does not want to hear that these solutions will immediately run into the Public Sector Wage System Act. They're going to run into the marriage, and that's going to be a big problem. That is why the solution, as represented here by the Minister, is the apparent rescue and dumping of sand in your eyes, the honourable Members of the coalition and those who support these solutions, especially the soldiers and, of course, the soldiers. Since it is clear that such a solution will constitute a derogation from the basic principles of the Public Sector Wage System Act. I'm not saying anything about how good this law is, but it's valid. And that's in conflict with him. And as soon as implementation of these changes starts in practice, there will be major problems in the public sector. Believe me, we've warned the minister every time, but he swings his hand, because he won't save them. He won't save them. Who's gonna do it? Yeah, but the government's gonna have to save them eventually. And I'm not the scrupulous advocate of this single pay system, no way, it's the way it is right now. And when it comes to hiring soldiers into other state bodies or elsewhere in the public sector, you will see what problems will arise. That is why we are reminding today, not that we are against saving the status of soldiers after 45 years. No, why on earth would they be against it? We are simply warning that problems will arise, and that in practice will not solve their status, you will see that they will not. And it will still happen that after a few classes they will be paid less when they are transferred because the lawsuits will fall and the courts will find that this has been established in violation of the Public Sector Wages Act. That's what we're trying to tell you. I have suggested among other things in the position of the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarc, but perhaps it would be better for us all to reject this law together, in order to write a solution that, according to local words, will drink water because it does not drink it. Of course, I said it naively because I believe it will not happen, but it would certainly be useful. As the Minister is now skilled in his pear action, as well as in investing in the Slovenian Army, he brings solutions that are not feasible. Neither will investment be feasible, but we will talk about it later. This is the kind of thing that we want to point out, not to find out what the problems are and to be totally against. I would be if I thought the solution was the right one, with great pleasure. With regard to the point to which we are also critical in the List of Marjan Šarc, we are not hiding this, but of course this is the provision that has now crept into the law on this membership in political parties. We don't even know why this happened all of a sudden, why it has to be explicitly written into the law. On the one hand, it is also, in fact, contradictory. If political activity is completely prohibited, which is right within the military, why on the other hand do we now make this political affiliation lawful, to practically force people to go to the reserve. Why does that bother us? In fact, we misinterpret the political activities of political parties within the military. They're not going to get together because they're not going to spread party propaganda and who knows what else. It is true, however, that at some point the members of the reserve composition can be completely identical to those of the Slovenian Armed Forces, with exactly the same tasks and with the conflict of interest to which they should follow. This is a conflict of interest – either by political affiliation or by command in the Slovenian Army. I'm talking about extreme cases, extreme circumstances. At that time, we are not talking about the fact that the reservists are reservists, but they will perform exactly the same tasks as members of the regular composition. That's what we keep warning you about. We have not changed our attitude, we do not fear anything, we do not need this record in our marriage, and we are therefore opposed to it. We're not looking for hair in the egg again, because you really don't have to look here, because you can see it far enough. Especially because the minister had even kept his mouth shut that this would work in the marriage. I don't know if it just happened by accident. I don't believe it's an accident, and I don't believe in this explanation, that now it's just the law of something that's already going on in practice. In practice, then, it goes wrong already, it's already going wrong. And we know why. They do not ask the reservists whether they are members of political parties, because they are supposed to be interested in the contractual reserve at the time of such a restriction, and it is already difficult to get people. Such explanations also come from the defence system. As it is said, we cannot support these solutions, which are proposed in this law; and we do not want to be responsible for the problems that Slovenian soldiers will face when the amendment of this law starts to be implemented in practice. There are some other things disturbing that have happened, including this loosening of the conditions of psychophysical verification and who knows what else, which brings the novelty of this law, not to mention if it has happened in the novelty, that there is no way we can see any solution to stimulate young people to join the Slovenian Army in some way. If you had already made changes to the law, you would expect that there would be something about it. That's why I'm interested in the Minister's return, and I can ask him why he doesn't seem to have to talk to soldiers about it, not through these letters, but with union representatives of soldiers, or with unions in the whole public sector, because you're going to run into a big problem here. This I guarantee you that, although the Prime Minister of the Government has recently announced the decommissioning of the single pay system, it is okay for this service sector to go out of this single pay system. I don't know if this belongs in this category right now, but soldiers are already in this service sector after 45 years or not. Of course, in the way that the single pay system is broken down, you will not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Monika Gregorčič. Get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Vice President. A nice greeting to all, especially the representatives of the Government who today present this novel in the National Assembly! I am this novel, this proposal of the Defence Act, which addresses the social problem of soldiers after 45 years, I very warmly welcome. I am well aware that, according to my assessment, the regulation so far has been criminal to members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and this legal solution finally addresses this problem systematically. The solution, as proposed, is a two-step solution, in the sense that those soldiers who will have some special knowledge and for which demand or the need for the Slovenian Army will still exist can remain employed in the Slovenian Army; for all others, transfers are envisaged to the authorities of the state administration, so that they can be allocated to these jobs or compete without a call for tender and that they will also be able to transfer all the financial benefits or the level of wages from the current employment. The very purpose of this novel is certainly to increase the attractiveness of the military profession. In the first place, to prevent the outflow of personnel — soldiers who certainly did not have a future guaranteed after 45 years of age — sought other opportunities while they were younger. And this novel will also allow the profession of soldiers to become so attractive to new, future, potential members and candidates. This directly addresses the problem or also a strategic document. The White Paper on Defence, adopted at the time of the government of Marjan Šarca, has somehow perceived the human resources problem as one of the major problems and has highlighted the need to increase the size of the permanent and spare composition. This novel today literally addresses this issue, and it is somehow unclear to me or difficult to understand that colleagues, especially in LMŠ, cannot support it. For if we do not take this step forward today, I am really afraid that then the time will really come or the situation will have to be discussed also on the possible gradual introduction of the recruitment system. If anything, I would like this situation not to occur and to maintain an existing professional army, which I think has so far proved very well and justified that decision more than fifteen years ago, when we have also decided on or made this professional decision for the Slovenian Armed Forces. As for the operation or the union's comments; today we have heard from the opposition that they are reading to the minister that he has prepared the novel without social dialogue, dialogue with the military unions. Maybe it's my thinking or my thought that I don't really understand what kind of interest these unions are working in. If they act in the interest of Slovenian soldiers, their members, then we should welcome every progress, every step that improves the position of the Slovenian soldier. But here I think it's some kind of political nagging, it works in the sense that if someone offers a finger, they want a whole hand. Their solution is only very radical, their proposal would, of course, only mean avoiding or eliminating that condition for 45 years as a limit for participation in the Slovenian Army. But we know that this can bring along a lot of other problems. I think that the solution prepared by the current Minister is very correct for members of the Slovenian Army. One other point is highlighted, which has also been raised in debates today, as regards the condition. There is a problem with the condition that members of the reserve should not also be members of political parties. 42nd Article of the Constitution, last paragraph, clearly sets out, and I will read this sentence: “Professional members of the defence forces and the police cannot be members of political parties.” In the opposition, they explain this sentence in a way that we have a professional army and that it makes sense that members of the reserve team are professional soldiers, but I just want to remind you that the police are also a professional formation, a professional institution; and that then members of the reserve police composition by the same logic should not be members of political parties, but we know that they are allowed to do so. I am convinced that this sentence is being misinterpreted by some or even intentionally twofold; in particular, in the context of any political issue or fear that members of the reserve will be largely joined or that the interest in cooperation will be shown by members of the right political option. Here I do not see any obstacle why you, respected colleagues in Levica, should also talk to all your members, all your sympathizers, to join and at least become members of our Slovenian Army's reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. As the last in this round, Mr Joseph Horvat has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll start a little differently, my four-year-old granddaughter now has a period of time, often asking if something is harmful or not harmful. And now I am trying to understand it, and I am also wondering whether these solutions in this law are harmful either to the Republic of Slovenia or to the soldiers of the Slovenian Army, whether they are harmful. We've read a lot about this, we've talked a lot, even on our client's organs. And we have found that this novel of the Defence Act is not harmful. And that's why it's our support. With regard to the amendment of the Left to remember who speaks of the prohibition of membership in political parties, I fully understand your intention, your political agenda, every political party has its own agenda, its own views. But, colleagues and colleagues from the Left, in my opinion, this amendment is irrelevant. Why? Since Article 16 of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army clearly states that political action is prohibited in the Slovenian Army, we have this written down, we do not change it. But if I'm already in the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, maybe the Minister of Mag would. Tonin chose the easy way to change this law, where he did not need a two-thirds majority; however, he decided, together with his fellow workers, to make a difficult journey, to change the Defence Act, where he needed a two-thirds majority of all present. And it is true that this debate here and so much, I have some experience and it is also clear to everyone, probably at least at this point, that we agree that these nine parliamentary parties with such different, even diametrically opposite views, as regards our defence system, the status of soldiers, investments and so on, that we simply cannot make some tectonic movements in one step, I stress – in one step, perhaps in three, but in no way in one step, that we can change the status of Slovenian soldiers overnight and make the profession of Slovenian soldiers attractive. As for the evidence that this law is now destroying the single salary system, colleagues and colleagues, the single salary system, as it was set up in 2008, I was there for a long time. We probably agree on this point, too. And the obvious, it really makes me laugh, I apologize, the obvious that now membership in the political party in the Slovenian Army reserve will open the door wide to guards who are walking, what we have already heard, through Slovenian forests and so on. Come on, please! Can you imagine, theoretically, if the white book says that we're going to have 2,000 reserve members to say three quarters of the members of the Left, is that going to be a security issue right now?Oh, my God! He won't. He won't. You know what kind of checks you have to do if you want to be a contractual reserve. Let's have a little more rational discussion. And in this house, there should be truth at home. I greatly appreciate the opinion of every union, any union, even if we have a union in the Slovenian Army, okay, we have it. Today, 29 September 2020, the Slovenian Soldiers' Union wrote us a letter, which has the title of the Amendments to the Defence Law, they must think of the Defence Act, officially. So: “The amendments to the defence law improve the current regime for soldiers after 45 years, but not entirely.” I greatly appreciate this observation, first of all support for the law. Yes, it is perfectly normal; if I were a member of the union or in the leadership of any union, it is normal that I should never be satisfied with the solutions. Normally, because if I say, let's say in this case, the solution is oh and in general, a clean ten and so on, then the next step is to quit myself. Once again, I appreciate this letter, maybe it should have come a little sooner, but okay. That there's no dialogue. As far as I know, I think the Secretary of State, Mr Lampret – here he sits – has a regular dialogue with the unions. Now don't say there's no dialogue. Of course, we can now talk here about what the frequency must be, whether it must be on a daily basis, or whether there must always be a minister next to it, or whether it must always be alongside the commander-in-chief of the defence forces. And there's something else that's unconstitutional. If I understand correctly, whether we comply with the Constitution or that some law is not in accordance with the Constitution, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decides in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the Legislative and Legal Service can warn – and must warn – if any matters are problematic, I always respect them, but at the end of the day it is the Constitutional Court that says whether the law is in conformity with the Slovenian Constitution or not. Colleagues and colleagues, let me maybe take a little look after the historical memory. Slovenians and Slovenians, in a way, we put events that took place 30 years ago, and earlier and later, into the sanctuary of our historical memory. These days it is 30 years since the foundation stone of Slovenian security and defence sovereignty was laid. You know what I'm talking about, because the media has been writing about this. Thirty years ago, the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proclaimed amendments 96, 97 and 98 k of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, with which it fulfilled the objectives of the Declaration on the Sovereignty of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, and took an additional step towards independence. On 2 July 1990, the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Declaration of Sovereignty of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, which made clear the desire and will to exercise the right to self-determination, including through the creation of a new Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And as it is said, these amendments are a fundamental stone, in my understanding, for the security and defence sovereignty of our country. There's no connection, you'll say, with today's matter, but in a way, it seems to me it's a lucky coincidence that right now, at the age of 30, we're also considering the new Defence Act. I'm not saying that we're going to stop here now, that we're going to leave this status of a soldier after 45 years, just like it says here. The fact is, we're improving this status because it's actually true that we haven't invented the number 45 years. After the 45th year, the soldier is actually doing business in the Slovenian Army and it is an employment agency; or in some ways, we can say, even on the road. Now we want this matter humanely as much as we want to solve it. I am not saying that we will now stop here, that this is the maximum oh and at all a solution, but we will continue to think about what remains to be done in this regard as regards the status of the Slovenian soldier. I believe, I believe that it will not be possible for young people to slobber if you want, but in the Slovenian barracks they will say, "Look, status after year 45 is saved, and now we are going to serve in the Slovenian Army." That's not gonna happen. Here's where it's gonna be. I didn't know myself until I asked the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Army when I was thinking about it, if then the Slovenian soldier would even get some long-term housing loan. The Commissioner's answer was not to get it. Normally, if you're a banker, a soldier is about 30, 35 years old, asks for a mortgage, every banker sees where you're employed, and also knows that after 45 years there's no guaranteed income, who's going to pay off the loan. That's probably clear to all of us. With this at least one small share, a fraction, if you want, we also repair the quality of life of Slovenian soldiers. Yes, I also claim that in some way we want to contribute to the dignity of the Slovenian soldier by this law, because just sending him to the institution, to the road, is probably not dignity. It's probably not dignity. Now I'm not going to tell you exactly what the solutions are, because we all know them very well. The question is, do we want to know them? But I'm really worried about something that's honest. Knowing that the Slovenian Army is the foundation of our statehood, sovereignty and autonomy, it is concerned that rhetoric and street calls are actually moving in some way to Parliament. Let me recall, because my heart has actually broken, that on the eve of the day of statehood this happened, on the eve of the day of statehood, yes, it has happened that some individuals of the guard of the Slovenian Army have measured against traitors. Maybe they're even on my payroll or yours. You know what I mean. And we in New Slovenia are simply not going to let that happen. And I hope that there will be no rhetoric like this, I hope it doesn't ignite, and I don't think there's room for it in the National Assembly. I remain convinced that the amendment of the Left is irrelevant. Everything is already regulated in the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, where political action is prohibited. But I hope so, but then I may not be, anywhere else, that this society will be so mature in democratic consciousness that it will leave this freedom so that a soldier and a police officer can join one of the political parties. I wish that there would be no political action and no police or military action. We all understand what it means to have no political action. Here many companies have written down in their rules that it is not prohibited to be a member of any of the political parties, but that political action on the firm is not as it is said. We're just defending freedom because it's kind of nonsense; what we're going to do is we're going to ban soldiers and police from going to the elections. There is a need for a political definition, action — no, membership — yes. It doesn't bother us. I reiterate my support for this law and look forward to some further discussions on how to improve the status of soldiers and, above all, how to make the profession of Slovenian soldier more attractive. Today it is not appropriate to explain in a long and broad way what the Slovenian Army offers, from scholarships and so on and so on. This may be on some other occasion. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Before opening a new round of applications, the Secretary of State, Mr Lampret, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In view of the debate so far, only two very short explanations can be made. First of all, it would be about cleavage of psychophysical criteria. I guarantee here that there is no way to overturn any criteria in the recruitment or in the spare composition of the Slovenian Army or in the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army. What we are really doing is not relaxing, but we are trying to do this service, so this military training that we have to do is adjusted in time, so that this can be done when future candidates are most comfortable with this – in the summer months. The other checks, which the Minister has already mentioned, remain such, very hard to verify. Another union issue; indeed, I am the one, the minister has entrusted me with regular dialogue with all four unions at the Ministry of Defence. These unions have a slightly specific role to play in defense. We have a dialogue, one of which we have even signed a new treaty on representativeness. With regard to the resolution of the status of soldiers, unions have been providing their support from day one for the matter to be resolved. That's true, some of you mentioned it. Their starting point was that why it was not possible for soldiers to contract indefinitely and the matter was resolved. However, we are looking for a solution for the final user – the Slovenian Army and you have already had the opportunity to hear from the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Regarding the specificity of the organisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, this is a hierarchical organisation. On certain formational duties, where soldiers can carry out their work even after that, they will determine which ones they are. On certain formational duties – and I do not go into too much detail now – the shooter, as they move in the field, in the infantry, is probably very difficult to do until the full pension. It is essential to ensure that, after 45 years, if he is not in those formational duties or is no longer in a position to participate in those tasks, he is given the right to transfer rights and that he continues to do so there. Back to the unions, you've heard that before. We introduced it to the unions, too. Their maximal starting point was why we didn't give it to everyone for an indefinite time; and we also explained why it didn't. Other countries don't have that kind of solution either. Not in all formational duties in the Slovenian Army. Thank you, Vice President, so much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Since there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening a new round of applications. Please sign in. We've got eight interviewees reported. First of all, he gets the word, Mr. Joseph Lenart. Get ready, Mr. Andrey Chernigoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that, Vice President. Amendments to the Defence Act actually improve the current regime for soldiers after 45 years. Most agree. This is also agreed by trade unions, although, of course, trade unions are always trying, they are striving for even better conditions for their members. If we didn't, then we wouldn't be real union representatives. In general, we also have good contacts with the unions in the coalition and we are also informed in the same way, but in this respect we now need to understand the Ministry that they have actually started to resolve the status in steps, that they have actually started to solve in steps, that the Slovenian Army will, of course, have a positive inflow and not a negative fluctuation. For this reason, these are the first good solutions. That they want the union to fix something back and for those who have gone to other jobs, i.e. civil places in the Slovenian Army, and this is not at all as simple as the ministry representatives have already said. If anyone wants to understand this, he understands; if not, no. The matter is also very difficult for any soldier to get a part-time job as a soldier. I think that most of us in here are aware that every other or third year after 45 years would no longer perform a medical examination for this job, there are conditions, requirements for this difficult job, which actually requires a person in an extremely good physical and mental condition. For those specific jobs then, in fact, it is somehow defined in which places these soldiers could then also remain, I think that it is right to continue to assess that there are no problems; and also that someone in his position in the military would not be able to work in this place. Then I'd touch this non-political or apolitical thing. I think we all know that a person is usually somehow defined, whether we say that he is politically defined or not; and every candidate for a worker, for an employee who comes to an interview, has some of his own views. Of course, soldiers should not appear to be in the party, but I must say that when you choose them for a job, in this case we are talking about a contract contract for a contract, for a contract soldier, you can actually check whether they are part of a political party or not. I'm sure the actual ministry can do this, but then the other thing is if someone actually joined and cooperated or didn't sign any paper at all, they would actually be involved with a party. It's not that easy to control, it's a fact. I think this amendment of the Left is irrelevant, but, of course, control must be. With regard to the single pay system, which we know to be in the form he intended, he is no longer at all, but now, in view of these concerns also from the opposition, too many differences, some deviations, some irregularities in wages, because he will be a soldier, will in some way be a little different from the rest of the system. But I would just say that it's nothing like that, we started on the way up the stairs, I respect these proposals, of course I fully support the law, but as it was, it can't be anymore. As it is now, however, it is unlikely that there will be an indefinite period of time, for the ministry seeks to finally exclude soldiers from the single pay system in general. This would also be the only right solution so that, in fact, with a proper salary, I will not say the top salary, but the right pay will somehow give motivation to young people to get more employment in the Slovenian Army. Why am I talking about youth? Because one part of these soldiers, these simple infantry soldiers, if we say so, our defenders, must be young, because the old army can't actually fight the young army, that's clear. And if we go any further, that the previous ministers have actually forgotten the arrangements for this status, they have repeatedly expressed themselves – we will try if we succeed. Now I'm going to say that this minister is starting real cuts and real moves. I think that in a few years we will still be able to come up with such proposals, which is why I support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chernigoj is next. Let's get the mags ready. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for the floor. Today, in the temple of democracy, we want to restore the Slovenian Army with dignity and, above all, with the city of Slovenian society. I believe that these words hurt some here, I stress again – they hurt, but this is the pure truth, so I will repeat them again. Today, in the temple of democracy, we want to restore the Slovenian army with dignity and, above all, with the city of Slovenian society. I look forward to today's high support for the Defence Act, but at the same time I cannot support the opposition's amendments, here I particularly think of the Left Party. Why? Here we have the Defence Act, supported by the President of the State, most of the parties in the temple of democracy, supported by the State Council, only in one party, the Party of the Left, are speaking out against. It is against the law to be against a small man, against an ordinary soldier and soldier in the Slovenian Army. Let anyone who can do this understand. I can't do this. The Party of the Left would rescue the Slovenian Army. When she was a supreme party and had a great opportunity to do something, she did nothing, absolutely nothing. It is difficult for a party who has not been with the Defence Committee on the ground in six years to expect significant solutions. Today’s or even in the past, their three-fold “no” is a clear indicator of their intention to abolish the Slovenian Army. First of all, I'm not. It is unacceptable that Parliamentary party Levica in a democratic country considers that obstruction of the protection of the state border is permissible, and I am pleased to invite them to come to Illyrian Bistrica and try to explain it to us. Second, not the Defence Act; and thirdly, not the Investment Act in the Slovenian Army. For all these reasons, which I have cited today, I will gladly confirm the Defence Act, but I will reject all the opposition's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Branko Grimes. Get Mr. Alexander Reberšek ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u96	Nice greeting also Slovenian Army, all soldiers and, of course, all those who care about the safety of Slovenia. The National Assembly has one floor below a very nice library. There are some constitutional law textbooks in there. I like to read them myself, especially the one written by Prof. Dr. Lovro Šturm about what is the limitation of power, what is the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and how the Slovenian Constitution regulates it. How nice it would be and how we could avoid unnecessary debate today, and even in the days before, if at least some basics were known by everyone. What needs to be known about the Slovenian Constitution is that it has a special chapter governing human rights and fundamental freedoms; and that it has, then, in Article 15 of this Chapter, a special guardian who provides, inter alia, that human rights and fundamental freedoms are exercised directly on the basis of the Constitution itself, that they are not allowed to be further restricted and that they are not allowed to be restricted in any way, nor by an excuse that the Constitution does not recognise them or that it recognises them to a lesser extent. Why is that important? Because that's the difference between democracy and totalitarianism. Totalitarianism is a negative concept of law, only what is explicitly allowed, which is written down; everything else is prohibited. We live in democracy, in the constitutional Republic, where we have a positive right to allow anything that is not exceptionally prohibited. And only the Constitution limits certain rights and fundamental freedoms, and in precisely certain cases. And in specific cases, it also allows this implementation or implementation to be regulated by law. In the specific case in question, the Constitution is crystal clear in the last paragraph of Article 42; the restriction on membership in political parties applies only to professional members of the armed forces and the police, says the military and the police. It's perfectly clear who he's referring to. No expansion is allowed here. The Constitution as a fundamental human right gives the right to unification. It also provides as a fundamental right of freedom in this Chapter that everyone has the right to participate in public affairs. And so on. All of this would be questioned if what is limited in the Constitution were to be extended to another. And here it is clear – professional only applies this restriction. The reserve composition is not professional, it is contractual, they are not professionally bound as career Slovenian soldiers or career Slovenian police officers to this institution, they cannot in any case be subject to this restriction. Moreover, if someone wanted to implement this, it would then fly with certainty either in the Constitutional Court or in the European Court of Human Rights, because it would constitute an unnecessary and, under the very Article of the Constitution, which I quoted earlier, article 15, an additional inadmissible restriction on human rights and fundamental freedoms. It's so simple, really. That is why this whole debate is unnecessary. The restriction in the Constitution applies to those who are professionally, careerally, with their lives committed to careers in the police or the military. It does not apply to others and cannot apply. And whoever draws from it I do not know what conclusion and says otherwise, but it shows more ignorance. This does unnecessary damage to the military itself, to the police and, on the other hand, to double criteria, since such a article is already enshrined in a law governing the police area, and there is no problem, it is said to be completely indisputable. And the same article is now provided for if it is, or if it is not, in any case, the Constitution applies. Once again, only those restrictions on human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Constitution are permissible; and only the regulation of those areas where the Constitution provides for regulation by law is permissible. No other thing is permissible, we live in positive law, which means that it is not explicitly prohibited in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms under the Constitution, is allowed, is the right of every individual; and no one has the right to do so in any way. I think that as far as it's concerned, it's perfectly clear, it's over. In short, the law is well prepared and I support it. On the other hand, I'd like to point out something else. The law – such as – represents a certain investment, an investment in people, in Slovenian soldiers. Even in this part, when it regulates when it allows them an appropriate solution after the age of 45, to solve one problem they have faced in an appropriate way. And this system is now comparable to many other countries, where this is applicable and has been going well for many years. Today, when we look at the modern world, we must be aware of that fundamental message, which always applies when we talk about the security system in which the Slovenian Army is, of course, a pillar. Security investment is today an investment in development. Only those countries that are capable of providing themselves and their citizens with permanent, indivisible, comprehensive security will develop, those are perspectives, capital will come in, investments will come in, all others will start to be poor. One who doubts whether he should look at the richest country or at least one of the richest countries is Sweden; what does totalitarianism do or, if you want, socialism, look at Venezuela. The message is clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Reberšek has the following word. Get Mr. Boštjan Koražija ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I will start my debate on the story of a member of the Slovenian Army who is 44 years old and has been employed since 2002 and is 18 years old. “In the beginning, I was a military police officer, and in recent years I have been working in intelligence. I've done a number of specialist trainings at centres of excellence within the Alliance. I speak three foreign languages, five missions six months later. I want to continue to do the work for which I am trained and capable, mentally and physically. I care about my condition, my superiors judge me as a great worker, my family is an army. It's not that after 45 years, I won't find myself paying off my mortgage until the end. I've got ten more years. It is a matter of formality that my contract of employment will be terminated despite the fulfilment of all the psychophysical and professional conditions for the performance of my work.” I think every single one of us today should be wondering where human dignity is. The Law on Service in the Slovenian Army in its Article 16 states: "A member of the Slovenian Armed Forces shall not act politically during service hours and in actual service of military service, nor shall he participate in the activities of political parties, unless it is a matter of performing business. A member shall not attend political meetings in the uniform.” The amendment of the Left is therefore irrelevant, the political functioning of a member of the Slovenian Armed Forces is clearly laid down in Article 16 of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. What is obvious today, and so obvious, is that the leftist army is attacking Minister Tonin, using tactics — strikes and flees. Before you there was a full bench, now you are only sitting two more and that is the only thing you know – fooling the Slovenian public and talking beautifully. Members of the Left, and even honourable Ambassador Violet, I inform you that the army is not a theater. One is your beautiful words, and the other is your actions. Be honest and tell our citizens that you have not taken one single minute since you were in the National Assembly in six years to attend the sightseeing of the Slovenian army on the ground. Tell that to our citizens. What you want in the party is to blacken the Slovenian army, blacken the Slovenian soldier and blacken the defence minister Matei Tonin; while in Novi Slovenija - Christian Democrats we want to restore the dignity of the Slovenian army and Slovenian soldiers. In Novi Slovenija, we are most proud of the initiative that saves the social security of all members and members of the Slovenian Army after 45 years. Minister Tonin is the first minister to save the status of a soldier after 45 years. While so far others have spoken and only spoken, they are now at the Ministry of Labour; and this is more than likely to disturb the client Levica. The louder you are, the more we know we're doing the right thing. You are obviously disturbed by the strong Slovenian army and you are also disturbed by the activation of Article 37a. By objecting to the activation of Article 37a, you inform our citizens that you oppose Slovenian soldiers to defend us; and this is the same as telling Slovenian doctors to stop treating our patients. I hope you are aware that you are playing with 63 soldiers who will be 45 years old this year and that you are playing with 93 soldiers who will be 45 years old next year. It is interesting how long the soldiers served in the Slovenian Army at all. On average, 18 years. This is not about people off the road, but about people who practically gave the best years of their lives for the Slovenian Army, their entire active career. I am very disturbed that in Levica you always fight for those people who have the smallest income, for our citizens, for those who work, for nicknames, for students. But when it comes to action, you wrap your tongue around it and object to all the good suggestions. Do you have any idea how much the salary of soldiers left in the Slovenian Army has fallen so far? Some also have up to €500 gross or more than ten wage classes. And today, after all this time, they're not on the same salary as they were at the age of 45. Where are you workers' rights fighters? Your mouth is full of you. You had scissors and a canvas in your hands. You were a super-coalist party, you'd go to the government and you'd take over the Ministry of Defense, and you'd set your Miho Kordish as minister. I am sure that we would no longer talk about the Slovenian Army today; and this is also your goal. You are in the Party of the Left for the abolition of the Slovenian Army. Of course, I understand you, it's much easier to spit, collect cheap political points and run an empty pop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs Natasa Sukič has a procedural proposal on the application of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u100	Yes, Your Honor, please warn the Member to stop insinuations, lies and attacks on the left party. Let him focus on the subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u101	Mrs. Sukić, Mrs. Sukić [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u102	Let him defend his arguments, not spit on us. Please give a reminder, because this debate that I have just listened to is a big one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u103	Yes, I have specifically warned you that there should be a procedural proposal on the use of the Rules of Procedure. I believe you know very well that I cannot interfere and will not interfere in the substantive debate, Comrade Rebersk. However, you can, of course, tell him through your debate what you now wanted to say in the context of the procedural proposal. With regard to the reminder, of course, I will not say it because I would like to express it to the content that the Member has discussed, which is inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure. I think we can move on. Mr. Boštjan Koražija has the floor. And the next one, prepare the mags. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u104	Madam President, thank you very much. Mr Reberšek, we should first go to a gentleman's school and also learn the basic ferple in the National Assembly. First of all, you do not attack a man who is not present in the National Assembly, in this case Violet; second, you do not attack women in this way. I think it's right that you sign up for a gentleman's school or some school of art. There's also a lot of books, and I can bring them to you myself if you want. And Mr Branko Grimes knows the entire library below, and you can ask him. I will be referring to Mr Tonin in advance, it must be acknowledged that he has been in Parliament or the National Assembly for a long time. He masters the skills of politics and constantly deceives us with the fact that we are priors in Levica against Slovenian soldiers and soldiers. Of course it doesn't. Look, we've met with the unions, we've had meetings that have told us about all the troubles that are happening to them, and I'm actually curious why they didn't find all the rest of you if you're so much for soldiers and soldiers. Another matter that Mr Tonin also constantly explains would also remind him of when he says he wants to point out in this style that we are against religion, against belief. I'm a Christian, and I've already said that, and I admit it, and I'm not ashamed of it. But I would be very happy if there were any more socialists in the NS and they obviously don't have one. As far as this marriage is concerned, it is fundamentally discriminatory. Let us start again in a row and then connect ourselves to Mr Rebrska's debate. The law is written in male form. If you thought seriously about what you were preparing, Mr Minister, when you were talking about soldiers and soldiers, about members and members of the Slovenian Army, then you would also write that in the law. Again, the double morality of Mr Tonin is, as a result, the NSI. In the Slovenian Army we actually have a thousand 42 members or soldiers, then we also have 5,000 979 members or soldiers. The basic problem of the Slovenian army, or soldiers and soldiers, is essentially a long time ago. You were in the government 2004-2008. In 2002, the law was amended, which further rewarded officers and undersignors to be employed for an indefinite period of time. You didn't give the soldiers anything. Soldiers lost everything, with fixed-term contracts, and after 45 years, they were convicted of being on the road or seeking a new job. We are with this amendment today, which we have also presented or which will be further discussed, and this can also be confirmed by the gentlemen from the Ministry, or also from the General Staff, that anyone who decides to be a soldier will decide in 90% with the heart to be a soldier. And then, if you just pull a man like that out of the army after 45 years, it's really not fair, and we're back at the fair. And this humiliation about discrimination, about the years that soldiers or soldiers are no longer psychophysically capable after 45 years, will not hold. I can tell from my experience that this is not true at all. Also humiliating these members and members of the Slovenian Army that they are no longer able to carry out their profession for years; they are very well. Once again, I think our amendment is very good, and we also have union support. Previously, Mr NSI explained that this law had the support of the President of the State and the Council of State. But he has no most important support, namely, trade unions that advocate for a small man or even an ordinary worker; in this case, soldiers and soldiers. Think about these things a little bit. And once again, I propose to Mr. Reberschko a gentleman's school, and to learn the ferple.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mag. Marko Koprivc has the next word. But get ready for Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u106	Vice President, thank you so much for the floor. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Let me first express my regret or protest over the way Members communicate on the other hand, particularly representatives of New Slovenia, who are trying in some way all who have concerns, perhaps well-intentioned concerns, and not a priori opposition to this law, in some way to tarnish or condemn them in the sense that they are against the military, that they act almost unconstitutionally because of this. Let me say that I am absolutely not an opponent of the Slovenian Army. We have a Slovenian army, it's our army, and it's right to take care of it. However, I certainly think that, especially at this moment, in these difficult times, the Slovenian Armed Forces should not be the first priority in this country. Nevertheless, I believe that the law currently before us solves important issues. In every way, it is right that we have attempted to resolve the issue of the status of soldiers after 45 years, or at a time when somehow the army is no longer fully capable of working in the military. That's positive. However, in my view, we can rightly ask why these solutions were not supported by the unions. We have four unions in this area, and the unions didn't support it. And I think this question is perfectly legitimate. And we have not yet received a clear response from the Ministry. As a matter of fact, I think it's a good idea, and it's only right that we finally save this status of soldiers. The second issue that I am even more concerned about, however, is the issue that explicitly writes into the law the possibility that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces reserve are also members of political parties. There's a lot of people who can say that we're paranoid, that we're afraid. Dear colleagues and colleagues, watching the guards train, surrounding police stations, playing the role of soldiers at the state border, I'm sorry, I admit, I may be paranoid, but I think it's justified. At the same time, the representatives of a particular party, the largest government parties, do not hide sympathy for these values. That is why I think it is right that the amendment of the Left, which deletes this provision from the bill, is supported; and that any dilemmas on this issue be resolved. However, as we say, please, distinguished representatives of the ministry, I am sorry that the minister is no longer among us, although there is a very important topic – yes, there is, great – but please explain clearly how it is possible to trade these solutions, which at first sight look good and positive, have not been supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr Koprivc asked about the role of trade unions and their attitude towards the law and about this membership in political parties. As far as trade unions are concerned, I have a letter here, a colleague will give it to me so that I can quote it accurately, but they clearly write down that they support this law; they even write down exactly how they support it, and they support it in part because they say that it saves things for the next time. However, it does not solve the question of those who, say, two years ago, three years ago who were 45 years old and who did not have the treatment that this law brings. This is, in particular, an obstacle to the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia. Otherwise, they wrote in the letter that the solutions support, but they say that the problem does not solve in an integrated way, because they say that those who went before two or three years ago and do not know how many years into another state authority or into a civil position, who had no paid grade transferred, did not have the options offered by this law. This is their comment and this is their problem. With regard to your second question, Mr Koprivc, who is in place, I would say the following. I consider you a serious Member, and I believe that you will listen to the argument that this fear of a political party is completely superfluous. But it's too much because the criteria for the reservist are extremely strict. If you were in the Chamber by accident before, I listed a full list of some of the conditions that the reservist must fulfil, for example, that he does not have dual citizenship, that he is not punished and so on, there are about six points of what he must fulfil. But then you have the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, which specifically stipulates in Article 16 that any political action is prohibited. This means that even a member of a uniform should not come to a political meeting. Therefore, I say that this fear is artificially created, there is no such thing as the current Service Law in the Slovenian Army prohibits any political action. Article 16 also creates the conditions for anyone to be carried out is also an opportunity to be forgiven.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. As the last in this round, Mr Robert Pavšič should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. We have a law ahead of us that needs a two-thirds majority, and we all know that in this room. If we all want to play a responsible policy in this national assembly, we should today discuss what unites us in this law or what we agree with; and we should not seek nuances where we disagree. Only in this way can we come up with some steps, some solutions that are urgently needed. I also dealt with the situation in the Slovenian Army in the previous term. I also remember the Levica Group, how loud it was, that a state that lasted must be regulated in the Slovenian Army. Their representative was very loud. But when these solutions are on the table today, we are again looking for the little things and details that lead us back to the status quo. It's been too long this status quo, a template. If you listened to the introduction of the Minister, he said well that we are still fighting today that there are more departures from the Slovenian Army than there are arrivals. If we allow such a situation to continue, then it means that we have signed under the letter to destroy the Slovenian Army for meals. But that's what we're responsible for, sitting here in the National Assembly. If you looked at the president's assessment of why there was some kind of underassessment, it was clear. The military's understaffing, that's the first problem, the second problem is obsolete equipment and poor stock. Those were the three points he pointed out. And with this law we are certainly starting to move things at the first point, it is called human resources perfection in the Slovenian Army. You're saying these solutions aren't complete, I think a colleague from the Left said that the law is even discriminatory and so on. The situation currently in the Slovenian Army is discriminatory. This is the only profession within the public sector wage system which has essentially fixed-term contracts. It's the only profession for a while. We know that some things are not completely reproducible from one profession to another, but this proposal allows soldiers to offer solutions in concrete terms after these ten years, one of the solutions that is crucial is that they can extend this period in the Slovenian Army. This one's very important. Another is that if they are employed in another job within another ministry, they will retain all the classes or wages they had. And that's crucial because we're talking about their social status. This is crucial if you go to another job and they offer it to you, then you will retain the status you achieved in the Slovenian Army. But surely there are some characteristics of work in the Slovenian Army, certainly we cannot compare soldiers at 25 years of age or 55 years of age in all respects. Finally, the examination of psychophysical capabilities is also determined on the basis of their age. This proves that these are not exactly the same criteria and that we cannot have them, we must not have them, because an older person cannot have the same psychophysical abilities. He can have them, but in principle it is certainly about change with age alone, and we must take that into account. It would not be right to require them after 50 years to achieve the same standards or the same psychophysical abilities as a 25-year-old, which would be a problem for me. In this law, it is very important to see these new generations coming to an end at the age of 45, that things may even continue, or that they may retain what they have achieved with regard to wages themselves. I do not agree with my colleague, the LMŠ Bear, who says this is not about dignity. You know, it's about dignity. Slovenian armies take years and years of dignity. I remember a while ago when Slovenian soldiers were going for humanitarian packages. Is that dignity? Did we not take their dignity away from them? Or soldiers who went abroad and gave plasma to survive their family. This is a fact and this was the situation in the Slovenian Army. And with this law, we're definitely going with the right solutions. As far as trade unions are concerned, it is a fact, not that they do not support proposals, but we would like more. But for what else we certainly have time in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Pavšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u112	Well, today in the debate again on one side of the branch is an extremely patronizing attitude and ownership of patriotism. And anyone who has doubts can't be a patriot. And we have to cut this thing off once and say that it's not like that if you agree or not. Being a right - hander, a left - hander, or somewhere in the middle does not mean that you have a greater right to patriotism than the one on the opposite side. Another key word in today's debate is dignity. Already in the previous round of discussions, we have heard how some are being insulted by the guards. And what we're doing today is offensive, not just to the guard, but to the entire defense system. Isn't it a pity for the guards to put her in every dog's procession? Have you ever asked the guards if they agree that they are absolutely everywhere? Of course you didn't, they'll go where someone delegates them because they're soldiers and they obey. But why expose them where there's no need, no protocol, no other. And it is from the ranks of New Slovenia that calls come today in some truths. In the summer, your Member claimed that a previous government had listened to him, looked illegally at the records, or even followed him; but so far there has been no mention of his apologizing for being a liar. And now we're going to what we should actually talk about in dealing with this point. Most were very friendly to the minister today, but I will be direct – this bill is a perfect bluff and once again a pear action. Why? The minister's water is flowing into his throat because he was unable to arrange what he was vehemently advocating at all the extraordinary meetings of the committees, the debates that this will be able to arrange everything overnight. Various committees, meetings, debates have been convened in series only because we have wasted time instead of looking for solutions. Now that there's no results after more than six months, what? A flashing pear action. We have two consequences today on the diaper, the first one is this one, the second one will be by the end of this day, so a little bit later on about it. Now let's start with one paradox. According to you, Minister, today we are saving the social situation of soldiers after 45 years. Is that true? Yes, you save the social situation without social dialogue. It's to avoid any responsible policy. There's something to talk about, and there's something else to talk about. Even if you have a person in charge of dialogue with the unions, that doesn't mean you're talking to them, but you're probably just telling them something. And with this proposal; before you stopped at that exact sentence, we all received this letter from the union. Did you think we didn't read it? You stopped by the dot, and then you didn't want to read. Of course not. What does it say? Only partial support for the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia is due, in particular, to the fact that the proposal for amendments has not been coordinated with the unions and does not fully resolve the status of soldiers. Next sentence. The Slovenian Military Union did not even receive an opinion on the amendment of the law and there was no coordination at all. So you've been deceiving yourself again, Minister. That doesn't mean union support. And when they point out the shortcomings of this law, you have also overlooked them, although you are still vehemently saying that this law will not only save social status, but also further employment in the military, especially for young people, and that it does not raise any corruption risk at all. This is what the union warns – a very high corruption risk. And they're gonna write it in fat, and they're gonna tell you why. Because they will depend on their superiors. Corruption is not only a walk of envelopes, but it is also a payment of credit and a service of support or non-support. And again, yes, a pear action, a perfect bluff, a handball solution without any thought. No effort has been made to actually improve this bill. You said something else, whatever we say, which we have concerns, our arguments are irrelevant. The arguments are irrelevant. So you know everything, you know everything. Some Members wondered where the problem was in confirming this law; and that even the law was systemic, but at the same time the proposer asked or his client how to improve the status and how to make the profession even more attractive. So what's the problem with this marriage, to me? Let us now leave aside this political picture of whether someone should declare himself a non-member of the party or not, that is another question. Let's go to the substantive question. Why is this marriage to put out the fire without thinking about what's going to happen tomorrow? Who will pay the difference in the paid grade? Department of Defense. Will it be paid in a gross or net amount? Then we have a very big problem, as we have it in the public administration until the 19th pay grade. We have a difference to minimum wage in the public system until the 19th grade. For employees who do not even reach minimum wage, the state pays the difference to minimum wage by forgetting what will happen in 10, 20, 15 years, as this difference does not take into account the pension base. So we're just putting the responsibility back on some next generation, and we're not actually going to solve the problem, but we're just going to postpone it again. Therefore, it is good to say today that at the Ministry of Defence you will pay a gross amount and add this to the pension base, it will be a little easier to look through the fingers of this completely bluff law; but I do not think this will be the case, because then we do have major problems with the public and single pay system. Better than nothing — that's the only reason I can't oppose the law, but I can't support it either, because it's better than nothing. But then no thanks to write about how it saves, I don't know what else. Yes, it saves the hardship of those people who will reach 45 years in the military this year, but in the long run, far from being systematic. In doing so and in the following law, there is a visible balance and arrogance without any dialogue – not with the social partners or with parliament, without any dialogue insisting on its solution, even with the knowledge that the adoption of this law will create irreparable injustices, which we have been dealing with for 30 years, and every time we are just flicking. And with this patching under this legislation, we will never achieve anything, but we will only place the responsibility of always someone who will come after you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u114	Mr Pavšič, thank you very much for your debate. Some facts, I'm grateful that you admitted that this marriage is worth more than nothing. Certainly this is progress and I am grateful for it. With regard to social dialogue, I would like to inform you that the Secretary of State is in particular in charge of dialogue and communication with trade unions on a permanent basis. The unions have access to it whenever they want, and they can get all the information. About the velocities and similar things you've been talking about, let me remind you that I don't think the Sharchev government has been the most skilled or loyal to social dialogue. If I recall for quite some time, there was no more than a year and a half of social dialogue, because employers left the Economic and Social Council and the laws were also adopted in this Parliament. The law before you solves the issue of soldiers after 45 years in the manner proposed by your Minister Rudi Medved when he was still the Minister of Public Administration, where he wrote in a letter to the Ministry of Defence that this should be resolved in a special, special law for the military Defence Act. At the same time, Article 22 of the Law on Public Servants explicitly states that certain specifics can be regulated in specific special laws. And I think that this specificity that soldiers have is such a specialty that it is appropriate to regulate in a special law, which represents the Defence Act. I am grateful that by your abstention you will also contribute to making the future of Slovenian soldiers better. Since I can read to you today, you'll say I'm pathetic, a few more letters from soldiers who have a particular problem, that's renting housing loans because they have a fixed-term contract. With this solution, we will now allow them to have a secure job — either in the military or in another public service. But what seems crucial to me, most importantly, is that we bear pay grade fairly. You know that in the public system you have some pay grade, that it doesn't matter whether you're in Morse, whether you're in public administration, or you're in public health, it's specifically prescribed for the pay grade, which means that when a soldier goes to another job, he's going to transfer the pay grade with him. And this thing, I think, is perfectly clear. I think we have a duty to do this. You know, we can all work together to make it easier for young people to make decisions about this military profession, if we also speak more encouragingly and positively about the Slovenian Army. If we're painting only negative things day after day, what's wrong, they don't have it, they don't have it, it's probably the best anti-camps for young people to join the Slovenian Army. I don't do the illusion, and like you think I know everything, I don't take all the credit. The fact is, however, that the indicators improved this year compared to 2019. I told you that in 2019 111 people were employed in the military throughout the year. Until a few days ago, till 24. On the 9th, 121 people were employed. So this is 10 more than last year for a year. So far, 150 people have left the army, so we're still about minus 30. In the last year, 345 left. We are working hard to stop this trend and to be in greens at the end of the year, not in red numbers. That is why we set up a working group a while ago to remove bureaucratic obstacles when someone wanted to work in the Slovenian Army. We have found that, for example, if you come forward and want to become a candidate for the Slovenian soldier, the long-term process was on average 92 days. During these 92 days, a number of people have changed their minds, found another job, went to another job, and now we have reduced our procedures by one week's work. So someone comes forward, they do medical examinations in one day, they can also do psychophysical examinations of their ability. All things that are, from medical examinations, security checks and other things, put in one week to minimize that. And I think that this also makes an important contribution to making the numbers a little bit better. And if the army goes well, it will be our common success, which we can only look forward to.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First Mr Robert Pavšič and then Mr Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u116	Mr. Tonin, you don't understand. I said that you do not have social dialogue; and this letter is in fact proof that you do not lead it. You can say here a hundred times that you have a man in charge where unions can get information, but if the union writes, the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia proposes a change of law – watch out, and this law regulates the status of soldiers, it is not just one law, something small, the status of soldiers – and the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia has not received a marriage or an opinion. You didn't even ask for their opinion, but coordination, of course, if you didn't want an opinion, it wasn't. And when you say that it saves status after 45 years; no, selectively, you have to say that, it will not save everyone who will be 45 years old this year, but selectively. And it will depend on the will of the Chief of Staff and you, Minister. You will decide, personally, with the Chief of General Staff, who will get the job and who will not get it. And that is the essential content of this law. But you didn't answer my key question. Will the ministry pay a gross amount and that difference include the pension base or not? Will you also avoid that answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. First, a replica of Mr. Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I need to fill you in, because sometimes you stay somewhere on the bar when you mention this document, which I have really signed as the Minister of Public Administration. Of course, this is the opinion of the Ministry of Public Administration that it is possible to – that – this is possible – these matters that we are dealing with now with with this amendment of the Defence Act, so that this can also be regulated in the field laws. But that was everything in this opinion. This is not an opinion written in the sense that the sectoral law should then be in conflict with the Public Sector Wage System Act. No, it's the opposite. If this is regulated by a sectoral law, it is necessary to comply with other legislation. The Defence Act is indeed adopted by a two-thirds majority, but it is not therefore under the Public Sector Wages Act. This is what we are now pointing out here, when we are not against the resolution of the status of soldiers after the 45th year, precisely this conflict. Of course, it is possible to regulate this in a district law, even if the defence system is, in this case, excluded from the single salary system. This, too, can be regulated in this field law, and that is all that was written in this opinion that we do not deceive. Finally, you will not say that the Ministry of Public Administration in the Sharchev government has instructed the current defence ministry to prepare the solution in such a way that it will not be feasible in practice. Of course that's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The Minister has signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u120	Ambassador Medved, I am extremely grateful to you for this debate today, because I think you have hit the point and you have said everything – that is possible. And since it's possible, that's what we're doing. You also know that the Law on the Public Sector Wage System cannot be supervised by the Defence Act. Pika. So we don't do the commas. And what we are proposing is a possible way to deal with this problem, and this is how we deal with it. Ambassador Pavšič, the gross amounts will be paid by the Ministry of Defence, a framework calculation is made, I think that over the next five years half a million euros will have to be reserved for these things. All you have to do is tell me the first part of how we're going to solve this situation. You were only talking about the group that will continue its career in the military. However, conscientiously release the group that will arrange for them to be provided by the service of other government authorities by transferring the pay grade with them. The military will be fully provided with social security, and those who are needed by the military will continue their careers in the military, those who are in such responsibilities, where there is a greater influx of young people that we can renew, and we will arrange the service in other state bodies by transferring the same wage class. And that's the social security we're talking about. And once again, that's only fair, that's the only thing normal, a soldier, because he served his country, can't be punished with over-employment, just because he's been hired to another state authority, 400 or 300 euros lower. That's not fair, and we're putting an end to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there's still a lot of interest. We're starting the application process. We've got six applications. First, he has the word Violet Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Minister, when I listen to you, it's just evasiveness and assault. And even if you're warned by a soldier's union, you just can't hear. And I'm just gonna read it. I'm not gonna be so smart. The fact that the Minister of Defence constantly violates the rules of social dialogue is written to us by the President of the Union of the Ministry of Defence, the Military Union, defence and protection, the Union of Pilots of the Ministry of Defence. How will you respond to these findings? You are violating the rules of social dialogue, the solutions they propose are unprofessional, unacceptable and contrary to existing practice. And yet you're kicking your head through the wall and saying we're setting you up. They suggested that it should be extended to obtain an indefinite period of time after 45 years. They also propose to repeal the provision in Article 1 of the amendments which discriminates against members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as it provides for the payment of the supplement to be prepared for all signatories to the reservation contract which many members of the permanent army do not have. In short, these things warn you. Why don't you listen to them? The union also cannot understand the position and objective of the government, which ensures that it has serious objectives of solving the human rights problem in the defence field, while rejecting the only acceptable and reasonable solution to enable members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to work indefinitely. Come on, for God's sake, if you're the Secretary of Defense, talk to the soldiers before you come to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word has Natasha Sukić, please. Wait a minute. First, he asked for the word "minister." Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u124	Ambassadors Tomić would quote article 100.b of the Defence Act, which says: «The Syndicate cannot give an opinion on the formation and organization of the army, its equipment, operation, readiness and use. The Union may not give an opinion on acts of military leadership and command, or its opinions for the Minister and Chief of Staff and others in charge are optional.”
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, chairman. The arrogance and, I can tell, the inability of this government has indeed exceeded all limits. There is almost no law that would not be constitutionally disputed at some point that would not be in conflict with existing legislation. And now we have come so far as to see clearly that there was no social dialogue at all in such important matters as regulating the status of soldiers and soldiers after 45 years of age. Pika. He wasn't there. I have here a letter from three of the four unions, and their introduction is this: "Dear, related to the proposed amendments to the ZOB and the fact that the Minister of Defence is constantly violating the rules of social dialogue, please reconsider the urgent changes that we have been alerting the defence union for many years. The solutions proposed are, according to our assessment, highly unprofessional and unacceptable and contrary to existing jurisprudence." And so on. They point to one thing that I have not heard in the debate right now that the proposed proposal does not provide for the payment of an allowance to be made to all signatories to the contract for members of the contractual reserve, provides for 20%; however, many members of the permanent composition do not have. This simply means that members of the PRS will be paid for a condition they will never be in. Contrary to this, many members of the permanent composition are placed in a status of permanent availability and availability and, for example, do not have any supplement to prepare. It's also one dimension you haven't said anything about. And of course they can't understand, and here you are making up, Minister, so that you can save the soldier and the soldier from getting credit. You won't, because they still don't have a contract for an indefinite period of time. They have only some vague promise that after the 45th year, some sort of selection will be made and that they may land in public administration, which is, of course, constitutionally controversial in other respects, as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. They still do not have an indefinite contract and will have the same problem when they go to the bank to regulate the loan. You've made up your mind before so that you can solve their credit situation. You won't. And another absurdity is this forecasted politicization. The fact that the Minister uses an argument – czech; some domestic, human discourse, because we are only legitimizing what is already happening in practice, where it is not checked that they are members of political parties. Please. Is that some wild Wild West?Oh, my God! Is it because this is happening in practice, where what should be implemented is not being implemented, that you will now legislate something that is happening against the existing law?Oh, my God! Please! And don't tell me that with this too – I'm very sorry to mention this again, but I've been getting a lot deeper into this topic lately – you've opened the door to the entrance of the Slovenian guard through Shiškov's party. What do you think?Oh, my God! They're also members of the Shišk party. And they'll be happy to come there, and yet they're no longer considered a crime, but they'll just be a crime. What then, they have a few misdemeanors behind them, and then they'll make a nice run through Shiškov's client and anchor themselves in the Slovenian Army's reserve. Where do we live? The fact that you simply do not take into account the Legislative and Legal Service, which warns you about these salaries in the system of public servants and also in the absence of calls for employment, I do not know, the Legislative and Legal Service is not a factor. Three out of four Slovenian Army unions, and that fourth didn't really give you a positive opinion. They're not a factor either. The constitution is not a factor, nothing is a factor. And then you make it up and you build your arguments on various insinuations and accusations of the party Levica which warns of this. That's the easiest thing to say, because the Left party is always up against everything that's about defence. That's not true. We are talking here about the status of soldiers and soldiers and their labour rights. And you don't really save them or save them selectively. Excuse me, those who will allow a two-thirds majority either with abstinence or by pressing the key for someone who really isn't saving anything, but will again cause some new injustices and imbalances and I don't know what to do, excuse me, I'm asking you to reconsider. Of course, it is necessary to save the status of soldiers and soldiers, but not in such a handiwork and not in such a constitutionally controversial and slippery way as you go. It's not a solution, and I really don't understand this rush. Take another month or two, have a social dialogue. The parties that are somehow thinking of landing today, consider whether we are really so far away that it is no longer important or the Constitution, not social dialogue, not anything. No clever argument here is valid anymore, but apparently they are in the game of insinuation, of drowning – this is all true. This is now the Holy Grail of this National Assembly. One more call, respectable and respected. Two thirds. There is no need for a two-thirds majority in such sensitive matters. And you're so happy to toying with things that aren't funny. Think carefully before you press the "for" button. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Tonin asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u128	Ambassador Sukic, how do you imagine social dialogue? I imagine it in a way that unions, employers and, say, the government are talking to each other. And social dialogue can never be a thing that only one, i.e. only the union side, applies, but is always a compromise. And you say there was no social dialogue. I can now read to you a letter from the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia, where they write – Years ago, we requested the Ministry of Defence, and above all, the retention of wages at the level achieved after the age of 45. Up to EUR 500 is lost at the time of the 45 years of civil service distribution in the Slovenian Army, and so on. And now listen to this part, the union writes this, this is not what I invented – in the social dialogue of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, we have warned that the bill does not deal with degraded soldiers in the past years. They wrote down a union to partially support this law. They have a problem with that because soldiers don't get rid of it. So the social dialogue, my dear Member, was. But on the one hand, I have the General Staff of the Slovenian Army, who wants young soldiers. On the other hand, I have a union defending the position of the current soldiers. And I think that the law is an absolute compromise between what the General Staff of the Slovenian Army wants and what the military unions want. This is that all will have ensured social security after 45 years, some transferred to other public services, others by continuing their careers in the Slovenian Army. I can't imagine a different, better social dialogue. And one more thing. Ambassador Sukič, I ask you kindly, it is not difficult for you to open the Service Act in the Slovenian Army and read yourself Article 16 of this law because your accusations are really incorrect. However, they are incorrect because the law, not a regulation, does not prescribe a minister's regulation, but the law stipulates that any political action in the Slovenian military is prohibited. Even more, soldiers in uniform must not attend meetings or any other meeting of the party. Be so honest and read article 16 of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army and you will find that you simply scare with things that do not exist. And now, about your calls, if you don't mind. I still have a vivid memory today because I talked to her very much, an attempt by former Minister Katič, who prepared a good, comprehensive amendment to the Defence Act years ago. The opposition spoke, time given, time given, time given, let's think about it, let's think about it. In the end, time ran out and the attempt failed. That's the problem. And now with these extensions, if it's still time, I see that things are going in the same direction as in the case of Minister Katič. After the hard work, after the intense work, many attempts, the matter fell. But people are waiting. In the coming months, some will be 45 years old and it is crucial for them to adopt this law, every day here counts. It's about people, and if there is, then we should understand that in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you very much. A replica or a debate, Member Sukich? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u130	The respected minister, the unions – we, the Swedish Federation, the SPMO – have clearly stated that you are in constant violation of the rules of social dialogue. Please don't fool and don't lie. It's about people, yeah, so their status needs to be resolved. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u131	Colleague, that's not a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u132	That's appropriate. [[…]] It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u133	This is a debate. Excuse me, this is a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u134	That's a replica of his claims.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u135	It's not a replica because he didn't get you. He didn't get you wrong. Let's move on with the reports. [[advertising from the hall]] We're moving on with the reports. It's just Bevk. Look, I can only give you a reminder because you've abused it because you disobeyed the rules of procedure. The replica is in case someone doesn't understand you correctly and you're talking about the debate. You had a debate, not replicas. [[advertising from the hall]] You can't because you don't have time anymore. You're watching a little bit too, not just talking. It's just Bevk, please. [[advertising from the hall]] How? The minister asked for an extra word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u136	Ambassador Sukich, explain to me once again who I now believe. You're saying that social dialogue wasn't written by the unions; but I have before me, look, I can tell you, too. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I give you a letter from the military union on 29 September, where they write, see, read to each other, write – we are in social dialogue with the secretary of state and so on [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] You say you have a letter here where they say there was no social dialogue; but here we have a letter from the union, where they say that they resolved matters in the social dialogue. [[advertising from the hall]] But that means it's not true what you're trying to say that we don't talk to the unions that there's no dialogue. I understand your point that you're on the union side. There is no problem, but allow me to conduct social dialogue in an appropriate manner. This means that I am obliged to take into account the interests of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and also of the trade unions. And that's exactly what we did. But you can't tell me that there was no social dialogue; and you're reading this despite one of the unions writing that something was done in the social dialogue. That's all I'm asking for is correctness.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I'm going to support the new Defence Act, I've already said that in previous procedures. I have studied and considered this law thoroughly enough, as well as my decision. In the parliamentary group we also accepted representatives of the trade unions who are in the Slovenian Army, talked to them and presented their position to them, as they presented their position. But I think they got into the process too late, because when they asked us to cooperate, it was already too late to make any amendments. Why would I support this marriage? I will not only support this law because it regulates the status of soldiers after 45 years of age, but also because it opens the perspective of young generations, that they may seek employment in the Slovenian Army. However, I had previously heard from my colleague Rebecca that Minister Tonin would be the first minister to solve this, but that other ministers or ministers would only speak. Member Bah also said and called us for responsible policy in the National Assembly. I don't know what a more responsible policy could be if, at this modest point in the status of soldiers after 45 years, we can reach consensus in the National Assembly, because a two-thirds majority of the Members and Members present are needed. Now I would say the following; Minister Tonin will not solve this problem. He just suggested how to solve this problem. This problem will be solved by the National Assembly if it today has the political will to adopt this solution by a two-thirds majority of the Members present. And there's something else I'd like to say about responsible policy in the National Assembly. I would like to remind you of the mandate of 2014–2018, when the Defence Department was headed by Minister Andrej Katič, Social Democrat. In September 2017, she sent a comprehensive amendment to the Defence Act, which solved many of the open problems of the Defence Department, the Slovenian Armed Forces, and, among other things, almost identically addressed the status of soldiers after 45 years of age. This was a comprehensive law, not only was it the law of three, four, five articles like this, but I hope that we will reach consensus on this law. What happened to this law in the previous term? The first hearing was successful; after the general debate 55 Members and Members supported this solution, only 6 of them were present at 75. However, this was no longer the case, for — paradoxically — the largest coalition and largest opposition parties have united and blocked the adoption of this law. If then, three years ago, this law was passed, we would see today whether this solution is drinking water or not after three years; whether the number of Slovenian soldiers and soldiers has increased or not. I believe the answer is yes. And what happened instead of the second treatment? Instead of the second reading, the Members and Members of the largest opposition and the largest coalition party proposed a public presentation of their opinions, after the resignation of Prime Minister Mir Cerar, so that all of this had stopped, early elections had come and the legislative procedure had been halted. So much for responsible politics in the National Assembly. Let me take a look back. As it is said, I have decided on a state-of-the-art attitude, put narrow party and selfish political interests aside and I will vote in favour of this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is wanted by Minister Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u140	Ambassador Bevk is absolutely right – this solution will be accepted and settled by the National Assembly and cannot be done without the participation of the opposition and the coalition. That is why, of course, I am very grateful to the opposition parliamentary groups – the Social Democrats, the Alenka Bratušek Party and the Slovenian National Party, which, in addition to the coalition, announced that this law would be supported and, of course, also the MP of the national minority. I think it's certainly responsible and state-of-the-art. However, it must also be acknowledged that it was certainly a very good attempt by Minister Katič, and I stress this several times in my discussions. I also point out that the articles we have now proposed are practically copy-paste of what Minister Katičev has done; from now on, it is a terribly problematic article that talks about political parties to other things. We can only succeed here with collective strength. Now, I will say very directly, if I may have been inclined at the beginning of this meeting to adopt an amendment, now I hope that no amendment will be adopted, because only if all the amendments are rejected will this law be finally adopted today to see the light of the world. Because I see where the dog taco prays, because I feel that after today's debate and after some who have engaged very late and are now very active, all things are once again leading to the end, just before the present will run out of votes. That's why I think this law needs to be put under the roof today, because it might be a few days too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. My colleague Michael Prevc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! When I received this proposal for the Defence Act on the table, which essentially provides some long-term financial and, above all, the social security of the Slovenian soldier, I was convinced that this was the law that would not only receive the two-thirds support necessary for the adoption of this law, but a hundred percent support. I am not surprised when I am listening to this debate today, and I do not really understand why such opposition to some of this law is. Normally, of course, I agree, parliamentary democracy is one that allows for different opinions; and this is also allowed in this law. But today I feel that a priori opposes this law, especially by two parties. Above all, it is the party of the Left who, with such proposals and other proposals, wants to break this law. And it is normal for me to get the sense that in this opposition to the law, which nevertheless brings to our soldiers some optimism and some dignity that they need, that someone really wants our army badly or that someone really wants the abolition of the Slovenian Army. Today you have two concerns on the left hand side and on the SD client. One is social dialogue, namely that social dialogue has not been concluded. Dear colleagues from the Left, if you already oppose this law, because it is proposed by a government that you do not support, I must tell you that tonight in New Slovenia we will support your law – the law on closing trade. And by the way, we all know well that no social dialogue has been concluded in this law, unfortunately. In New Slovenia, we wanted this social dialogue very much, but unfortunately it is not. Maybe just a little nostalgia. When we talk about the Slovenian Army, when we talk about the Slovenian soldier, I remember the 1980s when I served a compulsory military term in the then Yugoslav People's Army; in an army that was 10 years later an aggressor over the Slovenian nation. At that time, we Slovenian soldiers dreamed of how nice it would be to be able to serve the military deadline in Slovenia, in our country, in the Slovenian Army. In this passion, a friend of mine told me if I had a son in my life, but I really want to serve as an army in the Slovenian Army. Look, this dream has come true. That's what we've been waiting for. We have the Slovenian Army, we have the professional Slovenian Army, and let us be proud of this army. But we in the National Assembly have a wonderful opportunity to do something for the Slovenian Army. The law we have before us today means a stone in the mosaic of this story. Allowing a Slovenian soldier after 45 years to keep – only – the same wage class he had before is the least we can do for a Slovenian soldier. And that will certainly be what will help us to once achieve the plan, as had already been decreed before, 8 thousand soldiers in five, six years; and that will not happen what is happening now, to somehow activate 100 new military professions a year, while 300 soldiers leave the Slovenian Army. This can't be happening. And as far as the problem is concerned, with this payroll system, I don't think that's true. The salary system as long as it has been no longer exists, and today we have also heard that this cannot be an obstacle, since it is also for the Ministry or the district law to solve these problems in this law. Once again, it really is not necessary that when we want to do something for the Slovenian Army, for Slovenian soldiers, the atmosphere in this room should be lifted needlessly. I really hope that after the vote today we will walk proud of this hall and that we will say - but today we have done something for the Slovenian Army, not just to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u144	Yeah, thanks again. Minister, you're getting involved in the opposites. On the one hand, you say that all soldiers have a future. Why, then, if it is automaticism — whether it is continuing a career in the military or continuing in other departments — if it is automaticism, why do you categorically reject contracts for indefinite periods of time? Because if they are not, then this argument of renting housing loans is also discarded because it will have to wait again and again on the 45th birthday, i.e. on this crucial date. This is also one kind of deceiving to future and present soldiers. You have to admit that. And when you talk about social dialogue in regulating social status, it is necessary, social dialogue in this case is this law. And this is what the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia is talking about, that the amendments to the law did not even get an opinion, and there was no coordination at all. And apparently you're still a Member. When you first referred to a 100.b section of the Defence Act. You cited the second indent, the second sentence: “The Syndicate cannot give an opinion on the acts of military leadership and command, or its opinions for the Minister and Chief of Staff and others in charge are optional.” The following paragraph should read: "The union, irrespective of the preceding paragraph, gives an opinion on the elements which are the basis for determining wages for defence workers, on the comparability with public sector wages." You didn't even ask them about this law. So you broke your own defense law. You didn't even ask them for their opinion. And it's nice of you to admit that the proposal of today's copy-paste law is the previous solutions. At first, you claimed that this was by the Minister of Public Administration of Medveda, and before that, Minister Katič. And then you wonder why we don't support the law. He's missing a lot. But like I said before, he's better than nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u146	Ambassador Pavšič, I have before me a letter from the military union that I have quoted today, which reads: “We have warned in the social dialogue ” and so on. [[…]] That's one thing. That's another thing. Social dialogue is always made up of different partners, and as Minister I am obliged to take account not only of trade unions but also of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and I have done so appropriately.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic also has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Let me start by listening to what I've been hearing in recent months, is that Levica really wants to decommission the Slovenian Army, anyway. He wants to end or break down those two foundations of democracy that are based on security and freedom. I've been listening to this for months. I believe that this brings some specific political points, as in 2014 it brought political points to the "minimum Member", "new faces", but we now find that the Levica is growing in Parliament, which means that it is increasingly on parliamentary salaries, and, of course, they are also getting older. Some would like to abolish the Slovenian Army, so I understood the gentleman's school. As a country, I think we need a good, capable, trained army. Just for the sake of the above, for the sake of safety and for the sake of freedom. I think that if everyone had read the parliamentary questions in the last five, six, seven years relating to the regulation of the status of Slovenian soldiers after 45 years, we might be having a slightly different discussion today. In recent years, we have physically received a number of visits from soldiers who have been at the threshold of 45 years, thus also ending the working relationship. One part of them could also be covered by additional payments, according to the third pillar, and this could be extended by one year, but then they were 46, 47 years old and were again at the Employment Institute. Once again, if the Members who oppose this law were to take a look at what has happened in recent years and read a number of Members' questions — including mine — then we would see that it is high time for these matters to be settled. I support things to be settled, of course this is the first step. And so I also understood the letter they gave from the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia and quote: “Today the amendments to the Defence Act in the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia are partly supported.” They're backing him up. “We actively support them because soldiers at the age of 45 will no longer go to the Employment Institute and will retain the salary achieved regardless of whether they will continue to work in the Slovenian Army or in the State Administration.” I believe that this is a key answer and a key message, given the many questions you have in your base. That they will no longer go to the Employment Institute and retain the level of salary achieved, whether they continue to work in the Slovenian Army or in the State Administration. However, what might have been done in the past, as has already been said today, will change for them, but it has not yet been done. I think the time has come for us to be able to resolve this together, and that we will all be able to help against these soldiers' tribulations together. Men were also said to be full of power at age 45. It is true and I am pleased that the Slovenian Army is concerned that its soldiers are mentally, physically, in good condition, but, if we look at it, the hand on the heart, between 45 and 20, 25 years old, there are some differences and it is right to allow the Slovenian soldier to continue his professional career after 45 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Anyone else? I see there's still interest in the application. Please sign up. Magus first. Andrej Reich, Marijan Pojbič cannot discuss it because time is no longer available. Here you go, mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Indeed, the reputation of the Slovenian soldier is linked to the status and position of the Slovenian soldier. The fact that his status has not been regulated since the 45th year is likely to have affected the fact that the interest in military service and military service has not been very high and has not attracted many young people who would otherwise have chosen this profession as their profession and mission. Of course, I support this proposal. I support it to ensure that the status of soldiers after 45 years of age is regulated so that soldiers, when they are 45 years of age, do not find themselves alone on the stock market, but that the state can somehow help them to use the knowledge and skills they have acquired during military education and service. And I am sure that the useful work of the soldiers, of course, is also done internally. I can agree that some soldiers are more physically prepared than others at the age of 45, but in fact this year is somehow set. We can ask ourselves why he's fit for up to 44.9 years, but not after 45.1 years. This is a matter of discussion, but it is so arranged and it is right that after this year we will allow the soldiers to take advantage of the knowledge and skills they acquire throughout the public sector during the course of their service. I deeply regret the thought of leaving soldiers even after 45 years of service exclusively in the Slovenian Army, especially in the fact that there is simply no suitable work in the Slovenian Army after a certain age for them. Such a relationship, I will say a demeaning attitude towards the Slovenian soldier, that he should get paid to do nothing, of course he is not encouraging and I do not agree with it. I would also like to touch on the debate on housing loans. I regret that there is only one condition in banks for granting an unlimited loan of employment. Who today guarantees that you will have a job in 10 years, even if you have a job in the public sector for an indefinite period? These are things we need to solve somewhere else and address. I am confident that this proposal, which we are considering today, will bring us closer to respecting the profession of the soldier and that it will be respected. And I am also pleased that in society the image of the Slovenian Army is trying to show in a positive sense that educated people are being invited to show that young people also have a career opportunity in the Slovenian Army, and that the unfortunate statements that we have also heard in the National Assembly, that those who do not know what they are doing will never again go to the military in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian military in the years 2021 to 2026 in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister of Magi. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u152	Dear Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Since 2008, the defence sector has paid the highest price in this company during the crisis. Not a single sector in the country has paid as much a price as a defense, an army. Since 2010, the defence budget of the Republic of Slovenia has practically halved. We have not yet reached the level that we have reached in 2010. Security is an important asset, and without security, all other things make no sense. Each sovereign country, including the Republic of Slovenia, must take care of its own security. However, we can only ensure our own safety by providing adequate personnel for members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and also by equipping them accordingly. With one important segment that talks about human resources and personnel in the Slovenian Army, we dealt with the Defence Act this afternoon. In the second part of the afternoon, we have before us a law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army by 2026. This law is crucial that we can adequately equip the Slovenian Army, and above all to correct old injustices. As Chief General Staff Brigadier Glavas said, this is not money to go forward, this is the money that the Slovenian Army needs to go back. This is the money this company owes to the military in return. Compared to the plans so far, this law in some way brings EUR 300 million over the next six years, which is about 50 million per year additional, which is identical to what was adopted in the Central Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2018-2023, which was adopted in April 2018. In the next six years, we will spend €780 million on investments in the Slovenian Army. In comparison with some countries, in Slovenia, we allocate about 200 euros and several more to the population for security, and in us comparable countries such as Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, citizens spend between 400 and 500 euros on citizens. The difference is obvious and the difference is important. We are obliged to take care of our own safety, so by this law we allocate funds first for the soldiers, for the proper equipment of our soldiers, their personal equipment. We also spend money on building our home infrastructure. We're talking about warlocks that were all built in the previous regime, the past times that are now long and old. We are talking about the acquisition of two military transport helicopters, which will be used primarily for military tasks, but of course they will also relax and relieve the white ones, which we also use for other tasks such as mountain rescue, intervention in case of protection, rescue and so on. We are also planning to purchase a transport aircraft so that as a society we will be more self-sufficient and not in the most difficult times depend on our partners and our friends around us, so that we will know how to take care of ourselves. And then we get to the security vehicles for our soldiers. This number is minimized to the lowest possible extent, but of course we are responsible for the safety of our soldiers to be taken care of both at home and abroad. The key and most important point and mission of the Slovenian Armed Forces is under the Defence Protection Act, and another important point is security in our area. And that's why we need these vehicles to keep our boys safe. It costs security, of course, and that's why this law is before you today. I hope you will support it, because it follows all those documents that were accepted in this house before the time of this government, and because it also follows the letter sent by former Prime Minister Sharec to Secretary General Nat Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Defence Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Sam Bevk to present the report to the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! At its 18th emergency meeting on 3 September 2020, the Defence Committee considered the proposal for a law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army from 2021 to 2026, the second hearing sent by the Government to the National Assembly. At its 43rd extraordinary meeting on 16 July 2020, the National Assembly adopted a conclusion that the draft law was appropriate for further consideration. On behalf of the applicant, the Minister for the Defence of Magi presented the introductory addition to the explanation of the draft law. Matthew Tonin, who presented the main objectives and main solutions to the bill. The basic objective of the proposal for a law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army between 2021 and 2026 is to provide funding on a planned scale and following the planned dynamics for the establishment of the most important military capacity to fulfil the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces and to participate in the collective defence system. The law will provide funds to make the most important investments in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021-2026. The law will regulate spending of €780 million, with annual spending of €100 million over the first two years and 145 million per year over the next four years. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Helena Rus, said that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia had examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and had made a comment on Article 4 of the Law, which stipulated that the law was not limited in time. Slovenian Army Chief of Staff Robert Glavas pointed out that there has been virtually no investment in the personnel, equipment and infrastructure of the Slovenian Army in the past 12 years. He stressed, however, that as Chief of Staff for such investments, it is only possible to carry out the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces as defined in the strategic documents and to turn the development curve of the Slovenian Armed Forces from regressive to progressive. However, the President of the Commission of the National Council of State, Rajko Fajt, said that the Commission was in favour of the bill. In the debate, the proposaler and the discussors of the coalition of parliamentary groups highlighted their preference for the modernisation and strengthening of the Slovenian Armed Forces, while the opposition's representatives were detained in their performances or opposed to the bill. The opposition MPs took the lead in evading the coalition's representatives by proposing a bill and avoiding a broader public debate or public presentation of opinions. On the contrary, members of the coalition rejected the allegations that the Government intended to invest heavily in the military at the expense of investing in health care and other subsystems, pointing out that it was not a divisive health or safety system because the government would take care of both. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to Article 4 of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 43rd extraordinary meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the reviews of the amendments tabled on 28 May. 9. 2020. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I see it's an interest, so we'll start the application process. First he gets the word Andrej Chernigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u156	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Since we have already presented our views on the previous consideration of the law, today we are only discussing amendments. In accordance with parliamentary practice, however, I would like to discuss the whole law a little bit more in the first amendment tabled. By law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026, the Slovenian armies are restoring the dignity and the city they belong to and deserve in Slovenian society. The Slovenian army consists of Slovenian girls and boys who have dressed up military uniforms for unconditional service of our only country. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the Slovenian soldier, with the constant reduction of the defence budget, cannot be well trained or equipped, thereby endangering his life and reducing the seriousness of the defence of the Republic of Slovenia. We have been late for 15 years in Slovenia with such investments, so there is absolutely no justification to make such purchases fast. The words of the former Chief-General of the Slovenian Army, Major General Alen Geder, remind us that if we do not take a timely systemic action, we will very soon not have the Slovenian Army. Defence Minister Matthew Tonin is aware of the weight of the burden he was entrusted with, so he started a wide dialogue and debate at the temple of democracy on 24 June this year. He visited all the parliamentary groups that wanted to accept him, only the Left Group did not find the courage to meet and talk. But the door stays open. The necessary law will provide funds for the implementation of the most important investments in the Slovenian Army, in the first two years after 100 million euros and in the next four years after 145 million euros. With this law, the Government follows only the fundamental defence and strategic documents adopted by the previous left governments, including the supra-government party Levica at the helm. However, the Minister of Defence did not want to remain only in his words and decided to carry them out. It did not order new and expensive and overpaid studies or strategies, but took from the drawer the white book of the previous government, where it was determined that the complete equipment of the Slovenian Army would require more than EUR 3 billion. The Ministry of Defence does not have this money, but they have managed to narrow down and optimize the necessary equipment. The law is transparent and clearly indicates a vision of means of investment in the Slovenian Army. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats, we claim that the proposed investments in the Slovenian Army are in the current composition the minimum we need to ensure if we want to maintain the Slovenian Army. Security is not free, but in New Slovenia we are convinced that NATO is the cheapest insurance policy. The defence expenditure of non-NATO countries, such as Austria and Switzerland, is significantly higher. Military neutrality does not mean less, but more spending on defense. By 2030, neutral Switzerland will only spend 7.4 billion euros on new aircraft and long-range ground defence systems. So the Slovenians at the referendum on the accession to the relationship then decided wisely, but also rationally. Slovenia wants to be a reliable member of the international community. It is in Slovenia's strategic interest to ensure international peace and stability. Our most numerous mission, three quarters of all troops on missions, is not at other ends of the world, but in the Balkans, because we are aware of the seriousness of the situation there. Slovenia wants to be a credible partner in NATO and we have therefore committed ourselves in previous governments to increasing the defence budget and equipment of the Slovenian Army. The well-equipped and human resources-completed Slovenian Army is not the last thing we need because of ourselves. Although we do not feel securely threatened within the country, the situation is slightly different at our Schengen border, from where I come from, and a few more hours of driving away, we enter into a much different, security very uncertain situation. In New Slovenia – we do not deceive Christian Democrats citizens and citizens with lies and populism. We will never agree to the demagogy that some are spreading — that it is necessary to decide between health and cannons. There is no dilemma for New Slovenia. We'll take care of both in the current government. Much of this will also be achieved through the EUR 10.5 billion European funds. Slovenia and the people at the border need a well-equipped army. After many years of inactivity of the former Defence Ministers, Matthew Tonin, with the law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army, finally restores dignity and the future of a key security force in our country. That's why I'm going to support this marriage. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you very much. There is a colleague, Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you. If we now believe exactly every word that has just been said, then dignity is one commodity that can be bought by the euro. The dignity of our army has long been earned, and as I know it, it has never lost it. But if that's what you think, dear fellow, then these are your assumptions. The second question is whether we are investing enough in the defence area, and here we can all agree that we are not. But for this, the Minister does not need a new law that will well mark the following budgets of this country, which goes beyond the mandate of this government and these elections. During the record, the largest budget deficit in the history of our young country, the Minister easily uses the support of the Government and coalition parties to devote 780 million to the purchase of arms and military equipment. If we are realistic, Minister Tonin has done nothing in his field since 13 March. Although he lost some trucks on customs that were long gone, he lost himself in the purchasing system of the protective equipment of Minister Restoration along with the entire government and lost another troop of soldiers alongside the truck. In fact, the following events are a real indicator of the success of Minister Tonin and the Slovenian government. Before anything is done, it is necessary to boast, and then, when there are no results, to look for reasons, excuses, and external enemies. Six months ago, all your solutions were clear. You have been vehemently saying that everything is perfectly clear to you and that you know exactly how you will address, not only address, but also solve all the problems in the defence department. What are the real results? You failed to stop the trend of reducing the number of soldiers, although you claim that there are 10 more than there were in last year. Ten soldiers? Let's just be real, please. You agreed to a reduction in your own resources. This was confirmed further in the government, and at the letter meeting on Sunday, the rebalancing was also confirmed by your parliamentary group. And remember, in this balance of 31 million you lost, 8 million lost the system of protection and rescue. You have not performed any more resilient purchases of the necessary equipment, but now you are transferring the long-term rough orifice of purchases in the coming years to this institution. In the Marjan Sarca Group, we are aware of the importance of maintaining and building the defence system, but in a thoughtful, efficient way based on realistic assessments and public financial capabilities. Minister, you have consistently stressed the urgency and sense of certain investments, such as helicopters and military personal equipment. We also believe that these purchases, which I have just mentioned, make sense and support in the given circumstances. In times when the Minister is not able to stop the outflow of personnel from the military, and in times of a multi-billion-dollar deficit, it is irresponsible to plan such a large expenditure within a period exceeding the mandate of this government. We therefore propose an amendment to enable the Ministry to make immediate purchases of multi-purpose equipment or investments with which human resources, logistics and infrastructure objectives can be achieved. To put it more simply, with the adoption of this amendment, Minister Tonin will be able to immediately begin the procedures for the procurement of helicopters, which we can thus obtain in the following year. So we can immediately realize what you've actually proposed this law for. But if we go back a step, the basis of the military budget lies in these two words: the military budget. First the crutch, then the cow. Let us first adopt a budget that will at least partially support these 780 million Euros of the Minister of Defence's wish, and then we can talk further. At this point, because we do not know where something will come from – but do not make excuses for European funds – you cannot make excuses for European funds. In the rebalancing you also confirmed 70 million euros less for the SVRK this year, which means that since 13 March the SVRK could not work because you took 90% of its funds away. So, everything that was intended to be pumped this year in the coming years went to the frags. Leave the European funds, let us rely on ourselves, if you say so, and we must rely on ourselves for security. But then put the budget documents on the table for the next two years and tie this law to the next two years, that is to say this mandate, and then we can really talk about wishes and options.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Tonin asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u160	Ambassador Pavšič, I have to challenge you because you have incorrect information. I believe that you say a lot of things in the opposition's passion that you don't hold, but in spite of everything. I said that — unless you separate what the company is and what the platoon is — I allow it if you are not a military language skill, but nevertheless the difference between the company and the water is quite important. I told you earlier that in the last year, 2019, when you were still in power, about 350 members left the army, about 110 of them came. However, I said that by the end of September we had improved this number, so it is said that up to now 10 candidates have been employed more than in the whole of 2019. I hope you're listening, they didn't get 10 jobs, but they got 121. And here trends are certainly improving, I would be glad if you were with me in Vipava, where these first positive trends have already shown because we had a training course, I think, 75 candidates for the Slovenian Army. This has certainly been a record in recent years. So here your debate was not correct. If you want to say it, then you have to compare it now in the context of 2019. Compared to 2019, we are certainly better now and we have reversed these negative human resources trends. But I said, given the number of those who left, and those who came, we're still 30 people behind, and we're going to do everything we can to put an end to this backlog by the end of the year. With regard to the defence budget and investments that I'm not supposed to make. The Sharcha government has grown to stop the defence investments. Remember that Member of the Left has conditioned that precisely certain defence investments will be stopped because otherwise the Sharčev government will not receive or Marjan Sarec will not be elected Prime Minister of the Government. If Left had not been so blackmailed or if you had not agreed to this blackmail, most likely there would have been a large part of the problem of eight - wheeled people today. About those helicopters you were talking about. One thing wasn't prepared or investment plans or any plans when I came to the Ministry to do these things, nothing. We're starting at zero. Where are we going to get the funds, or where are they going to come from — yes, from the state budget, and from where? We can't go anywhere else. First, we will prove ourselves in this government with budgets for 2021 and 2022 that this law, which we are adopting today, will be respected. However, this law is needed to enable my successors to continue these things and investments, to ensure some predictability, not every two years or every year a different and reversed story. Because it takes predictability in the military. Even if we get some vehicles, we need a garage, we need people to train, mechanics, drivers, that's the whole process. And if we are to build the Slovenian Army seriously, we need to ensure its predictability, and this law ensures its predictability. With regard to the resources you despise, once again. Look, you have highlighted as a great achievement of the White Paper. Your former, not yet former, current European Member Grošelj wrote this white book, which was adopted, and you write in between the measures under item 2 below: “Secondly increase defence spending by an approximation of 2% of GDP and a share of investments of at least 20% of defence expenditure.” Then you have the 14th item of the Defence Act, which says: "Prepare the legal solutions for the implementation of key Slovenian Army equipment projects." That's exactly what we're doing. That's exactly what we're doing. What you've been saying, we're doing now, and now we're being strongly criticised for it. Your party president wrote to Secretary General Stoltenberg that by 2024 we would reach 2% of GDP [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] 1.5%, thank you very much for the repair, yes. 1.5% of GDP for defence expenditure – that is exactly what we are doing with this law. Exactly what the former prime minister wrote. By this law, we want to provide this country with some credibility that it has long since lost. All kinds of things were written in strategic papers, and they were never implemented. And then we get a variety of reviews of our investments and these things, and our allies say it's simply not fair to put the costs of our defence on taxpayers of other countries, that they have enough for other taxpayers to pay for our defence. If the nominal amounts mean nothing to you, take a close look at how much they give in individual countries for defence. With us comparable Estonia, which is even smaller, once more. If we give 200 and a few more euros for security per capita, they give 400 and something else. Latvia, Lithuania, all these countries are much better than us. We're on the tail. Compared to. Even so-singed neutrality on the left side. Let's take a look at this last referendum in Switzerland, how much money they spend on security and defence. This was accepted at the referendum. Go see how much they give in Austria, Finland and so on. Much more, but I'm not talking about nominal amounts now, because there are larger countries, I'm talking about the amounts per capita. Therefore, I say that the time has come when we must take care of our own safety, because others will no longer take care of our safety. If we don't finally start investing in the defense system after a decade of stagnation, it's going to fail. And it's not fair and it's not right to say whether or not we're gonna do it. Every serious country must develop all systems, health, social, defence, security and so on. That's like me saying, now tell me, do you prefer the police or do you prefer the military? We need both structures, and both things need to be financed. We are aware of the circumstances, we are aware of the facts in which we live, and at the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, a calculation has been made that if only what we have accepted in the documents adopted in this House, in the National Assembly, we would need 3 billion euros. Of course, these 3 billion are not, we rationalized as much as possible. And once again, let's start with people. Soldier's equipment. Second thing. I warmly invite you, Members, who want to come with me to see the troops of the Slovenian Army. You're gonna cry! It blows through the windows inside, the roof is such that sometimes if the rain falls, what kind of thing to plant. They were made in the '60s, '70s. These barracks need to be levelled and new ones built on these foundations, we need them. It's about helicopters. With regard to helicopters, this is the situation – when some lunatics are doing what we are now going to do to this baby, a newborn baby and so on – the Slovenian Army has moved 135 newborns into incubators in the last three years! Don't make fun of me and make a fool of me. Mountain rescuers say that for our environment, the best white helicopters are 412 for our situation. Working machines, stable machines that are most suitable for our environment, for our mountains. But if we want to give them deliberately for mountain rescue, protection and rescue, then it's clear that the military has to provide some compensation, and that means absolutely some other helicopters and we do it. Transporter plane. We have been buying it since 2006, and we absolutely need it. As far as helicopters are concerned, let me mention it. You've been in power for quite some time, you've been promising three helicopters since the beginning, and I think three helicopters could be here today. Don't throw everything at me now, you know, how I missed it all now and did it. Now we get to these famous armored vehicles. I would ask the Secretary of State if he could only find me information on how many of these vehicles other countries have, because it's obviously a blasphemous word in Slovenia. Of course, she also had a bit of a turbulent history. We do not buy offensive, strictly offensive weapons in terms of new F-35. We don't buy new tanks, what some people say. But we're buying armored vehicles to get the soldiers safely from point A to point B. If we didn't have these vehicles, we'd have several soldiers returned to our homeland in the trenches. And life doesn't have a price for me. As Minister, I have a duty to ensure the safety of the soldiers. We don't mess around, I don't know, with hundreds of cars, we want to have as many as we can and as badly need. This is our desire and it is our duty to ensure that our soldiers are safe. When some people talk and pretend to be crazy about not being able to drive these vehicles in Slovenian August and in the woods – is it true? Isn't Poček Slovenian August and the forest? We got up there on the Pocket Highway or what? And somewhere else. I would like to invite you, whoever you want, Members, to listen to the stories of our soldiers who were, say, on a mission in Afghanistan or on a mission in Lebanon, who could tell you what it's like to have a bomb under your car when you get burned when you get shot. And if we are a serious country, we are obliged to provide security for these people. And when there are some signs now, why do we go there, why are we there, that this is once again our whim – read the Law on Defence, where it says about the mission of the Slovenian Army. Point 1 is the defence of the country, clearly, undeniably. The second point is also to ensure peace and security in our immediate surroundings. We do exactly what the law requires of us, and in order to do what the law requires of us, we are obliged to ensure security. In order to ensure security, however, we are also obliged to provide funds. Let me mention that the Welsh Commitment was 2014 when Prime Minister Bratuškov gave it to us to get closer to 2% of GDP by 2024. Of course we're not gonna make it, I'm sorry. To some, many countries this will work, we do not. However, we would like to be credible, at least in this sense, that what Prime Minister Sarec wrote 2018 that we will guarantee 1.5% by 2024, we will also do. So there's going to be a lot of these half stories and non-truths, demagogies, the most demagogic debate going in the direction: do you know how many homes of older people, or do you know how many health homes there are, or do you know how much they could do, or do you know how much they could do if they simply shut the army down? We're shipping immediately, every year 500 million euros, and we're like Costa Rica without an army, and we don't have these problems, and we can invest them in something else. But let's take a little look at the world around us, what's going on in the Balkans lately, what's going on in Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia, Kosovo, Albania. Go see what's going on in Mountain Karabakh. Did any of us believe that we would be sitting in this house in masks this January? No one believed it. Things change overnight. I have no problem that we have in the political space of a party such as Levica, who are for the abolition of the Slovenian Army. No problem. This is their legitimate position and their legitimate position. Those who advocate the existence of the Slovenian Army, however, are also obliged to provide funds for this. And with this I conclude — where are we going to take these funds? To me, European funds are very important. We have a weak €2 billion unspent from the 2014-2020 perspective. We will now work hard to draw on all of this by 2023, and then we have about 10 billion euros available from the new financial perspective and the Next Generation of the EU. And this money, this money will primarily go to health care. Already, more than €10 million is being earmarked for health care for the removal of waiting lines, it will be earmarked for social services, and older people's homes will be built. Remember that 30 million euros have been provided for additional people in nursing homes, and it is precisely because these European funds will make more money available for health, social and infrastructure, including infrastructure in Slovenian municipalities, that gives us room for manoeuvre to ensure the safety of what is going on. And that's what we have to do. Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] I see there's a lot of interest, so I'm asking you to apply. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The needs of many areas, including defence, which I stress urgently need comprehensive and strategic moves forward, are realistic and justified. Not only to meet the obligations to the international associations in which we are involved, but also to the documents already adopted, but especially to our undernourished army, to our soldiers and soldiers who are rightly waiting for measures to improve their status. I think we've done this before, by considering the Defence Act, somehow going this way. However, I must point out that the priorities of our country of coronary disease are also highly intertwined by the fact that the focus has completely shifted to the rescue of health, and then by the coming social and other crises in which we are all rightly afraid together, given the epidemic's course, that we have not yet reached its peak despite many of the anti-coron measures taken. That's why I'm very reserved for this marriage, and I'm not going to support it, and I'm not going to argue with it. Perhaps under other circumstances I would even support it because I am aware of the need to modernise the Slovenian Army. When we adopt this law, this does not mean that all of these almost EUR 800 million will also actually be earmarked for the needs enshrined in this law, because each time the state budget will, of course, have to provide these funds. It's just a direction, this law is just a direction. The fate of this law will be drawn up by each state budget and every time a government proposes this budget. But we do have one very similar law that was passed by the previous coalition. We have the Act on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture or the so-called Cultural Euro Act. The law was adopted by consensus at the end of last year. Only three MPs were against it. I'm really interested right now. What am I going to look at first when the Government comes to this national assembly on 1 October with proposals for new state budgets? First of all, I will look at how much money will be spent under this law, which we are considering today, in terms of the modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and at the same time I will look at how much money this government will spend on the implementation of the cultural euro law, which was unanimously adopted by a so-called constitutional majority and only three Members opposed it. I would like to know whether the priority will be only a defence resort or whether there will be a culture on which our country is founded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The word is from my colleague Željko Ciegler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I would like to say that when we discuss here what opinion and destiny are attributed to the Slovenian military by various parties – in particular, Mr Minister, you like Levico here – I would like to remind you that at the previous point, which has been dealt with and talked about the professional position, professional careers and fates of soldiers in the Slovenian Army, in Levica we have advocated that their position be stabilised as much as possible, become secure, and that soldiers or officers have a certain age period, 45 and more years, guaranteed to continue work, pay either within the Slovenian Army or legally regulated within the national authorities. We have always pointed out that it is necessary to have dialogue with soldiers as in some sense workers in this segment of society. And the soldiers themselves asked you, the three unions, to talk to them about this matter – this is a very important existential issue of soldiers and here we show who is on which side – to discuss their future, and there was no social dialogue. Another time. I would like to say that, as far as the financing of the Slovenian Army is concerned, one thing was the Welsh undertaking, at the time the President of the Government, Miro Cerar, and in the context of NATO, it was agreed that the gross social product intended for the military should be raised to 2%. This matter and agreement ran without the knowledge of both the parliamentary structures and the citizens of Slovenia. Even today, in Slovenia, a considerable percentage of gross social product is given for these purposes, both for soldiers and for the arming and functioning of the Slovenian army, to protect and rescue the home and for war operations on missions abroad. See, 1.1% of GDP, but it went from 0.93 to 1.1% of GDP. And I'd say this. The defence budget rose from 361 million in 2015 to 546 million now, which is more than 50%. Mr. Secretary, this is no small matter. And also as far as the supply of weapons is concerned. We have a list that in the last two decades a lot of weapons systems have been acquired for the Slovenian Army. Let me just say that people will know what we're talking about, that it's not as empty as the Minister now says that the army is at the edge of this society and wants to get rid of it even more, give it as little money as possible and so on. 84 armored conveyors bought Valuk 6x6 – 85 million; 30 Swarun armored shells bought, Patria – 75 million; Roland’s rocket systems were purchased, otherwise they were written off, but – 40 million. It was the modernisation of the T-55 tanks, which are probably now in the military museum or they want to sell themselves, but it was carried out – 52 million. 42 Hummer 4x4 - 12 million shells were purchased, and 38 JLTV 4x4 - 38 million shells were purchased. After all, it was purchased in the way it is appropriate in Slovenia, quite untransparent, many times, one would say, also corruptively, but still, the care of the military is taking place. I want to say this. As far as the 780 million arms deal in Slovenia is concerned, I would like to say that the matter in this National Assembly is being sought through a voting machine without one broader public debate to confirm, while 75% of citizens and citizens, these are the ones who gave us a mandate and contribute money in different ways to the state budget, oppose this purchase. At the same time, I would like to say that Slovenia is not currently at military risk, but is in a very critical state, in the first place, as far as the health system is concerned. And if earlier the minister – I hope he listens to one of the speakers – said that there was no investment in the frame, in the equipment, in the premises, the health care in this area is much more lagging behind. We now find out how many hospitals need to be built additionally, restored, an infection clinic for example, for the whole amount of personnel we need. And that's what we need the money for. Science and research, as we have repeatedly pointed out in Levica and other parties, for this country to create a larger gross social product, a greater added value, which can then go into one part of public finances for the military as well – wait, this needs to be invested, and in this area we give less than in the past. Not to talk about education or culture with us. Here we are talking about 780 million, but on the other hand these are the areas of destiny and the lives of many people, almost the majority of them in this country, and the development of this country. There's simply no means here. However, 780 million will have to be found and invested in weapons to be bought and used abroad, because they are medium-sized battalion groups, and they are offensive cases, offensive weapons, particularly abroad. Think of our local places and people and the developmental issues that are open to Slovenia. When it comes to talking here, most of this money, most of it – 636 million, I would say, when we look at what it is, the armoured means, the helicopters, the transport aircraft – for weapons that, by protection and rescue or the defence of the Republic of Slovenia, has virtually nothing to do with. These are weapons and weapons systems that will be needed in particular for the operations of the Slovenian Armed Forces with assistance abroad, with the occupation of other countries. And we've heard more about it. About helicopters when they say we need them to protect and rescue – please. These are heavy military armed helicopters, how is the minister going to rescue the victims, transport the incubators with the babies, and so on? These are offensive weapons. Like 480 million for armor 4x4 and 8x8! Finally, older people are an important part of the structure of the population in Slovenia. We have a huge – and your colleague from the party Minister Cigler, my so-Name, points out a shortage, we all know, a severe shortage of homes for the elderly, more than 10,000 people waiting for a bed in them, a severe lack of money for long-term care and so on. I think that in Novi Slovenija, Minister Tonin, we could take a little look at what the priorities are at the moment. And to say that when we received money from the European cash and funds for assistance and resolution at the time of the coronary crisis in the new budget period – of which, several times in this Parliament, it has been said, there will be a net of €3.2 billion and the current deficit in Slovenia is 4.2 billion. Mr. Secretary, recalculate a little bit. There is no money to buy weapons in Slovenia. Slovenia needs money for hospitals, for nursing homes, for science, for education, and, importantly, for culture. I hope it's not hard to understand and it's not about any demagogies. It is an irresponsible decision to take 780 million away from the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and to give them for purchases of iron, which will be briefly or roasted abroad or remain in waste. Therefore, I do not personally intend to accept such a law because it is prepared irresponsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Uroš Lampret, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me just to make a few quick explanations regarding the debate. As far as the Welsh Commitment is concerned. Slovenia confirmed it in 2014 and was then President of the Government of Alenka Bratušek. We have always confirmed this commitment at each meeting of the Heads of Government and the countries in which the Slovenian Presidents participated, says all governments. A little comparatively, Slovenia is committed to defence with other countries – the presidents, I would not read all the numbers, but believe me, we have lists here and we are really on the tail of those same countries. Now I am not speaking comparatively around the world, I am not speaking in comparison with the United States of America or the United Kingdom, others, but I am speaking comparatively with the countries surrounding us, which are also members of the European Union and which also share our security environment. In view of the equipment that these countries currently provide for their armies, which their armies also have, allow me to read only the data for – we have information here for all countries, are also publicly available, but comparatively to choose – two countries. One that's possible for us by population. Estonia. I'll talk about three main weapons systems. One of these Slovenian armies is thinking of buying it. The three main weapons systems are: tanks, others are war vehicles, infantry, these are so-called KOV 8x8, and artillery, tow or self-propelled. Why am I saying this? To see what capabilities today's armies have in the countries of the European Union. Like I said. Lithuania buys up to 80 boxers 8x8 have about 240 armoured vehicles of different types. They have 16 self-propelled hoodies and they buy new equipment. It is indeed possible that Lithuania, although a member of the same organisations as us, may have a slightly different view of the security environment. And if you'll allow me, the President, another state, Austria, which is a neutral state, and probably has a very similar view of the security environment. The Republic of Austria has 56 Leopard 2 A tanks, 112 infantry vehicles, specially equipped, and has an additional 150 armoured vehicles. So much for vehicles. And one last thing I'd like to explain. About the helicopters. We're talking, in the plans, about buying medium-sized transport helicopters. The Slovenian Army has four medium-size Cougar-type transport helicopters. What two-purpose tasks do these helicopters perform today? They carry out transports to the mountains, carry out other transport tasks, participate in firefighting. Of course, they also have military tasks. They transport our personnel in operations, they have military and civilian tasks, but this is the main transport aircraft that the Slovenian Army has today. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is from a colleague of Rudy Bear's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Much of what the Minister of Defence has said is necessary for the modernisation of the Slovenian Army can be agreed. He likes to go back so much that he mentions what the government has promised him. Yes, she has also made a lot of promises, but of course we have not only remained on the promise, although it is now up to Members to hear of the total inactivity of previous governments and former ministers. On the other hand, the Minister of Defence has so many times mentioned the Sharča government, what it has written down in its plans, that it has been very difficult to reach this government in practical terms when it implements these plans, so active. And it's also true that it's not just about words. I must remind you that already this year, the previous government has provided 45 million more for the defence budget, that it has ensured this money, and of course it is also an irrefutable fact that this money is no longer in the budget of the Ministry of Defence. This is also the fact that we are talking about plans for the future. We agree that there is an urgent need for equipment, infrastructure, transport helicopters, transport aircraft, military security equipment and much more. But you know, the main problem when we talk here today about plans and numbers is that we talk as if the crisis that it caused around the world -- and we're probably just at the beginning -- this epidemic is not like it isn't. We're doing comparisons, they have so many, I don't know, armors and who knows what else, in these, those, third countries, what they're going to buy, and I'm really wondering if at this point they're all going to buy everything. And this is what we wanted to emphasise at the beginning of the debate on this law, this conservative approach, this reserved approach, precisely because of this. Because when we talk about plans from the White Paper, about what Marjan Sarec promised to increase the defence budget, these were entirely different times, the times of the great global conjuncture, the times of the record state budget. In six months, we have found ourselves in a time of record deficit, a record deficit in the state budget, and we are still talking about hundreds of millions, as if it were flying from a luft, according to our own words. I won't. We can be sure he won't. And when the minister likes to mention the white book and what is written in it, of course, we also know this 14th point about these marriage grounds for investment. However, we argue that it is irresponsible for such a law to write down the exact amounts and thus bind future governments, because we already know that this will be impossible. In some other times, a similar law was passed in the National Assembly, even with similar amounts as regards investments – in other times, I say, not at the threshold of such a crisis as we can now expect – but it was realized there around a week, if I am not mistaken, something like that. And now, in anticipation of the lack of 3 billion, we believe that we have 780 million of them – we note that we probably do not have 780 for this period – that is why we are proposing our amendment that by the end of this mandate, the government will be operationally engaged in these investments, has all the grounds that it can do so, not that we are legally bound by the following governments. Of course, we can expect, depending on who will lead the government, to continue to see how the government or whether it will be one or the other does not respect the laws adopted by the National Assembly. And she won't be able to, because the fiscal situation we can expect is what it is. Whether we've saved 155 thousand jobs, we don't know at this point. We don't know. The epidemiological picture is significantly different from when we even started talking about this marriage, and it shows that it could be even worse. So, the crisis is knocking on our doors and it's a shame we're closing our eyes like it's not there. That is why we will insist on this amendment, although I doubt, of course, that it could have a favourable response, because the government, together with the coalition, has decided to go through this thing with its head through the wall, thinking that it will provide EUR 780 million for investment in the Slovenian Army, and we warn that this will probably not be possible. But there is something interesting – the minister is not here right now – how, in fact, to these helicopters, the minister changes his position within a few months. He mentions them several times, including the squinting of the former Secretary of Defense. Here, I must agree with him that, in fact, if the money was provided, the Ministry of Defence could do much more to buy these helicopters. But to the current Minister of Defence, as I recall, as of January this year, it was practically stupid to buy helicopters or why, according to him, the military would be carrying out these rescue services. It was heard how expensive, wasteful, wasteful, and that Slovenia would urgently need dedicated helicopters to rescue. This was in response to the government's announcement to purchase such helicopters. Well, of course, he's now Secretary of Defense. But now the Secretary of Defense is completely different, and now all of a sudden they're smart helicopters, they need to be procured, and it's not too expensive. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we briefly warn against these large eyes and appeal to a measure of sobriety. In fact, this amendment of ours brings back at least a fraction of rationality, a fraction of reason, and we will also stress in the future, even though we have been accused of being against the Slovenian Army, that we must decide whether the law or the Slovenian Army – is not true! That's not true. There is always a middle way somewhere, and even in this case this middle way is reliable. If we were to tackle some of the dynamics of 2020, even in the future, at the end of this money would really be a little less than planned, but it would all seem more realistic, especially not so binding in a situation where we do not know what the public financial picture will allow us in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Member Robert Polnar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The decisive dilemma with regard to the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army is determined by two opponents, although perhaps in an excessive sense complementary logic. An inclusive logic that connects, we write its basic principle with the formula: a or b, which can also mean a and b. And a rule-of-the-art logic that separates. Its formula is either a or b, which by no means can mean a and b. Each of them has its advantages and weaknesses. Personally, I prefer first, to inclusive logic. Although history sometimes seems to us to be running its course and, as the old Stoics have said, the fate of willing water, and the unfavorable one, I am sure that it is up to us, which mental and civil logic will prevail in today's decision, as well as any other in the future. In words about weapons and the separation of spirits, we often overlook the better, kinder variant: those who are not against us are for us. Even though this thought is not entirely without impatience or implicit violence against those who in some dispute or dilemma do not want to be neither against but are elsewhere. In order for the army to survive, the state must take care of its soldiers. Military professionals want an honorable profession. It's a job that's paid for. Members of the military force are looking for an existential meaning, but no chance of finding it. To them, the defense of the country is a worthless chat of power. Authorities who do not know that the country is defended primarily by defence of the military profession. And she's almost gone. There's no system to provide security to professional soldiers, so they leave the army every day. All of this is due to poor financial conditions, non-professionalism and demeaning working conditions. Modern armed forces increasingly abandon the traditional role of deterrence from possible aggression and war. They become a regional and broader security factor through forms of international military cooperation and alliances and participation in various international operations and joint military exercises. Armed forces also provide support to civilian institutions in crisis situations such as elementary disasters or other major accidents. Such a theoretical idea may be present elsewhere, and in the Slovenian Army there is a danger of systemic swelling and decay. What do professional soldiers really want? They are not satisfied with the basic conditions under which they carry out their difficult profession. In addition to social concerns, the technological status of the military is also worrying. If this continues, the military will not be able to carry out its basic tasks. What this means in a practical sense can be imagined by those involved in national security assessments. Such false faith, the inability to perform basic tasks, is in absolute disharmony with a moving agitprop about an army that has nothing and can do anything. There is no way the army can promise more than politics has made it impossible. It's easy to talk about the bright future and the military honor of an army that can work for free and doesn't ask questions, but it's just a new accumulation of problems. The defence of the military profession has just led to the transport of the entire system, all of which has led to a substantial misunderstanding of the defence system. The military thinks that it is not logical to continue to deny vitals to the military and to lower the already low standard of officers, officers and soldiers. For the military is a special structure of society and can operate under restrictions, but only to a certain extent and temporarily. The drastic downgrading of social and personal standards starts to break down this structure at a certain point, especially the psychophysical willingness of professionals, their motives and the belief that those who have to take care of them, which is what we political decision makers have deceived and underestimated. What does that look like in reality? In 2010, the Ministry of Defence budget was EUR 552 million, falling to EUR 340 million in 2014. This means a 38.5% drop. In 2019 it was realised at EUR 510 million – still more than 40 million less than in 2010, and it is true that it is gradually returning. As regards the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the sub-programme Infrastructure and Equipment of the Slovenian Army, the result in 2010 was 105 million, and this result fell annually, say and write, to 3 million and a half euros by 2014, which is a fall of 96%. Even in 2015, 2016 and 2017, annual expenditure at this level ranged between 3 million and 6 million, which is negligible for such a structure as the military. We are therefore talking, when we review individual final accounts of budgets, about a drastic reduction. We're talking about going into caricature extremes, which is completely unrealistic. It's a mockery of the difficult symbol of the country's defence ability. The technique is: nothing, man is nothing. The other parameters, manoeuvre power, firepower, rationality of use, are the logical consequences of the first two zeroes. The Slovenian collective military-political mind estimates that there will be no war in and around the Balkans. At least not in the near future. But if it does happen, it has long since lost its powerful positional form before the new essence of close - knit violence. No more positional activity, the front and the back disappeared as an operational stereotype. In fact, they're everywhere. When it attacks the stronger, it is without exception a flash war. When it attacks terrorism, it is done exclusively and always with mobile special forces. If a regional war is waged, it is not done without allies. If we want a stable, well-preserved state power, we don't go to war at all. War is won by saving on its own strength. When partners are most powerful, the risk of decisive defeat is minimal. After all that has been said, the Slovenian army has been described as negation. And today it's about turning these things into better things, starting gradually to re-establish our own defence force. These two times 100 million in 2021 and 2022, and four times 145 million in the next four years, can thus only be a rehabilitation of the existing situation. Preventing total erosion and nothing but that. It's good to be aware of that. And for the end, there's another humble idea. Instead of buying new air defence systems and new generation weapons, the work of the defence of the sky could be done by Slovenian freaks. They're going to bring down everything that's coming. Not too expensive a solution is offered on its own. A weapon that acts only on the mysterious principle of concentration of pathological malice, mentally directed towards the cortex of the enemy. It does sound violent to madness, but it's blacked out by planes flying over such a cowardly nest. There's no defense against new, sophisticated diabolical weapons. And only with the activity of Slovenian freaks can this paranormal monster be activated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Robert Pavšič, prepare for the mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u172	Too bad the Minister is no longer with us. Perhaps he will be able to respond later because in his first replica or in his first performance, he has suggested quite a few untruths that occurred at the beginning of this term, namely when he spoke about the support of the outside party to vote for the mandate. At the time, the boxing law didn't fall because of the opposition of the Left, but I'll tell you why it fell. Let's just remember a little bit. We have discussed the matter on the Foreign Policy Committee – and this is the last time that I have explained to the Minister on the Committee – he probably forgot because it was already late in the night, it was approaching midnight – in the documentation already supported by the Defence Committee in the previous term, led by today's Secretary of National Security, it said that the purchase of boxers of EUR 350 million would have no financial implications for this country, because that money actually has headquarters. That was in the file. However, what was yet to be signed or endorsed by the Committee on Foreign Policy was a complete immunity for the one who would carry out the business. Now I can ask, but this is a rhetorical question, Chief, it is not meant for you – I am sure that it does not have these 350 million headquarters. Because if I had them, we wouldn't be talking about any stuff here today, but the equipment would already be getting, the investments were already getting. Let us once conclude with this issue who prevented something from establishing a position in the defence system. Yes, the budget for the military needs to be gradually increased, but on a realistic basis. Marjan Šarc's list has already proved this, 45 million more funds have been allocated in this budget, but these funds are no longer available, but some other time has come. The minister pleaded for EUR 3 billion, which was to be set out in the White Paper for the purchase of equipment from the White Paper. But there's no 3 billion of them either. It's not even 780 million. It's not right now. But it's together with these 780 million, if we add up over the finger, now it's 5 billion minus, which we can say is easy. And if we do not have financial support, in which we will see the whole picture, in which we can also support this law in a reasoned manner – because we are not against it, in LMŠ we are not against investment in the military, but we are wondering whether this country, this budget over the next six years, is capable of doing so not at the expense of other systems – then we are actually wondering where these funds will be taken from. The minister said it was from the state budget. Of course, from the state budget, but this state budget needs to be filled and financed by all state systems. But no, whenever we ask from where, this government, by the way, today I would expect the Minister of Finance here and he calms us down and he says, we have a financial structure arranged, but no, he sends into the fire, into the crane after the bones of only the Minister of Defense. But this government, what does it do? He just promises: "We will give all the next year, everything will happen next year." How are you going to give this? The Ministry of Defence's announcement is that in 2026, 1.2 billion euros will be allocated to the defence sector from the state budget, which is 100 % more than today. In 2026. I mean, that really points to some optimistic tendencies, but if you ask me, they're completely unrealistic. It's nice to write these things, to imagine what will happen in a few years. I don't know where you came from, and on what basis did you come up with these numbers? Well, if you take loans as easily as you take, by having a billion reserves, then it really shows how little money is worth in this coalition. [[Incomprehensible]] You will not be paying them, this will be paid by the state and all the next generation in the next 100 years, because, as I learned a few days ago, it was only last year or before last year that we paid the loan that Austria-Hungarian hired. So we'll know how long state-level loans can last. And now, in the year when the consensual portfolio lost 31 million euros by consensus, talking about how it's going to go over six years for the thousands of 200 million euro defence portfolio, not only is it optimistic, it's utopian and it's getting a little funny. Does the military need investment? I've already pointed out a few times today that I'm sure, for sure. He doesn't just need it, he deserves it. Do other departments need them? Of course they need them. But in order for us to make a qualitative decision, then we need the whole picture, and we don't get it, by any means. Because whatever you've shown us in the balance sheet, no matter how you've defended it, there's no investment, because it can't be. But when we ask, let's wait at least a month to see at least a financial picture or some financial expectations for the next two years, it won't work. And there is no way that we can guarantee some economic normalisation in this country if we cannot do it politically. You're in a big hurry with these 780 million euros before we have a budget. Maybe that says something, that's the rush. But what we actually got on the table, it's funny, it's not serious. And if you, a minister who is not at the moment, but I am still speaking to him, are convinced that this is real, then I'm actually afraid because I'm sure the Minister realizes that this law and such plans are not realistic. It's not all that simple to take a loan, then split it, spread it around. That's why Parliament is here – to look at you under your fingertips. And yes, even the practice of past acquisitions of weapons has been such that they have always been accompanied by such or other epilogues or without them, such as the acquisition practices of this government, in fact, it is no longer worth repeating, just this spring we remember, at the beginning of the summer. The key question is: is today the right time to adopt this law? Absolutely not. The Minister is very well aware of that. It's not about the law. I already said that on the board. Remember the laws that we have passed in the past or that this institution has adopted in the past and have been personalized – Grims' Law, the Law of Jasbins, the Reform of Virant. Today we're going to confirm Tonin's marriage. Why? Because of his pure money, so that the minister will finally be signed under this law, and he is a winner in any case, whether this law will be passed or not. If voted, he will knock on the chest, even if this law cannot be implemented, and say, "I have arranged the military money, only this budget, this government cannot guarantee it now." If he's in the coalition, then they'll find reasons why he can't, but if someone else does, they'll rumble in every way they can. But if he doesn't, he'll say, "Look, the ugly opposition has broken the whole plan of how we're going to save the army." In any case, Tonin and Tonin's marriage is a winner. The fact is – and we will repeat this over and over again – that the government of Marjana Sharca has really set up the budget raising for the defence sector. The point is, it's real. Already in this budget, which you have broken with the rebalancing, EUR 45 million has been provided for investments, and the Minister was very quiet when he was decimated by the rebalancing of these funds. He also voted to take them away from him, and now he has the face to come to Parliament and ask us or not to ask us to ask for support for 780 million euros! I can't. At least some responsible policy requires a full picture to be presented to us. That's why we made the amendment. If he's already in such a hurry with multi-purpose equipment, helicopters, personal equipment for soldiers, then let's just change the anniversary and let these acquisitions take place by 2022 and the whole problem is solved. Although we still claim that the Minister could have made these acquisitions today without any special law. But obviously it is necessary, even though this is not good, even when the issue of such an important system as the military is following dirty laundry in public. We shouldn't have let that happen. We should not allow ourselves to talk about the dignity of the army. The dignity cannot be bought, and as I said before, the dignity of this army has long been earned by our army. If you think he's gone, that's your guess.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Allow me just a few very brief explanations for the debate so far. And then I'd start at the end. The budget, which was adopted in 2019 for 2020 and 2021, planned for 2021 88 million for investments in the Slovenian Army. 88 million for the second year. The law we are proposing is planning about 100 million investments for the Slovenian Army next year. So the difference between what is planned for next year is 12 million. Another issue regarding the rebalancing is why for the first time the Slovenian Army has not lost any funds that it did not urgently need for this year. There has been a retention of funds and some of these funds have not been recovered due to a decrease in operational activity, so-called training abroad, and part of other activities carried out in specific training facilities which have not been carried out as a result of the epidemic. And there were reservations about the supply of certain equipment for which the investment documentation was prepared on the supplier's side. Some of this equipment will not be lost for the Slovenian Army because it was transferred to next year. And right now, investment documentation for this equipment, which is identified, is in the law and will be delivered next year and is also subject to this law. It has also been said that everything promised by the top executives in the past is bound by the following governments. Of course, this binds the next governments. Everything that Slovenia has promised on the international floor or everything it has committed itself to is committed to all future governments. And the things that are in marriage, we haven't remembered at the Ministry of Defence in the last three months, all those things that are in marriage have been prepared in strategic documents. The priorities are clear and, according to the General Staff assessment, are also minimal. Minimum. It is only possible that the data on investments or how high or low Slovenia judges by percentage for defence budget investments. We don't judge very high. We are really looking at 20% of the defence budget for investments. In 2019 we had 7% for investments. The other European Union country that followed us was Belgium, 11.1%, and they themselves are very low. Here, however, it is not too much to stress the capabilities of the Belgian army, particularly Belgian aviation. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mag. Branko Grimes has his word, Mr. Primož Siter is ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u176	Your Honor! Today things have changed a lot in the world and security challenges and the situation is different than we would have liked or could have imagined at the time of Slovenian independence. Investments in the Slovenian Army are investment in development today. Every investment in security is today, in today's world, an investment in development. Because without security, there's nothing left. Take a look at the pictures from Syria when little Christian boys were hanging around the roofs, while Christian girls were lying with their necks slit. Who else did it mean at the time? Just security. The security they lost. And when Europe freely opened the borders and accepted those who did all this as some kind of refugee, an imaginary refugee, and imposed this on its citizens, and it is still doing so, Europe has also begun to lose its security. The whole story, which is still going on, as evidenced by the fact that by the end of August, 10 000 223 illegal migrants had arrived in Slovenia and some over 9 000 800 had come to Slovenia in the same period last year, which means, of course, that equipment can only be self-sufficient. Today the world is so that when it comes to general things, of course, collective security applies, so we are members of NATO. But unfortunately, today, in my humble opinion, there is a greater likelihood that the end of Western civilization will bring cultural brand-size in connection with radical Islam than some major war. These are the new security challenges we are facing. And that is why there is no room for demagogy that we do not need investment in the Slovenian Army or that now is not the time or I do not know what else we are listening to today. The Slovenian army needs two elements. The old rule that has always been true is not to win the weapon, but to win the heroic heart. So, he needs values, he needs that atmosphere in society so that the soldier can be re-appreciated and respected for what he does. Not that it always appears again in the modern world, how the present ancient Roman wisdom is, that we remember God and the soldiers when the danger is already knocking on the door. Today, of course, it is necessary to plan the army in advance, equip it properly, educate it, and for this it is necessary to find the appropriate personnel. In our investments in personnel, we have spoken in the context of the previous item, which we will decide on today. But we're talking about equipment now. And here I have to say, it's really disturbing to listen to some of them how demagogic they are. I recall that only a few years ago, specifically in 2016, 116 million euros were allocated to illegal migrants in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia alone. When we talk about the next year for the Slovenian Army, we give it 100 million euros. That's a lot less than it sounds like. And that's the problem, and that wasn't a problem for the same people back then. It is said that for a foreigner everything, but for the security and development of Slovenia nothing. That says a lot about people who have double standards like that. In addition, mentioning who would benefit from this – it will benefit Slovenia, because Slovenia will be safer, because Slovenia will be more interesting for investors, for all, also for young people. I hope that they will make it easier for more children and to stay in Slovenia. Since Slovenia does not need any migration, even the least massive, mass migration, Slovenia needs more children of its own, appropriate family policy and of course security, in order to develop entrepreneurship to develop development, all that is the only sustainable source of sustainable development and prosperity in the modern world. When you talk about how these are big commitments and why Slovenia has committed itself, I would only remind you that it was the first to commit to buying multiwheelers, namely 8x8, Tone Rop from LDS. If you'd listened to your propaganda, you'd think it was someone else. And who renewed that commitment? Alenka Bratušek during his reign and then Marjan Šarec during his reign. Now that the current government is trying to keep a given word – because if the government says, they are bound, it is necessary to know, and then the credibility of Slovenia as an interlocutor and as a member of the link – is assessed as a problem. He can't, and he can't be. Besides, there's a lot of demagogies back here. Previously on Left: "Yes, we should only worry about," I don't know, "homes for pensioners." Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you are the co-ordinators of the government of Marjan Sarca, which existed only because you supported Sharca in the vote, year and a half. How many homes did you build for the pensioners? Zero, zero. You see, in politics, they count actions, not words. But it's a question of how to proceed now. First and foremost, what Slovenia must ensure and what Slovenia and Slovenia deserve, and citizens and citizens have the right to do so by the constitution, is security. That is why we need these investments, and that is why we need a well-functioning Slovenian army. Not for the sake of others, but for his own sake, for his own safety, because of all that the Slovenian Army can offer as a pillar of statehood. It's not just an outside threat. Who, in the end, intervenes with the biggest bites? The Slovenian army. Some of you bumped into chariots, saying that it was just for – what did one already say? - the occupation of others. Well, if you had any idea, you'd know that when there was a big catch in Gorenjska and the trees fell down and there were rocks, rocks, trees, everything you want - who organized the help? The Slovenian army. And you won't believe, with the multi-wheelers, with the armored men, then they carried people to go to school, to work, and they carried out transportation for as long as that danger existed. Of course, in order for this to happen, you must have the Slovenian Army first. And also to understand her needs and to understand that today the world is so that you have to plan things in advance because nothing can be done overnight. Then face the situation left by the former government. It has simply not taken care of the execution of orders, purchases, and now it is on the same side of the world that the evidence spreads, why the government has then diverted the funds or why it is only stepping them up in the next few years. Of course, because things were not taken care of, because it favored foreigners and all the nonsense that they had done before taking care of their own people. That is why we need these investments and we need a well-functioning Slovenian Army that will be effective, which will be the pillar of statehood that will provide security for Slovenia to protect its borders. The number and the fact that the situation is now even worse than it was last year makes it very clear that we need a Slovenian army that will be sufficiently equipped, which will be well organised and will, of course, also have the appropriate powers to protect our borders in order to protect our homeland of Slovenia. It's her mission. It is ours, and it is our duty to enable it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Primož Siter, prepare for Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Hello! At first, I would like to say a few words from my personal general point of view and also on behalf of the parliamentary group, if you will, on the subject of the law before us. We are also making one amendment and, according to parliamentary practice, I would also like to speak a few words about this. But before I go to these points of content, I would respond to one thing, Minister Tonin. I have closely followed the whole debate on this subject so far, both on the working body, on the Defence Committee and on the whole debate on this point here today, now. In total, I wrote the Minister's statement 17 times, deceiving that Levica wanted to disintegrate or shut down the Slovenian Army. Despite the fact that we assured him 16 times and argued that he did not, the Minister continues with these deceptions. That's a little funny, if not, with all due respect, and I hope it's not a rough term, it's a little silly. The abolition of the Slovenian Army is not something that Levico would be interested in. What we are interested in is the problem of abolishing the Slovenian soldier. I think that our argument line in the defence law that we have previously discussed or discussed is clear enough. What we want to eliminate is a paid Slovenian soldier, a Slovenian hero is employed. That's me. Who has spoken in this national council today, not on behalf of the highest on the military food scale, to say so, or at the Ministry of Defence, but those soldiers who are working, who are going and who are doing something? The left-wing group that presented the call to their unions. Which is what the minister's been up to. This must be abolished in the Slovenian Army, this ignorance of politics, to the lowest in the Slovenian Army. The ministry treats soldiers as it does, I do not know, the economic ministry to the workers in the economy – only through an economic chamber, which we know has its interests and its means of communication. So, the respected minister – now he's not here, but I hope he's watching – when you say on the 19th that we want to end the Slovenian Army, think about the Slovenian soldier then let's keep talking. As for these 780 million euros, let's take a few moments of silence to think about what we're talking about. About 780 million euros! Not some budget change, for which we have asked for, say, amendments to the budget rebalance to solve some cultural area or something, but we are talking about 780 million euros. About three quarters of a billion. And here we are not talking about direct investment in the Slovenian Army, as with their narrative they are trying to sell the government and the ministry. We're talking about creating conditions for a new arms business, a new arms affair, like we've seen before in Patria. It is the largest remittance from the Slovenian budget in the private pocket of some American weapons magnates. Meanwhile – the government representative can throw me forward the demagogies – we have 12 thousand people in Slovenia waiting for a place in nursing homes, we have 40 thousand, God help, hungry children! We've got a manoeuvre of 10,000 rental apartments. The government is playing here with 780 million for some purchase of a weapon that will not even come to life or purpose in Slovenia. In Levica, we often say that Slovenia is not militarily threatened because it is not. No one is directly threatening us, we are in good relations with our neighbors, there is no security risk. And there is no reason in common sense for us to burden both the budget and anything else in the country by buying some weapons, while Slovenia, as it said, is threatened by thousands of other fronts: developmental, education, health care. A friend of a nurse at the UKC sends me pictures of the nurses laying buckets when it rains because the roof leaves, and so on. But perhaps the most painful chapter, and I myself deal with it most personally, are homes for the elderly. For 12 years, no one has done anything in this area. Whatever the solutions were, they were left to the market, 12 thousand 500 and something, I think today's the data, people are waiting for a place at home. While the balance of the budget has earmarked 12 million 250 000 for long-term supply in numbers, 3 million more than we will realize this year, all these funds – a warning – are not intended to build infrastructure in this area, but to maintain only the urgent maintenance of what we now have in this area. It doesn't say any new home from this title, just maintenance of the decaying one, which it already is. In short, no strategic development in this area. Let's do some math. I'm not going to demagogy, I'm going to go to very simple household accounting. We have 780 million here on the scale. 780 million on the one hand, and on the other hand 12,000 people waiting for their place in a nursing home. If we were to build one home, at least there would be some kind of standard, some kind of practice, that would put about 200 people in it. It's so average, between 150 and 200 people, I round 200 to make it easier. So, if 12,000 people were to go to homes for 200 older people, we should build 60. The approximate price for a project with construction and equipment of one home for the elderly is a circus of about 5 million, they say. So if we have to build 60 homes for 5 million, we need — how much? We need 300 million. 300 million euros! Ladies and gentlemen, more than that, we're only going to use it for armor in this package. Less than half of the total. Less than half of the total amount that the government so easily throws into the service of the American War. With less than half of that amount I'd be like this today [[shows with gesture]] solve the problem of waiting in nursing homes. Nothing like that! [[shows with gesture]] Here, Your Honor, is the conclusion of the patriotism of the government of Janez Janša, with arms and money. You miscalculated it. It could also teach the same thing in the area of housing and education and public health and so on. But in addition to all these arguments, there is this argument of colossally screwed timing. A 4-billion-dollar hole in the budget already, and then let's give another 780 extra million to buy weapons. That is why we are proposing to Members and Members of the amendment, which says that this law on this 780 million-million-dollar arms trade is being realised or is beginning to be adopted when the country makes a contribution of 70 million euros to building a home for the elderly. So first, he's home for the elderly. And with that we wouldn't even answer all the problems at home, we could build them, I don't know, maybe 10, 14, but at least when we do that first, well, then we can talk. 70 million euros, by the way, for information, totals 10 shells. Or 10 armors or 10 homes for the elders. But it's your call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec, prepare for Mrs. Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Vice President. Earlier in his debate, the Minister said that we would hear a lot of deception today and so on, and then he set a very good example of how he deceives and manipulates himself. First of all, with its now wintering claim that Levica is against the Slovenian Army. One mantra, repeated over and over again to discredit one of the political competitors. Of course, this is not a problem; today we have seen how the NSI has tried to discuss this in all its weights even in the previous paragraph, rather than making an argument. However, other deceptions were far more serious. First, smaller: he said that in Switzerland they are buying new planes, new hunters. Here, the thing went to the referendum, but he put it as an example that people are aware of the need to buy military equipment and so on – 8 000 670 votes was the difference between vote and vote against or 50.1 to 49.9%. Almost half of the Swiss population were on their feet because of this purchase. But like I said, the referendum just went through by 0.1%, and that's it. Second, ecclatic deception: how much neutral states give for the military. It is not a matter of deceiving, it was a concrete lie, it was a lie by the minister, and it was also one of the NSI Members who had read what they had written to him for a lifetime, and it came on the day with this argument. Austria: 0,7 % of GDP. Switzerland, rounded up: 0,7 % of GDP. Sweden: 1% of BPD, similar to Slovenia. These are the data of SIPRI, Stockholm Institute for Peace Research, the third most important think tank in the world. So these are the deceptions, the deceptions that Prime Minister Tonin is doing when he tries to defend this senseless investment. He also said they'd be building the DSOs to invest in health care and so on. First thing. We will obviously give up or find the government for the next year, or as long as it lasts, and impose upon the rest of the governments by this law that we will have to find 780 million in six years. But I am sure that for these five DSOs, I am talking about the five DSOs that the government intends to build and investing in health care is stuck somewhere. As with the balance of the budget, where the health treasury is, of course, a lot more money, in the end, still in the negative, because it has not been found, I think, 120 million to cover the current deficit by the end of the year. You care so much about health care. So much so that the Minister of Health explains that every million is hard to find. 780 million for military equipment, and we're talking about planes, helicopters and armored vehicles, and it's not hard to find. At the moment when we have a record deficit, we decide that we will be adding to this deficit somewhere else, somewhere where we really don't need it right now. Not necessary because it is – someone said it is also an investment in development. This is no investment in development, this money will go out, this money will not even stay in Slovenia, because these are foreign companies that will sell this equipment. Another lie or a deception: a Valiant covenant. No matter who gave it, when he gave it, it was a commitment made by a handful of government presidents. No State has given consent or commitment. In Slovenia, as far as I know, there was no public debate as to whether the President or the President of the Government could make this commitment 2%. The fact is, in Levi, we have proposed an amendment, and you can call it demagogia, I would say, first of all, that such an investment can be made when health resources are high enough, it is said that they will exceed the average of the European Union when the funds for the construction of the public homes of older citizens in each year reach at least 70 million, allowing the construction of the necessary capacities, similar to those in the area of rents that are in bloody need – 4 000 200 in Ljubljana in the first place, second of all, Koper with almost 600 apartments is too small and so on. It is necessary to invest in research, development, actual, universities, universities, in order to get the economy back on track. This would be an investment in development, in the economy, against recession and so on. In culture, we must not forget that. The culture that was essentially the most insurmountable at the time after the epidemic was at least supported by the state, and the cultural creators are now suffering greatly because they cannot work, and the state is not helping them as it should be. And that can't be a demagog question, it's a question of what it's wise to do right now. And now everyone on the government side insists that it is necessary to invest in the military, in this equipment, which is completely confused with any logic. If you really want to defend this country, defend against the recession that is coming, defend against the problems that occur in healthcare with outdated infrastructure, with shortages of personnel, in education, there is also a shortage of staff to take into account the NIJ recommendations for the implementation of school education, schools would be in bloody need of additional personnel, and they do not have them, and so on – these are questions that we now have, not some imaginary potential threat from the future. If there's a situation where someone's attacking us, I don't think it's going to help us with that 780 million. But, as it is said, by all standards and criteria, Slovenia is not safe and secure, not military at all. I think that Mr Grims – which in his speech is horribly similar to what Breivik was actually preaching when he was talking about Islam, about refugees, about cultural Marxism, this is like reading that manifesto – very well when he was talking about Syria, he pointed out what the problem is, what the real security problem is. He said there was a disaster in Syria and everyone needed security. Syria invested 4% of GDP in the military in 2010. I am convinced that if we invested in social, health, poverty, in general, for people, as he said, I don't think we would be feeding religious fundamentalism and things wouldn't turn out the way they did. So this is a real security issue – how well society is standing, how well its basic systems and subsystems are standing. It's public health, public education and so on. I think now, at the time of this epidemic, this is all the more crucial. I think the position of the Left is very clear, the senseless purchase of military equipment, such military equipment, is not necessary at the moment. These investments should go to other subsystems that are significantly more malnourished and at risk at the moment. That is why we are proposing this amendment and, of course, we will also vote against this meaningless law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Chernigoy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. Maritime colleague Matthew Vatovec, I somehow recognized myself in the words you said. I have to say first that sometimes I like to write things down, write things down myself, that maybe then I don't succumb to any emotional, unreasonable words, I could say like some others in my own speeches. But I'm gonna keep going. You might want to point out a newspaper article in Del. I believe we trust Del. The title of the newspaper article Neutral Switzerland before the biggest purchase of weapons, where, if I may quote again: “Acts are quite the opposite: military neutral states have spending for their defence more, and no less, more soldiers, more military equipment and more weapons than countries that are not neutral, said Addi Kužnik, President of the Association of Military Pilots of Slovenia.” I must admit, you've been in the National Assembly for six years in a row, but you're defending your salaries. Colleague Moon, who presented us a good model in Switzerland when closing trades on Sunday – let me say that we are in Novi Slovenija for closing trade on Sundays [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u183	Comrade Chernigoy, please stick to the subject and the subject you've been replicating for. I haven't noticed your replica yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u184	I will. But look at the fraction, Switzerland has invested 7.4 billion euros in its army. And now for the end. Columnist Vlado Miheljak writes in his column: “And Left? Yeah, the problem with Left is she's acting like a child with special needs. With much patience and love it can be tolerated, but you cannot give her responsibility." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u185	Comrade Montenegro, I believe that you are a Member of a somewhat shorter time than everyone else, but I would like to remind you of Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure which speaks of the replica. He says that a reply is allowed to the Member when he considers that he has been misunderstood in his debate. I listened attentively to your discussion when I was not in charge, I was listening to it from the office, and you were not talking about any of these articles, nor was your replica related, at all, to the topic that we are currently discussing at this point. So I ask you to wait for the next round when you can sign up as a debater and discuss the subject that we are discussing. Of course it's not a store, we know that. We continue the debate. The text was requested by the Secretary of State. Mr. Lampret, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u186	Dear Vice President, thank you. Only two brief explanations of the debate so far. The honourable Minister, however, spoke of two different categories when he spoke about the expenditure of neutral countries. The minister did not talk about the share of GDP in Switzerland and Austria, no, the minister was talking about per capita spending. Now I'm talking about two categories. For the first time, the percentage of GDP allocated to Switzerland and Austria and Sweden is the percentage of GDP allocated to Finland. And I read, this was said by the honourable Member: "Swiss spending 0.7% of GDP, Austria also allocates 0.7% of gross social product, Sweden 1%, Finland 1.4%." But we need to know that Switzerland and Austria have a billboard system. It is said that the subscription system, which is slightly cheaper, such as the professional system, the professional military system, and that Swiss and Austrian GDP is much higher. What the Minister of Defense was talking about, he was talking about per capita spending, which is what the U.S. dollar says. And here Switzerland is spending $578 per capita, and Austria is spending $383 per capita. And Slovenia 230 more US dollars. If you'll allow me another explanation of the Valiant Commitment. In the Alliance, decisions shall be taken unanimously. Agreed. There is no qualified majority or voting. And also in Wales in 2014 the Welsh Commitment was adopted unanimously, then 29 states of the Allies. This same commitment was confirmed in Warsaw in 2016 and also in Brussels in 2018, when in some ways it got a little tighter when it was not said that it was seeking to reach 2% of GDP in 2024, but that this 2% was also achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Replica wanted Mr. Tashner Vatovec first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u188	Minister Tonin said neutral states are investing more. This is not true as a percentage of GDP, they no longer invest. If Austria is investing 0,7 % or Switzerland 0,7 %, this is not more than 1% of GDP. We can just talk about absolute amounts being higher, which is logical, because GDP is also higher. As far as the Treaty of Wales is concerned, I didn't say they weren't accepted. They were adopted but not democratically accepted and publicly dealt with in their home countries. I said that they were not accepted by the countries, but by the Presidents of the governments that signed this in Wales, and as you just said, in Warsaw and Brussels. And that's a big difference. The vast majority of the Heads of Government are not directly elected in the elections, and I say that they did not have this mandate, either, to accept such commitments because there was no public debate on this or there was no confirmation that they could say that it was a commitment of the State. It is this form of the NATO Pact, which of course knows why it does so. There's only so much to clarify. This was my claim that it was a few individuals, a few heads of government who accepted these commitments without asking anyone else about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tomic, do you want to? You can't have a replica because you haven't discussed at this point. We continue the debate. As the last in this round, Mrs Monica Gregorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Today, very many critical words by the opposition have been said about this law and about investments in the Slovenian Army, as well as very many arguments, positive arguments that give the basis for us to adopt this law today. I believe that this will be the case, but I would like to return to the very starting point in my debate to recall that we are refreshing the memory that the defence system is one of the foundations of our state-of-the-art, which also guarantees our sovereignty. And if three decades ago we somehow managed to fulfill the historic dream that we have our country today, then we must also have a system, and this is the defence system, the Slovenian Army, which assures us that if we are in danger, we will be able to defend and defend this country. So from this point of view, I think that this is the starting point for everyone and that we can agree that the Slovenian Army must also be adequately trained to do so, equipped for its regular operation. But let me remind you. More than 10 years ago there was a severe financial crisis and the defence sector contributed disproportionately to the recovery of this financial crisis in the sense that the defence spending then fell disproportionately, but in the spirit of the savings of the day, Zuyf and the remaining austerity measures. Let me also remember, in 2008 the last investment contract in the Slovenian Army was actually signed, since then there have been no new projects, only the realisation of old ones. It is only in the government led by Dr Cerar from 2014 to 2018 that this trend of decline in defence expenditure has been halted. There was also the first increase in wages in the Slovenian Army. It is right that then, in all subsequent governments, this trend was slowly rectified. But really, really, really slow down. The Valižan Commitment has been mentioned many times today. With that commitment, NATO Member States leaders committed themselves to raising the level of defence expenditure to 2% of GDP by 2024. But here's another explanation. The expectations of members of the Left that there was no broader political debate about this – indeed, there was no referendum on this, but it was not signed, I think, by Mrs Alenka Bratušek at the time, just from some personal preferences. She had confirmed guidelines, decisions, and she didn't sign them on her own, believe me. So don't be fooled by the fact that it was just like that, some signature, just like someone just got tired of the thought, yeah, let's give a little more for the military and for the defense. Next. In the past government, the government of Mr Marjan Šarc, I mentioned at the previous point, a white book on defence was adopted, where it was written and a commitment was made to how the Republic of Slovenia would increase this defence expenditure in the direction of meeting the Welsh commitment. Of course, by 2024 this objective is impossible to meet, so the White Paper now has a goal that we have set ourselves, our country has set itself – to target 1.5% of GDP by 2024, the amount of defence expenditure, and by 2034 that final target is 2%. These are the goals that we have loosened, but we have also accepted ourselves and notified the NATO liaison. It is justifiable that now our partners expect us to meet these commitments in due time. Because so far it hasn't. And as a result, we have somehow lost or lost our reputation in this regard and our credibility has fallen. Now we are on the way to strengthen our position or to improve our reputation, to improve our credibility. In the light of the objectives set out in this White Paper, this proposal today, the Slovenian Army Investment Act, which will be a six-year period – a six-year period, please, not in one year – has provided investments in the Slovenian Army's equipment of EUR 780 million. Let me just name it. Yes, indeed, the plan is to purchase 4x4, 8x8, transport aircraft, two helicopters, air defence anti-lock missiles, infantry weapons, hand-guns, mortars. These are the things the army needs as its basic equipment. I don't know, do you think soldiers should be equipped with pitchers or air rifles and ride on skiers? Literally. Yeah, I know, this has been a little populism right now, but they're also populismic for your 40 thousand hungry kids and 300 million for building a home for the elderly. I agree, we need homes for older citizens, but if since 2009, when the resort is to the greatest extent – I think that with a one-year break – 10 years led by the SD party, one state home has not been built for older citizens, then you really are not the one who could point and argue and think everything else must stop now. One more thing, I'm going to refer to one of my predecessors. I apologize in advance, Madam Vice President. There were indications that it was not a good time to invest, that we had a large deficit. The concern about the stability of public finances within the party, which has somehow revealed this concern only since it has been in opposition. However, it is always stressed or always ended somehow with the evidence of untransparent purchases of medical protective equipment, of lost masked trucks, but see, these are still only insinuations based on some statements of alleged whistleblower, which, as we see, is still criminally charged today because of the alleged signatures of contracts for protective equipment. So please, no cheating in advance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much. And I ask all the speakers to stick to the topic on the agenda. These are investments in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026. We have a replica. Mr. Tashner Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u192	I have to respond to that. When someone takes the example of Romano Tomc and says that 40,000 children in this country who are hungry, flossule, they push me a little hard, and I'm very patient about it. I could tell you, yes, with a full ass, it's easy to shit, as you say. But look Anita Ogulin in the face and tell her that 40,000 hungry children in this country are flossules. Don't be shy!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the debaters in this round. I see that there is still an interest in the debate, so I am launching a list. Please sign in. We have three reported discussers. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, did you sign up with a microphone key? [[Yeah.]] We'll add you to the list as the last, if you don't mind. Is he okay? [[Yeah.]] The first is Mr Jožef Lenart, preparing for Mr Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. Conditions for a modern and successful military: the provision of personnel and the provision of appropriate and appropriate military equipment and weapons. Which means, as the Minister has said, about €50 million an additional year for investments in the Slovenian Army. If we hadn't done that, this army would actually have run out of equipment within a few years. However, since we have not stuck to what we have promised our allies in recent years, we must go from some roots out, it is said that between the 28 members, in fact, Slovenia is a fourth from behind, we are fourth from below for 2018, I think, after we have actually dedicated percentages of gross social product to the military. Our neighbor Croatia was in 15th place and we were on the tail. If we – because we have promised 2%, and we have committed some 1.1% in recent years – in recent years, let's say 10 years ago, we have held some middle 1.5%, as mentioned earlier, that it is now promised, then we should not invest so much more in actually getting this equipment to some medium level. Medium level, not top level, it won't be that fast. And if we compare a little more with the other countries, how much they spend. Although the Austrians are not in NATO, they have 2.2 billion euros earmarked for the military annually. This was in 2019 and then the Austrian minister said that he could no longer do anything with this money and that they needed a circus of 3.3. So what would follow us if we weren't in Nate? And if I just touch the usual thing, what is it? – our opposite parliamentary group is somehow trying to make some kind of a proposal for a media pump, then it's trying to show itself, 780 million you're going to commit, and actually tell people that it's being dedicated now. But this is just one thing, if we say something on the steps every year, and then it's not such a thing that our economy and, of course, GDP couldn't handle it. [[…]] If we actually go back to those extremes that we want to condition something – no one has to condition anything. We need to allocate a certain proportion of resources for health care, then for social, of course for work and so on. All of this needs a share of the resources, but let's say in Levica always: we'd give it for health care, we'd give it for homes, not for the military. And I'm gonna say this all the time, some bowling, ping-pong, and we're not going anywhere. We have a situation like this, like you say, I don't know, for someone who hasn't had a drink in 20 days to give him water or give him water or food. Turn it off, one or the other. Without an army there is no state, without these resources there is no army of ours and, of course, without health resources, we cannot put the health system on its feet either, so this government sees that the proportionate proportion of the funds that are available to be distributed is distributed for what is most necessary. And of course, this includes such a work unit, a defence department as a health department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Winning Jelinčič Noble, Mr Željko Cigler is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u196	Thank you very much. One of the necessary conditions for the existence of a state is to have an army of its own. If we want to have our own country and not have our own armies, then we can forget about the country. Here in the National Assembly, I see quite a few people who would be happy to sell their own country and leave it to anyone. This has been seen since we talked about the recruitment system and when some in fear and threats have spoken out loud that we must be against it. I don’t know why the promises made — that a referendum would be convened on whether we were in charge of the recruitment system or not — were not implemented. Why? Because the recruitment system would be adopted. The normal Slovenian population supports this. Extreme, bilateral, I'd say, the elements are, of course, against it. Why they are against it, I will not go into it, perhaps because of the interests they are fomenting or under-paying some of the outside spheres. It has been said that we must fulfil our commitments to the international community and to international forums. That's true, but it doesn't matter. The most important thing is that we must have an army because of our own country, because of our own defence, for the safety of our people! And if some are happier with foreigners, even those who are now in the hordes across borders, then that's the way it is. However, the normal Slovenian family can defend itself and can defend itself with its own army and that is why it needs its own army! I have a feeling that today those who are against investment in the Slovenian Army would be on the side of the Yugoslav People's Army on their own in 1991. I'm sure of it! And I'm sure today, if there were any escalations, we wouldn't be wearing flags with Antifa signs in the first place, but we'd be wearing white sheets long and long. It's a reflection of some in here. And then one wonders who would defend Slovenia in the first place. Like you might say, I don't know who, gringos, mariposas maybe. Maybe they, even though I doubt they'd jump left and right and do something else, they wouldn't be defending their country. If we're talking about investment in the military, it's not just money for guns. That's more than that. This means working for our industry, which means developing certain segments in science, in medicine, anywhere. You probably don't know that military-specific knowledge of medicine is very important. We don't have that in us. And if we end the army, what are we going to do? Courses? After all, we don't even have pre-war education in schools, which was sometimes normal for a normal country. In almost 30 years, however, the country has decided to destroy all that is good and to break the unity of the Slovenian nation. And that's what you're doing, you're against investment in the Slovenian Army. He's crying. The problem is pay. The problem is that soldiers can no longer serve in the military after a certain period of time, but they must get other jobs, other opportunities. And these options are defined and we can use them. We use these soldiers in segments where we lack police because they can be used as border police by short-term training and transformation. We're gonna fucking need those cops at the border. And with all the help given to migrants by certain specimens or groups from the left political sphere, we will need them even more. There are no soldiers. Of course, there can be no soldiers if there is a specific segment of the Slovenian population, of course a political left-wing, absolutely against having an army at all and teaching young people any obligations, any discipline, order or similar. Of course, because you feel the best in chaos. In chaos you can fish in mud, in chaos you can make pigs, such and different. And as it turns out, that's all you want. The previous mandate was prepared by the government to produce a white book. Of course, Mr Grošelj from LMŠ was also present in Brussels today. That white book is total bullshit. Such white books, they write — for example, at a military high school, in their third year, they wrote such sausages without tails and heads. They are not based on the actual state of today's military techniques, military methods and logistics. None of this is happening! Look what's happening now in the conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia, if you know where these two countries are, you'll see what needs to be done. And it is clear here that we need investments in this segment as well. Of course, there's a lot to fix in this white book. I don't know why white, maybe so that even those who wrote it would turn themselves in to those who might attack us. There's another thing I miss about those of you who are against it. Patriotism. Patriotism is not just a word. Patriotism is everything else, but above all, it's what you're missing. We will be happy to support this law. There's not enough money left for the army. More money has to be given. If there are more ideas or documents to give the army, we will be happy to support that one.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Željko Cigler has the following word and then, as the last in this round, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues! I want to say this. Most of the weapons that are intended to be purchased either on the basis of this law that we are discussing today, about 780 million, or with regular funds that are earmarked for investment under the defence resources in Slovenia, are very large, all from abroad. So here there is some investment in knowledge, in development, in jobs is not available, and more is earned through commissions of intermediaries, which is a national custom in Slovenia. These past purchases of weapons, especially at Patria's, have shown us. Another time. I'd like to say this. [[Hepatobil]] That's right, thank you. Another time. I'd like to say this. Dear Chief of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Mr Robert Glavas, who is here this May said on the national radio, quote: "We expect certain equipment to be purchased in the near future and that the first fighting group may be built within a few years. Of course, this can be very good for the military." And he added a very important sentence, which must be repeated many times: “But we must get a consensus beyond what Slovenia wants from this army.” The fact that we need the military to maintain it by means of equipment, weapons and the working position of soldiers, which must be properly paid and provided with a career path, is this: 75% of the people, the public of Slovenia, citizens and citizens, Mr Minister, who fills the budget from which you want to spend 780 million now extra for arms purchases, for killing, is against this investment, because they are aware that the priority is certainly different at this point. Another time. As for Wales, or Warsaw, or Brussels, where our representatives participated in the meetings of the Heads of State of NATO – well, in Wales, then Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek – is the fact that there was a Welsh commitment that talked about the size of GDP to be committed to arms, political and non-legally binding acts in the future in the Member States of NATO. And that they accepted what more people have already said today, the representatives of Slovenia, which was then the president or later probably the presidents of other governments, without any discussion or consensus in the country. What I said earlier, as said by the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Mr Glavas, one consensus must be obtained for this. It's completely normal for me to think about. He said, just to say this, Slovenia, as a member of NATO, became this by accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. But how should the state develop defence capabilities, how much resources should it devote to what, if any, arms it buys, the North Atlantic Treaty does not provide. Legally, NATO membership does not even oblige us to have an army. Iceland, which is a member of NATO, has no army. And don't argue with it now, I'm just telling you certain facts. Only in order to be members of NATO should we provide €780 million for weapons in the future. Now I'm gonna say this. Earlier, the Secretary of State had said that even if this law was not available when he was warned by Members why it was necessary to provide funds for arms purchases, if the Ministry of Defence provided high investment funds for this purpose – he said, at present, 88 million euros, a similar year and then even larger numbers. And I wonder why this law is needed if these investments are envisaged. On the contrary, Mr Minister, I ask you whether, in addition to this law, if it is adopted today, the voting machine will still be allocated within existing military resources, for defence, which is over 500 million, 88 million more, or will be added to the budget line for defence. That's what I'm asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u200	Whether this law is adopted or not, this government will allocate funds in the budgets for 2021 and 2022, as provided for in this Act. This marriage is crucial for a period when I'm gone. In order to assure my successors that the military will be able to provide some predictability and long-term funding. So this is the main point of this law – that long-term financial commitments can be made and not only limited to the budget of 2021 and 2022. So, according to my assessment, I'm doing the greatest favor with this law to whoever comes after me.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Replica has a Mr. Željko Ciegler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u202	Minister, you did not answer me whether 88 – if now the law is ensured, 780 million – is still in the defence budget every year. For example, in this year's 88 million more, then in the next year's 88 million more, then, I don't know, 100 or so. Will the funds for investments in weapons in the defence budget line then be reduced?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u204	Thank you. As I said, the answer to your question is no. This means that what has been envisaged so far is about an additional EUR 50 million every year. That is why I said that if you count this, this law brings fresh 300 million euros for the defence budget in six years. Six years of fresh 300 million. Approximately 50 additional million more than planned. This, of course, is also in line with that document adopted in April 2018. That's the difference. And €780 million is the sum of all investments over the next six years. So if I were to be very clear, there would be some EUR 500 million for the military to invest, even though this law would not exist, and some EUR 300 million for this law brings additional, fresh money. However, it is essential that this law allows all who will be in this area to accept some long-term financial obligations, which means that it is not only limited to the budget adopted for 2021 and perhaps for 2022, but can do so for a longer period of time, there until 2026. Because those who get to know these things and have already conducted some sort of procedure in the past know that in these matters it is not like a store to go to a supermarket, to choose the items you want, and then to buy them. But these things take years and years. It can happen that if we decide today to get a transporter plane, it will not be for another three or four years. However, this law is crucial because it allows for some financial stability, the financing of this investment to be ensured. Because if you only have the funds provided for 2021 and 2022, no one will give you any equipment because they won't know whether you'll provide that money or not. I hope that I have now made it clear that the matter is crystal clear what would come about in any case and what this law adds. Once again, I underline that the law contributes to financial stability in defence investments.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you very much. As the last debater in this round, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word and for taking my application into account. I'm not going to go to the debate, discuss with my colleagues from the Left, because today they're sailing on the wings of populism. But I'm just gonna say one thing. If what you were talking about investment in health care, investment in education, investment, I don't know what else you were talking about, something like that. [[…]] Ah, you've exposed hungry children and so forth. If you were actually behind this, then when you participated in the coalition, you would certainly have a home for the elderly, a new health care home, and, above all, more health workers. Because the biggest problem we face today is the health care staff. So this hypocrisy of yours has no limits, and that's why I'm not going to deal with you. But I'm just gonna say one thing. Do not follow double criteria with different explanations and explain: “We are not against the Slovenian Army, we support the Slovenian Army.” Yes, of course it is – it will be hungry, by the way. Such an army pleases you, an army that loses its members every day. But I must strongly protest, and I will allow this, on behalf of Slovenian soldiers, over the discussion of the predecessor, who said: "Slovenian soldiers are to kill." No, the Slovenian soldiers are to protect their own country. They're at home at the expense of their lives. And you know, it's sad to hear from the MPs that the Slovenian Army is here to kill. It's a shame! You used to – I think your colleague left this hall because it was said that we were exaggerating around hungry children, but here you simply allow yourself to say: “The Slovenian army is meant to kill.” Come on. Give yourself a little better, take a closer look at their work and operation and you will find a lot clearer. For the sake of people, it is important that we also say something about investments. I think the main point was what the minister said earlier, namely 300 million. Of course, the populists will say too much, this money is gone, we need to put it there, we need to invest in health again, we need to invest in education. I absolutely agree that they are necessary, and this government has said that it will also invest in this area where you are not. For years, nothing practical has happened in this area. However, you know, I never hear you mentioning that money may also be in the budget for things that we really don't need, for example, a non-governmental organisation that spends 70% of its money, which is half a million euros, just for the salaries of 14 people, and 30% for their operations, which is against the state. And for that, there must be money in this country, according to you. Leave your fingers alone there, will you? No, but we will not leave our fingers alone there, because whoever is acting against the state, but really citizens and citizens will not pay it and it is wrong to pay it. But it's interesting how quickly you find yourself in these messages. Let's get this straight. The fact is that the Slovenian Army is not assessed enough. There's got to be a starting point here. An army like this is no longer capable of protecting its own country. Manko is human resources, obsolete equipment, and a poor supply. We were talking about personnel movements in the previous law. I hope this will also help improve staff representation in the Slovenian Army. Now we're talking about obsolete equipment and poor supplies. I think that the money that will be allocated to the Slovenian Army is also useful, and some investment in this country is needed, because security is, after all, a very important value for every citizen. But of course, the easiest thing to take is because it is populism good to hear that now is not the time for the Slovenian Army, now there are other priorities. When there are other priorities, again the Slovenian Army does not come along. There's never a time for the Slovenian Army! But when we need to talk about how we are all for the Slovenian Army, how ready we are to help it, how important Slovenian soldiers are to us, how important they are to help citizens and citizens, and then they are full of us. That's when we're full of mouths. However, when some decisions need to be made, which are also financially related and bound – of course they are, but this costs something – then there is no money for the Slovenian Army again. So don't tell me who you say we are for the Slovenian Army, but not in this way. You're not for the Slovenian Army because you've been destroying it for years. But it has to be done once. And with this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Replica has a Mr. Željko Ciegler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I was talking about guns, not killing Slovenian soldiers. But the fact is, aKalashnikov's tanks are designed to shoot people. They're designed to kill, not shoot clay pigeons. That's a fact. On the other hand, if someone says that 40,000 hungry children are flossules, as Romana Tomc said, and if, on the other hand, colleague Bah Žibretova accuses us, Levico or me, who spoke about the need to build – is headed by the Health Committee – hospital, to obtain equipment, more health personnel, that we should invest in the shortage of school space and kindergartens, including children with special needs, Mr Chernigoj, that this is populism when I say it, then it is too little knowledge of the situation and the situation and people in Slovenia. I suggest you get down on the ground and see what's going on in real life. It's a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, there's no replica on the replica. Opening a new round of applications for discussion if anyone wants to discuss [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I understand, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, he had a replica of your debate. So now I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. [[Yeah.]] I see that only Mr. Jože Horvat. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u210	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, co-workers, Commissioner-General of the General Staff of the Slovenian Army! I doubt that I will convince anyone, but I doubt that my debate will improve the outcome of today's vote, in spite of everything. Although some with the white book are not satisfied — but look, it would probably be unwise if each time a new minister of defense came to write a new book — we sincerely follow the goals of the white book signed by the previous government. I will never forget a pleasant conversation with former Minister of Defence Dr Ljubico Jelusic, at the edge of the festive session of December 2012, when she knew, and we also knew that we would take over the defence department. She begged me not to continue to trim the defence budget. She was also an outstanding Vice-President of the Committee on European Union Affairs during the Prime Minister, Alenka Bratušek, and I appreciate her so much more and I have remembered her words in some ways over and over again. Because what's going on and how is the budget actually being built? Make a cut. Members, let's face it, I admit that when we put amendments into the budget, we virtually all took up the army in a row. That's a fact. Why? Because we didn't have this marriage, that's why. That's just why. And, of course, if this goes on, then I agree with the thinking of the Chief of Staff Robert Glavas, who says roughly: "When we have to solve floods and earthquakes as an army on the ground, we look at public research and the armies are all applauding. Once that's over, the popularity drops. In quiet times is the army of the sky.« This moment, today, is a peaceful time, thank God, and today, we see from the debates of many, is an army of skyscrapers. However, it is very important in the crisis. And most importantly, even the former Chief of Staff, my uncle Mr. Geder, has been thinking in this direction that if there is no investment in the army, in time don't count on it – on the Slovenian Army – because it will simply be gone. It was a debate, sooner or later, or a budget or a law. Now the elementary school is probably aware that first the law will provide money in the budget, because otherwise it will not be in the budget. Well, I guess we've got a 15-year practice now. And here I see that there has been a great deal of deception by the Slovenian public. There was talk of an additional 780 million. Now the minister has explained several times what this is all about. The talk is about investments in the Slovenian Army over the next six years and this investment is expected to be 780 million. In six years. But the Slovenian Army is a serious army, it has a medium-term plan, yes, also procurement, including investment, and it goes essentially now in contrast to what is planned today, up to 780 million. We are therefore talking about 300 million euro of additional investments in six years. 300 million divided by 6 is 50 million. We are talking about funding – yes, which is high, every euro needs to be spent rationally, even if it is tax-paying – we are talking about 50 million on average at the annual level. If there's anything else, I won't understand it's a violation of this law, but if there's less, it will be. And if we don't achieve that goal, it will. And I'd like to see a hero making a budget, and he won't respect the law. So, first of all, we can be sure of the law, if the government that respects the rule of law is to ensure that the financial resources for investment in the Slovenian Army are also provided. We in Novi Slovenija would like the actual structure of defence expenditure to be the same as those recommended by NATO. Of course, when I say "Nato", some get measles immediately, sorry, but I never get measles, when I remember the result of the referendum in 2003 – the two-thirds majority of people, the voters who came to the polls, decided to enter Slovenia into NATO. Wait, who's protecting our sky today? Yeah, Slovenian F-16, yeah, okay. Well, that was such a rhetorical question. These recommendations, however, are as follows: 50% for staff, 30% for operation, these are operating costs and maintenance, and 20% for investment. What about us? In fact, in 2013 and 2014 we received almost 80% of the total defence budget, i.e. salaries. For investments – how much?– 10 million. Many say, yes, we buy old iron. That's not true. That's not true. I had this opportunity, I was truly honored that the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art or more precisely the Development Council invited me to present this law. It's a development council. And as far as I know, as far as I can tell, talks are planned with the Ministry of Defence, namely the SAZU and the Ministry of Defence. It is true that I do not pretend that now a large majority of this money would go for research and development, but surely these discussions will lead to a presentation of the possibilities of what Slovenian science has, what opportunities Slovenian science has, not least in the context of the EDA, the European Defence Agency. There's a lot of money for research and development. Last but not least, without the Internet today, we couldn't just live. How did the Internet come to be? That's probably what most of us know, in fact, the military funded it and the beginnings are called ARPANET, but it doesn't even matter today. If I really want to focus now on the amendment to the 4th Article of the Marjan Sarca Group, I would like to highlight the following. First of all, we won't support the amendment. The amendment, I apologize to the motioners, is not rational. He's not rational. But we know what the intensity of this amendment is. The Ministry of Defence, as an investment contractor, will be able to conclude contracts in accordance with the proposed law for their implementation, with which it will assume its obligations for several years. This is for the period 2021 to 2026. Such a solution is necessary as it involves the acquisition of military equipment and weapons for a specific market. We probably agree with that here. It's a specific market. Manufacturers of such technological advanced equipment shall not produce such advanced equipment in stock, but for a known buyer, after the contract has been signed, with specified specifications, versions, characteristics of the equipment agreed in the contract. The anticipated delivery deadline for more demanding military systems is also 18 months or more from the date of signature of the contract. In addition, provision is made for the higher value of the project and the dynamics of production generally divided over a longer period of time, from two to three years from the first delivery, since the total investment simply cannot be made financially in one financial year or budget period. In the case of military equipment contracts, this is specific equipment, which is also subject to specific procurement rules as defined by Directive 2009/81/EU or the national law on public procurement in the field of defence and security adopted by the National Assembly. The applicant or LMŠ wishes to limit the obligation to the end of the current government's term of office, which is contrary to the basic purpose and objectives of the law. Taking into account the specificities of the acquisition of military equipment, such a provision would make the law virtually irrelevant, since it would not allow for the implementation of the planned equipment projects of the Slovenian Armed Forces. That and more, there are many reasons why not this amendment. But I'd like to make one more point. As for investments in the Slovenian Army, which Minister Tonin also talked about, there was a lot of sneezing by LMŠ, if not true. I do not want to read a magnetogram of the Foreign Policy Committee meeting held in the morning of August 17th, 2018. This is on the day that the National Assembly voted on the candidate for term of office for Mr Marjan Šarc, and we on the Committee on Foreign Policy chaired by my esteemed colleague Matjaž Nemec discussed the initiative to conclude an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the organisation for joint arms cooperation, namely OCCAR, on the management of Boxer. Indeed, for such initiatives, the Committee on Foreign Policy must, in accordance with the Law on Foreign Affairs, treat or give a green light at all times. At the very beginning of this meeting, colleague Miha Kordiš proposed that the point should be withdrawn, perhaps moved to one of the following meetings, but I think, do not hold me to the point of withdrawing. The vast majority voted against this procedural decision, including the then coalition. And we went ahead with the debate. Then this same colleague Miha Kordish said the following, I do not quote, I speak from memory, but the magnetogram exists. He warned the coalition that we have an important vote today, 17 August 2018, and warned that the coalition should count. Then followed the break proposed by the then coalition, colleague Kordish knew the fear of being pushed into the bones and the board turned around – a procedural proposal on the withdrawal of the point was voted out. It was only after writing to the president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, what is now with this initiative, a few months later that this initiative was withdrawn by the Government on 27 February 2019. This is a school case of political trade – I will give my voice only so that the state does not receive arms. You can challenge me for anything, but we can also do an exercise, read a magnetogram, but I don't want that. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, that we shouldn't be playing games like this: I'll give my vote for this – let me interpret – that the army will be naked and barefoot, that it will be driven by bicycles, or how. All the strategies, the decisions of the Defence Committee, were, as they say, the book, that goes into the acquisition of the program, into the implementation of the Boxer program, then suddenly, I regret, on the state holiday changing the boards, everything was thrown into the basket. This is just one example of the army taking action when the army was humiliated. Today we have a chance to do a retrial. Not to take health care, God forbid, not to take the elderly, God forbid. If anyone does, New Slovenia knows what homes are for older citizens. When was the last country built? The answer is 2008 when Nova Slovenije led a department that is responsible for the elderly or more specifically for the homes of older citizens. And now we're going to build five. There's also a concession, a concession invitation for a thousand 100 beds, but that's not the topic right now. Not but the military or health — both. They both have to be. Slovenia is rich enough to fund both. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I ask if there is still interest in the debate. I can see that. I'm opening the list. Please sign in. Two reported discussers. The first takes the floor, Mr Rudi Medved, and then Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u212	Thank you very much. But there'll be a debate if it's not a replica. I would answer my respectable colleague Horvath only with regard to his mention of the notion of urgency, with which he somehow wanted us to understand it in a kind of deplorable sense. There is no particular intention, however, since we have already made clear in the debate what the purpose of this amendment is. In these two years, as we propose, it is, of course, possible to buy personal equipment, to start infrastructure investments. These aren't things that would require I don't know what very long-term planning. Why do we want to limit this to these two years, but we said it in the very explanation. But in these precarious situations, completely uncertain situations, when we do not know what will happen next year in the area of public finances, what will happen in a few years' time, it is not hygienic to commit some future government, whatever it may be, to make this government a hygienic commitment and then to bring it into a position of constant criticism, not respecting the law, and of course constitutional accusations, and who knows what else. That's all it is, and there's no hidden motive behind it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Like the last Mr. Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u214	Thank you. It seems to me that the proponents here have somehow possessed their own lies. They tell us, they prevent us from getting 10.5 billion euros from Europe and that we can now afford everything, military, housing, health care, homes for the elderly. Money is no longer a problem. But it's true that this year you're acting like this, this year's budget has 4.2 billion deficits, which is about three TES 6, and you're now throwing 780 million into the military, but for everything else it's going to be hard. In fact, this 10 billion is not 10 billion. Of this, 3.5 billion loans should be deducted, of which 3.7 billion payments should be deducted into the European budget and 3.3 billion remain. So the money you've spent so far. And everything we're going to take goes into the middle of another investment in the country. The fact is that Slovenia has been proving for 10 years that it is not rich enough to build any suitable housing capacity for young people, we are missing 10,000 apartments. We have previously heard from a coalition member that when we buy these tanks, Slovenia will be so safe that people will have more children. Come on, please, we have half the population here who lives with their parents at the age of 30. Do you think it's because they're afraid of war or because they don't have an apartment? Then you say we'll build five homes for the elders. 60 are missing and 10,000 are missing — when will this be built? All those waiting for them will probably be in the grave by then. And when you say, development and research. This year they further reduced the resources for science in the budget and Slovenia gives 0.6% of GDP per year for science, the European Union average is 2.5 times higher, 1.4%. That percentage, if it goes that way, we'll never get caught. But when you say that investments in the military eventually turn into investments in science, you need to look at which angle or which country you're speaking from. I agree, the Internet, LCD screen, GPS devices, all developed essentially by the U.S. Army. The information revolution was born there. And when the American state invests in its army, it invests in some way also in its research sector. For them it is an investment that has a multiple effect, it creates jobs, it creates new technologies, it creates ultimately fertile soil for new and new commercial and industrial breakthroughs. However, when Slovenia purchases EUR 780 million of foreign weapons, this will not create any jobs or a single euro of multiplier effect in Slovenia and build even a metre of any infrastructure. That's what we're talking about. In Levika we are not against the Slovenian army, far from it. We want to have well-dressed, well-dressed and socially secure soldiers after the 45th year, which the amendment and I have been trying to achieve in the previous law today, but it seems foolish to us that the valuable investment money that we have been missing for almost a decade in virtually all areas will now be put on priority and for the next six years to purchase foreign weapons. Too many developing industries, including public health and social security, are at risk of being so irresponsible to their own people for the next decade.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u215	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the list of debaters. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I conclude the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby interrupt this agenda item and the 20th meeting of the assembly, which we shall continue by voting in half an hour, which is at 7 p.m. and 30 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 18.57 and resumed at 7.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u216	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. I inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 10, 18, 19, 5, 6, 11, 20 and 21 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 28. 9. 2020, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Members' groups Levica, LMŠ, SAB and SD to Article 24. Comrade Željko Cigler, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u217	Thank you very much, President. The proposed amendment is the deletion of Article 24 of the law, which we are currently talking about and which constitutes a risk of political pressure on state prosecutors. In view of recent developments and political pressures by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular its President Ivan Janez Janša, on the State Prosecutor's Office regarding the prosecution of protestors, such dependence on the decision-making of the Head of the Prosecutor may rightly concern us, as it can have a significant impact on the decisions of state prosecutors, which should be of a professional nature. Otherwise, it may be that the State prosecutor, under pressure from the leader, will have to initiate a procedure, even though he does not see compelling reasons for rejecting or accepting a criminal charge. It is also clear from all of this that the proposed article reduces the level of legal and legal certainty in the Republic of Slovenia and creates the possibility of political pressure on state prosecutors. Therefore, we propose the amendment to delete Article 24 and that Levica vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Ms Tina Heferle's colleague on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We have, of course, joined the LMŠ Group in signing this amendment that this article, an extremely controversial article, is deleted from this law. Why, I could talk long and wide, but I don't have time. Maybe I'll slip into the next one. The two highest institutions, as regards the state prosecutor's office in the country, are very clear and consistent on this issue. The State Prosecutor's Council has said that it opposes any change in this regime that we now have, either directly or indirectly, and that it opposes any influence on the independence and independence of state prosecutors. Furthermore, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has stated that they even assess that such a proposal as you propose is contrary to the principles of the rule of law and the international standards on the functioning and position of state prosecutors in the exercise of a state prosecutor's office, i.e. prosecution. I find those words to be very difficult and very plausible. In the LMŠ Group, we wonder what else the profession should say more than what it has said on the committee and also in the documents that we all have available and we can all read, it is said that this disagreement is that we are interfering with the regulation of the actions of state prosecutors only in the area that affects the rejection of criminal charges in the worst crimes. This clearly represents an impact, a direct impact on the work of the Attorney General every time he meets the case when he evaluates whether he will continue to process the criminal complaint or reject it because he will expertly judge that the matter is not standing and does not drink water. So once again, in the LMŠ Group, in such amendments to legislation that seriously interfere with the independence of law enforcement authorities, which seriously interfere with the autonomous and professional work of state prosecutors, who, we know, are the guardian of prosecution, we simply will not cooperate. If our amendment, the amendment of the opposition, is not confirmed, we will also reject this law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u220	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 48. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Comrade Željko Cigler, explanation of vote on behalf of the member of the group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u221	The Levica Group will vote against the law because the law in this form constitutes the legal basis for political pressure and political direction of the Slovenian State Prosecutor's Office, and thus also undermines the independent branch of the judiciary in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u222	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 37. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 May. 9. 2020, published on the e-club. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 124 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of the votes of Members and Members present are necessary for the adoption of an individual amendment. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 1(1). Comrade Matthew T. Vatovec, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u223	Thank you, President. With the amendment, we are proposing something very simple, something that has been pointed out by three Slovenian Army unions. This is to delete the preparedness allowance received by the signatories or members of the Slovenian Armed Forces reserve. This is an anomaly that has existed in this law for a long time, which is pointed out by the unions, because this supplement belongs to a spare composition, not to soldiers who are in permanent composition, to those who are in fact also in such cases, when necessary, ready and must react quickly. The union also points out that as a result of this, a great deal of discriminating is also opening up to members of the permanent composition because they see this as discriminatory and unfair, so that we propose deleting this payment for standby. That's it. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u224	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 51. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 1 under Article 2. Comrade Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u225	Another controversial aspect of this law is that it essentially introduces a novelty into the Defence Act, and this is that members of the Slovenian Army reserve may be members of political parties. This is a unique one, which is also, of course, contrary to the Constitution, where it is very clearly stated that professional members of the Slovenian Army and the Police must not be members of political parties. Let me stress here that the reserve is also part of the Slovenian Army, which is a professional army. By proposing the deletion of this provision. I must add that in the law itself, both in the introductory explanation and in the explanation of the articles, there is no explanation as to why this mechanism is needed. In Levika, of course, we are extremely concerned about this move by Minister Tonin, who is alone in the hearing when he was not yet Minister, said he would try to complete the Slovenian Army reserve if necessary, including with members of the so-called Wards, which could of course be a great threat to the Slovenian Army and to where it will flow. By proposing the deletion of this provision, because it seems to us, of course, contrary to the Constitution, and particularly controversial from the point of view of who could join the Slovenian Army. We will vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u226	We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 52. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the supplementary proposal of the law has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. In doing so, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 124 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of the votes of Members and Members present are necessary for the adoption of the law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Comrade Matthew T. Vatovec, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u227	Thank you. We will vote against the amendment of the Defence Act in the leftist group. The main reason is that the Ministry and Government do not really solve the issue of soldiers after 45 years with this law. This is also pointed out by three of the four trade unions operating in the field of the Slovenian Armed Forces – the Defence Ministry Union, the Military Union, Defence and Protection, and the Union of Pilots of the Ministry of Defence. In fact, even all four unions in this area are not satisfied with this law. Moreover, all four unions were ignored in the drafting of the law by Minister Tonin. There was no social dialogue, there was no desire to obtain at least the position of trade unions and employees in the Slovenian Army, and the fact is that this law will not improve the situation of soldiers after 45 years. In Levica, we proposed an amendment for the committee to allow all members of the Slovenian Army to continue their career in the Slovenian Army, that is to say, to delete this strange and illogical restriction for 45 years, because there are already anomalies when some soldiers can work across this age line, but we have not been heard. Once again, this is also a solution advocated by the trade unions, which are advocated by soldiers, soldiers, and a solution that would allow them to remain in their service for an indefinite period of time. Only in this way would they be provided with social security, thus providing them with some career security. On the contrary, the Ministry proposes some measure that will undermine the public sector wage system, some measure that introduces further discrimination within the entire system of public servants, which is, of course, unacceptable to us. Not to mention what we have proposed to delete with amendments, that is, the inclusion of various political groups, such as guards and similar paramilitary political parties, in the Slovenian Army's reserve and the unfair readiness allowance. For all these reasons, we cannot support or vote against the law in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Comrade Rudi Medved explains the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u229	Thank you very much. We have heard several times that the proposed amendment to the law is the first step towards resolving the status of soldiers after 45 years. What's the other one? Because it will be very quickly needed because we feel that the Minister will unfortunately stumble in this first step. Otherwise, the first step has already been taken by the government of Marjan Šarc with purely concrete financial incentives for the extension of employment contracts for around 3 000 soldiers, it has maintained the employment of soldiers within the Ministry of Defence, and some of these measures, as regards the re-employment of soldiers in the public sector, are of course in line with the fundamental rule: equal pay for equal work. Otherwise, it's a very good purpose, and we don't deny that it isn't, but it's a path, and it's not the right path. If even those to whom the law is intended do not believe in salvation, why, then, did the minister rush and forcefully bring this law into the National Assembly? The resolution of the status of soldiers, as proposed by the Ministry of Defence, is in practice impossible. We have kept saying this because this solution will crash into the Public Sector Wages Act, cause unrest throughout the public sector, and the victims will be soldiers, so they will be informed that something will be resolved, and that will not be possible in practice. After all, this leads to a breakdown of the single pay system, whatever it is now, even though we have heard it several times today – that the single pay system is no longer in place. Of course, the law still applies and wages are still paid in the public sector under this law. Not to mention attempts to politicise the Slovenian Armed Forces when the parties are legally allowed to join the reserve. Because of all this, we will not oppose this law, we will not oppose these solutions, but we will not support the law, because we simply cannot take responsibility for the consequences that will in practice prove very quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? No, no, no. She's a colleague of her own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sure I can't support this marriage. Why? For the first time, because it is clear that the social dialogue has not been carried out, three of the four unions of soldiers and soldiers point out this. Who is this law intended for, if not soldiers and soldiers? Obviously not them, because they're not being listened to. As it is said, this law is another example of the arrogance and incompetence of this government. Arrogance is because, as it is said, you whistle at the fact that there are anti-constitutional elements in it, as the Law-Legal Service has said, and you whistle at it. Arrogance because you've bypassed social dialogue because you don't listen to arguments, but you're actually demagogic about saving the status of soldiers and soldiers after 45 years. The Minister even stated that it would facilitate the acquisition of loans to soldiers and soldiers. Really? Then why don't you make a deal with them for an indefinite period of time? That's the only way they could hire loans. Because as long as they have a fixed-term contract until the age of 45, I'm sorry, they're on the same track as they were, as far as that's concerned. After 45 years, they have no guarantee that they will be taken care of, only to take selective care of some. However, the Minister's argument on politicisation is also absurd, if practice is already such, we do not check whether anyone belongs to political parties, so we will just legalise it. Please! It's as if they're making fun of themselves. You are here to ensure that legislation is implemented, but not to adapt to practices that do not follow legislation. I will absolutely vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u232	Thank you very much. My friend just Bevk in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u233	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I will support the amendment of the Defence Act not only because it regulates the status of a professional soldier after 45 years of age, but also because changes will also help the younger generation. When young people decide on their careers, they will know that they are also taken care of after 45 years of age if of course they choose professional service in the Slovenian Army. Thus, their social security will be less uncertain and will make it easier for them to plan their professional and private journey. Such a solution was also presented in the amendment of the law in 2014–2018 proposed by then-resort minister Andrej Katič, Minister of Defence of Social Democrats. It's a social-democratic theme, so I'll support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I'm passing out the applications for the list, and I can see that there's still a desire to explain the voice. Applications are under way. Franz Duck has the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. I don't know what a man would think. On the one hand, we would have a country, and we would have an army, and we would have taken responsibility, and we would not have taken responsibility, and one of us would have gone "when we're at the trough, we're doing whatever we want" and we'd have a professional army, and we wouldn't have regulated the professional army's personnel policy. Maybe we're not for the country, let's stop it at this vote. I will support this bill because, kid, I mean, sometimes we have to act in a state-of-the-art way, not just when we're burning down some cabin over 1,000 feet. Good night.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u236	Thank you very much. My colleague Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u237	I called first of all so that they won't look for how I voted, because I vote as I think I will say by heart. I believe in the Slovenian Army, General. I believe everything's not all right, but I believe most of it's okay. I believe that there will be no guards in this Slovenian army because they cannot come to the reserve because they have to make different, I will say, obstacles to coming to the reserve army at all. There are our citizens and citizens in the reserve army, whom we value. That's the first thing. If we were so afraid of these guards, we could have shown up 14 days ago and voted on the law. Another thing I'd like to say. I don't know exactly if this is a departure from this public now. What's, what's it called? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] System, thank you very much, my friend. Whether this is a derogation from the wage system in the public sector, I don't know. But I know that I will do better with this vote than what it is now. But I know I'll do better than I've done before. Soldiers who finish their 45th career will take with them the pay grade that they have received to this day, and they will not fall for eight or nine or 10 classes. It's like a Social Democrat for me, and even though Matthew Tonin accepted it, it's just enough to press this key for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u238	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Jerco Korca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u239	Thank you very much. We decide on a proposal that has a two-thirds majority, and this in itself indicates how important it is to seek a broad consensus. If anyone, I want the Slovenian Army to lay the foundations it deserves. Last time I was raised at home and grew up with a soldier, a veteran of the war for Slovenia and I think the Slovenian Army means something, I'm not opposed to her, just the opposite. I wish I could function and have the place that she deserves. However, I cannot agree that the social status of soldiers is regulated without social dialogue, that trade unions, which should be the first to have talks with the minister, will deny support. This suggests to me that the Minister was unable to seek compromises, consensus and to formulate the best proposal that this army could deserve. The second problem I have is that members of political parties in the Slovenian Army do not belong because the military is and must remain a non-political, apolitical organisation. Everyone has their beliefs, but I do not see the need to formally introduce them into the Slovenian Army. And the third time. Breaking down the single pay system without the Government telling us what an alternative is, an alternative to other groups, means unilateral intervention and that is certainly never good. The question is too much, the answers were too little, and I apologize, but this proposal that we have on the table is nothing more than ad hoc thesis of Minister Tonin that he will be able to say that he has done something and will in fact cause a lot of bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Who else wants to explain their voice? Yeah, buddy mag. Then I'll reopen the application for the list.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u241	I'm not impressed, President, that you missed me, but that happens sometimes. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'll support the marriage. I had the honour of being in a joint government, at first with Mr Jank Webro, later with Mrs Andreja Katič, and I saw the traumas of both ministers who simply could not obtain sufficient broad support. And they wanted to, and there was too much opposition to return honor to Slovenian soldiers and soldiers. Today, to say that we are doing things nonsystemically — and people, dear, is an unsystematic arrangement! People, when they're 45 years old, lose their jobs, and the state lets them down! Do you understand that?Oh, my God! It's off-the-book now. And today to discuss whether we are going to help these poor people is something that upsets me a little. It is difficult for me to say whether Mr Tonin's current solution, namely, you, Minister, and your associates, is ideal. I know that she went in the same direction as Andreja Katič did, and I don't know if she was hers, but she was looking for a way to help soldiers and soldiers, that's what I appreciate. I appreciate the Slovenian Army. There is no Slovenian state without the Slovenian Army. I will therefore vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Applications shall be made for explanations of vote. Who else wants to explain their voice? The first word is from colleague Bojana Muršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u243	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I'll support the marriage myself. It's because the status of the soldiers after 45 is necessary. It's time, three years ago, we've been fighting to change this law, and finally we have a law on the table that will somehow help soldiers after 45 years, and it will also give young people who somehow don't decide on this job some impetus, Elan, to decide on such an important profession as this. I certainly wish there were more soldiers, so I certainly support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u244	Thank you very much. My colleague Marko Bandelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u245	Thank you, Chairman. You hear how some people talk like it's not a system-wide solution. You know, I think looking for a systemic solution is the same as saying we don't want to solve this problem. In this case, I will proudly say that I will vote in favour of this law, because I think it is right to save the status of certain people. Not only do I know a lot of them who went to this job and were then without it — nothing. However, I do not understand how some can vote against this because it is the interest of the whole country to solve this problem once. He's not perfect, he's probably not perfect, he's gonna make it better, he's gonna make it. That is why we are here in Parliament – to take a step forward in these matters and then to correct them. Today we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u247	Thank you for your word, chairman. The solution to the social status of soldiers after 45 years is only one. The fact that this stupid age limit is even removed is no longer applicable to officers or undershepherds. This is also a solution under which conventional soldiers, united into military unions, are also signed in anticipation of contracts for an indefinite period of time. It is also a solution that we have proposed in Levica and we have been voted on. However, the law admits the majority of parliaments through social dialogue with those most affected by regulation, i.e. ordinary soldiers and soldiers. And in fact, what Minister Tonin proposes is not to save the status of soldiers after 45 years, but to legalise the mechanism for human resources corruption. Human resources corruption is a very serious problem at the Ministry of Defence, and especially within the Slovenian Armed Forces. At least those of us who follow the situation a little bit can tell you that. And, of course, in this context of human resources corruption, who can remain in the military, progresses and who needs to get out and which positions the soldiers are transferred after 45 years, are also involved by the Social Democrats. This is a law that needs a two-thirds majority. Citizens and citizens, ladies and gentlemen, if the opposition were to stick together, this harmful law against soldiers who legalise human resources corruption could be abolished – but we will not. You know why? Because the Social Democrats co-operate with the fascist government of Janez Janša in order to legalise human resources corruption in the Slovenian Army. I will vote against this law against Slovenian soldiers, I will vote in favour of the Slovenian Army getting its social status regulated, to the extent possible. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u248	Comrade Kordish, beware of your words. Procedurally, Comrade Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u249	First of all, Mr President, I, with such people who insult me for a collaborator, their fascists, do not want to cooperate. I don't want any part of this! [[Applause]] And because of me, I can be on all the portals tomorrow, and I want to – I live in this country, and they're all the same to me. If I can't argue that you have something wrong, I won't hurt anyone in my life. And please let me, myself, personally, not know about others, me or our Kordish Group of Members apologize for saying that we are collaborators, and also to others that they are fascists. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u250	Comrade Kordish, on the basis of Article 77, I give you a reminder. Another warning: if I give you another warning, I will also take your word and you will not have the opportunity to explain your voice at the following points. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u251	As usual, instead of dealing with legitimate criticism, opponents of my debate are confronted with the signs that I am insulting. Where exactly did I insult you in any way? Ask the unions, they'll tell you a lot about human resources corruption in the Slovenian Army. Ask them because they have also been in coordination with you.He also holds that the government of Janez Janša is fascist. That's my political assessment. I'm standing behind her.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u252	This isn't procedural, mate. My friend Kordish, you have a procedure. If you have a procedural proposal, tell me what your procedural proposal is, if you don't, I'll take your word away.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u253	I am responding to a procedural proposal to apologize if, of course, you will allow me. I think you should let me.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u254	You can just apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u255	You let my foreman do this, why don't you let me? I had a voice explanation - you turned off my microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u256	No, Comrade Kordish, you provoked this situation. If you want, you can make an apology. If you don't have a procedural proposal, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u257	Because I said it honestly. Of course, under Janez Janša's rule, the truth is a provocation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u258	My friend Kordish, I take your word. Voice explanation, Predrag Baković.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u259	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Now we've witnessed, I'll say, a difficult situation where I feel hurt and insulted myself, and I don't really have the words to go on after the attack or the failure of the predecessor. I'll tell you what. If we really don't want to change things for the better, then we always find enough reasons why it's wrong. And then all of this stays the same. But if we want changes, we support them because we see good solutions. I personally see a solution that is better than the present situation, so I will support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u260	Thank you very much. There's a colleague of mag's who's got the word. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. We will also support the proposal of the SAB Group. This bill solves the difficult situation of soldiers after 45 years. Let's remember. They were suspended or terminated after 45 years because they were no longer considered fit for military service and other posts within the Ministry of Defence. This law allows them to work in the wider public sector and to preserve social rights as well as advancements. It is very important to me, from this point of view, that soldiers can then carry out all the knowledge and skills they have acquired in the course of serving their country, military service, including in other areas within one of the broader public spheres. It is very important to me that soldiers confirm themselves through work and that they are not actually on some waiting until retirement at the Ministry of Defence. I think that this is also one of the measures that will encourage young candidates for the military to decide in large numbers to serve military service and to carry out their military profession. It is very important for me to respect the soldiers and respect them in such a way as to allow them one social security and also creation. I'll support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u262	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 65 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026 under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 May. 9. 2020, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 4. Comrade Robert Pavšič, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u263	Thank you for your word. The fact is that the previous government, the government of Marjana Sharca, has really set up the raising of the budget for the defence sector. The point is, it's real. It has already provided €45 million more for investments in this budget, and this minister and this government have not opposed it, but have even agreed to take away 31 million from it. That's why, in the letter of Marjan Šarc, we have proposed an amendment with which we, Minister, are returning these funds to you. In this way, you will be able to immediately purchase helicopters with personal equipment for soldiers and also start other infrastructure investments in defence systems that are urgently needed. Of course, the adoption of this amendment, which is truly well-intentioned, depends on our continued support or our continued attitude towards this law. The point is that we want to be presented before we make a final decision, the real and the whole picture.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u264	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 14 votes in favour, 60 votes in favour. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 60.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 8. Comrade Siter, explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u265	Thank you very much. The key to the development of the army is the soldier. The equipment isn't the business behind the guns, it's the soldier. The army has to regulate working conditions for soldiers and soldiers. They have to listen to the unions. The most eloquent information about the Slovenian Army is that, after all, all the soldiers who go on missions do not do it out of patriotism or out of desire to see the world or to shoot down some poor people in the third world, but to get a concrete salary. Therefore, it is an excuse for the Government to save the reputation, infrastructure and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, attracted to hair, by this law, which gives the arms business 780 million. This law is essentially the basis of the experience of the previous arms business in Slovenia, namely – the new arms business, the new affair, this time the largest. This is the largest remittance from the Slovenian state budget, 780 million. And at a time when science is crouching, which has deteriorated by this budget rebalancing of 23 million, a culture that has lost 8 million, a housing that is missing 10,000, education and public health, which also kneels on their knees. Perhaps even the most in the sky is the situation in nursing homes, and 12 thousand people are waiting for a place in nursing homes. One such simple mathematics says that at this point we need 60 homes, which would be again in simple mathematics worth 300 million, which is not even half of what the Government is investing in this 780 million euro arms deal. Therefore, in order to solve this problem and to avoid the new weapons affairs of the format of Patria, we have only proposed a bigger amendment in Levica, or we propose an amendment that says that a law that weighs 780 million starts to be adopted when the state becomes, and that is the first and most important condition, first to devote 70 million to building a home for the elderly. So, first 70 million for nursing homes, then we can continue to talk about these military businesses. 70 million, by the way, means 10 eight-wheelers. €70 million means 10 eight-wheelers. So, whether eight-wheelers or nursing homes, the decision, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Comrade Matjaž Han, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u267	Thank you very much. I don't think I'm gonna get a round of applause right now, but I have to say my thing. Not one or the other amendments essentially do not solve what we ultimately have to agree on. I think, Minister, that this moment is not the right time for a law that would put millions in the Slovenian Army. I know they need them, I know the general needs them, but since we're in cavid, we have problems, we have 4 billion 300 or 4 billion 200 deficits to open every day of new health stories, and we could apply here to all areas, we simply cannot support this law. I am in favour of going on an annual basis to talk, agree to see what the situation will be, but for a thin version for a marriage that weighs 780 million – Minister, I apologize, you can't get that vote from me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u268	Explanation of voice. On behalf of the MP, Comrade Reich? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Chairman. Even in the SAB Group, we are opposed to such large investments in the Slovenian Army, that is to say, to allocate such funds, amounting to €780 million, for investment in military equipment. In this context, I would like to recall that with this budget rebalance, even 30 million Slovenian troops have been cut off, but now in these uncertain economic situations and situations that are ahead of us, when we do not have a budget for next year or a proposal – some data are coming to us to repay it in billions of dollars – it does not seem that we are making such large amounts for weapons. Nor do we feel that such an amount can be spent within two years. So we will not support and support these proposals, and we will not support this law to such an extent, and we will reject it, because in these situations we believe that our priorities are strong public health, strong education and the start-up of investments, which will also trigger the economic cycle in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? No, no, no. Explanation of the voice in its own name, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u271	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The state's investment assets are very rare and valuable. In the last decade, public investment has collapsed in Slovenia, as elsewhere in Europe, and the consequences are known everywhere. Culture still doesn't have that percentage of the budget it had decades ago. Science in Slovenia is funded 2.5 times less than the European average. The last home for the elderly was built, if I am not mistaken, in 2015. We don't talk about housing policy until then. About half the young generation live at home for up to 30 years. The government somehow inherited its own lies with this law. They say 10 billion and a half will come from Europe, but out of these 10 billion will have to count down 3 billion and a half loans, 3 billion 700 payments, and then we'll get a real net amount of 3 billion 300 and 2 billion 100, as far as we get the grant to shut down the codcrisis. And it must be said that this year's budget hole is already twice as big as the grants that came from Europe. That's what I'm pointing out because once you confirm this law, you'll give priority to arms acquisitions for the next six years. And every year, when we talk about why there is a shortage of housing, health, science, culture, development, the answer will be clear: because at some point some policy has decided to buy weapons instead, which will not create any jobs in Slovenia and will not trigger a euro of investment or a multiplier effect. That's why I'm going to vote for our amendment. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u272	Thank you. The word is from my colleague Željko Ciegler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I will vote in favour of the amendment of the Left because, earlier, Minister Tonin has made it clear that this 780 million public money, which is a virtually 500 million weapons, which we already have every year – every year we have 100 million in the framework of the defence budget for investment and additional money to obtain an army for the purchase of weapons 300 million. 300 million. With the law, we will practically commit this country to investing in research and development, in education, in arms, regardless of the social, health, employment crisis, and the lack of money for homes for the elderly. On the one hand we have no money, we talk about there is no money, there is no $20 million for investment in primary schools and schools by municipalities in Slovenia, there is no money for the homes of pensioners. One home of pensioners for between 150 and 200 people costs 5 million euros – we are talking about 780 million! There's no money for culturers, let alone research and development. Instead of providing this difference between 500 and 780 million for the cultural euro, for the pension euro, for the health euro to build an infection clinic, for the school euro, with which to build the additional necessary kindergarten and primary school facilities for the implementation of public programmes, and for what the state needs most, for the development research euro, we invest in weapons. I will vote in favour of our amendment and against such a legal orientation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u274	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Violet Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u275	Thank you, Madam President. It is true that the most important security is in life, but at this moment Slovenia is by no means militarily threatened, but is food, health, social. And these priorities do not justify this moment of buying weapons. I would say that the bill is already the wrong title, i.e. investment in the Slovenian Army. Investment is something you invest in getting paid. But it's a black hole throw. We'll buy armor, we know that Patricia's never driven before, and that's something that's actually not going to help us. It will benefit the arms business and it is simply a purchase of weapons, there is certainly no investment. At a time when we have 4.2 billion deficits, this 780-million investment is a mildly unworthy invitation. Instead of really taking care of health care, where we know that we have an epidemic and that a fellow threatens not only Slovenia, but the whole world to take care of culture, because there would really be an investment to pay off because it would return money to us to take care of development, to take care of young people and our most vulnerable older ones by building a home for older citizens, no, we're throwing money away, into the arms business, where the commissions will probably fly back to heaven. I will absolutely vote in favour of our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u276	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague named Natasha Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u277	Thank you very much. I think we need to ask ourselves two key questions, because there has been so much talk about what security really is and what patriotism is. That's what this place has been about all along. Is it safe to build enough non-profit housing to strengthen the public health system again, to invest in our own knowledge, in science, in culture, to fight to eradicate poverty, or is it to buy some eight-wheelers and other military arsenals that are primarily suitable for foreign missions, that is, eight-wheelers who are not even suitable for our territory and who we will be able to cut into old iron over so many years and so? Is that security? And what is patriotism? Is this a concern for the well-being of your own people, or is it simply investing money in the arms business abroad, really supporting the foreign arms industry? Answer it yourself, I have already answered myself, and of course I will absolutely support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u278	Thank you very much. The text is by colleague Robert Polnar. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Not words?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u279	Excuse me, Mr President, I wanted a procedural discussion earlier because, I think, they discussed beyond that, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u280	All right, all right. My colleague Bandelli has the floor, and then I don't have any more applications to explain my vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u281	Thank you, President. At this point, I think the army is truly, literally fed. It is nourished and we all understand that, and we are also aware that it would be a moment for us to make a little more concrete and buy certain equipment that has taken so many years and so many years. But at this point, I think it's irresponsible. This isn't the right time. Half the money is shells, there are no technical helicopters in the program, and there are no fire-extinguishing planes in the program, which I have mentioned so many times. The economy is questionable, we have 4.2 billion holes, we're talking about a new partial lockdown, it's already mentioned. I personally do not have the heart to vote for this purpose at this time, when I can probably see other priorities, such as health care, education and, above all, infrastructure. If I just think about the chaos around 2DKK for a good billion and where we're going to get money and make credit for 30 years, now there's no problem at all buying armor in six years for 780 million. So I'm sorry, I think it's completely and totally irresponsible right now. I also proposed a moratorium on this for two years, not adopted. So I'm afraid I'm going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u282	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 50. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. In the second reading of the amendment, no additional draft law was adopted. I inform you that the assembly on the draft law will not take a full decision at this meeting. A proposal for a consultation referendum on the content of the bill has been tabled. The proposal for a consultative referendum and the draft law under consideration are thus mutually binding. The assembly should take into account Article 28 of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative when deciding on the draft law, which means that the assembly on the proposal for an advisory referendum must decide before it finally decides on the proposal for a law. The draft law will therefore be decided by the assembly following the decision of the National Assembly on the proposal for a referendum. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021 and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in the context of the shorter procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 24. 9. 2020, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 1. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 49. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Comrade Franz Jurš.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u283	Thank you so much for saying that, President. It is right for me to make this point of the agenda and once again say that the Desus Group will vote in favour of this law. For it is the correction of injustices, and if we vote today, it means that there is still 3.6% of the correction of injustices from the past when we were in a difficult economic situation and the pensions were not regularly harmonised. 2% does not mean much, but in the long run, every percentage is still well-known, and also this 2% has somehow managed to pull all the pressure we can through the process. To all those who will vote for this solution, I thank you very much on behalf of the pensioners in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, colleague of Jerco Korča.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u285	Thank you very much. We will, of course, support this increase or reconciliation of pensions in the Marjan Šarca Group of Members, but it would still be necessary to say that the government of Janez Janša is responsible for the 8% reduction of pensions in 2012 in order to bring the pensions into line by 7.4% at the time of the government of Marjan Šarca, and that is why we have not attached any credit and anything else. It is definitely not fair to have a pension of EUR 555 in Slovenia, the lowest pension of EUR 241 – that is not fair and that is not fair. However, it is necessary to take a look, and one day you must finally see to the politicians where the reasons for this situation are. First time. The balance between those who pay in the pension box on the one hand and those who are retired today is very small. But on the other hand, the government of Janez Janša is cutting funds for an active employment policy. Another time. Our society is getting older, but Janez Janša’s government does not give housing policy so that young people can become independent. And the third time. Yes, low added value to the employee, which means less income to the pension fund. However, Janez Janša’s government is cutting in research and development. And then you say that the demographic fund will miraculously solve anything. At the same time, we all know who has committed brutal tycunization and businesses have put in the hands of some of their colleagues, and today, if we take only the case of Minister Viszak and Petrol, this mode of operation has not changed. And then Janez Janša and this government would like to talk about pensions and too low pensions. The politician is working for the people and the community, and the politician is working for himself and for other brilliant fools. And that's what we're witnessing today. It is time, and I hope, that we will be able to see not only the elections, but also the elections. However, it is fair and fair that we all together today confirm the rise in pensions for the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u286	Ms Kociper's colleague on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u287	On behalf of the SAB Group of Members. Of course, we are always happy to support all proposals and decisions that can improve the status of pensioners. We support this law because it provides for extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in 2%. Nevertheless, we regret that this National Assembly has not accepted our initiative to ensure that, in accordance with the principle of fairness and in accordance with the principle of solidarity of our pension scheme, extraordinary reconciliation of pensions takes place in a fixed amount, it is said in nominal amount. This would mean that those who are now below the threshold of poverty and are truly struggling to survive, even though they have been working their entire lives, would slowly move beyond the poverty threshold and would not need social transfers that are extremely offensive to them. By means of this law, which we will obviously all support today, the coalition has demonstrated that extraordinary coordination can be carried out in any way, even with the amendment of the law, where there is no economic growth, which has always been the purpose of extraordinary harmonisation. If it is possible to make an extraordinary adjustment against current regulation even if there is no economic growth, it can also be made in nominal terms, much more just. Nevertheless, the marriage will be supported in the SAB, and we are happy to see that one of the pensioners improves his life. For those who have very good pensions, he will improve it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u288	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 88 votes against none. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases in the framework of the shorter procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 24. 9. 2020, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 3. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 6 becomes irrelevant, since the amendments are substantively linked. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 58. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 3 has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 6 has become irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u289	Thank you, President. We support in the parliamentary group the statutory compulsory vaccination against the worst diseases. This is also true of the present situation. In the parliamentary group, we also trust experts who teach us that vaccination is one of the most successful methods and achievements of modern medicine and has saved over hundreds of millions of lives. The one where we do not agree with the proposers is the following. We know that transplantation has begun to decline in recent years, but we are pleased that according to official data for 2019 it has risen again. What we've all forgotten together is a terrible mistrust. According to the Ministry of Health, only 47% are mothers who still trust vaccination. And let me tell you, 34% of mothers just don't know who to trust and the others are against. So we have a serious problem because people do not trust, although the Government has a programme 2017, 2018 and 2019, how to communicate more and for 2020 only some correction. This communication was obviously partially successful in 2019 because of the increase in grafting and, on the other hand, it is not sufficient. And there is something else that we have learned, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Those who are interested in whether the vaccine is safe — do you know how the agency responsible for the medicine responds? By a decision. In one case, we do not have data or a safety study, and in the other case, the study is a business secret. That is why we have given Members and Members of the Ministry the initiative to regulate this area. We have been waiting for the first answer – and thank you, Mr President, for your intervention – for exactly three months. But you know the rules of procedure, they have to answer in 30 days. The answer was this: we also believe that there must be greater transparency, but the Law on Medicines does not allow this. Now I've made a summary. Yeah, we didn't ask that. We asked what you would do to ensure that those — but these are relatively few — who are interested in more information are able to access the data. That is why we have re-submitted the question. So, right now, we don't see any reason for the legislation to get sharp. We call on the Government and everything to be done more in the field of trust, we call on the Government to come through a change of law to make the data more accessible. However, if this does not work, we are also prepared to amend the legislation on vaccination. But first let us give the opportunity to communicate and transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Branislav Rajić on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u291	Thank you very much. In Slovenia, preschool children have fallen to 93%. This is under the measure of ensuring collective health. As a society, we had to do something to raise this percentage to the level that will ensure the same safety for all children against infectious diseases. Health is an important value and today we are just ahead of the goal of ensuring its existence. The law proposed by the Modern Centre Party has the support of coalition partners, and it was our coalition commitment, as well as the opposition. The law also supports the profession. This is not a vote for the execution of vaccine repression, nor is it a voice of support for pharmaceutical corporations. This is the voice for transparency of safety studies of vaccines and this is the voice of modern medicine against uninformed individuals who, in irresponsible envy alone, can cast the entire population on the brink of health risk. By today’s decision, we will show the determination that all our children will be safe from resurgent outbreaks of long - eradicated infectious diseases. Today, those who oppose it here reject science, and from the personal fears of people they find electoral support. Slovenia, together with Norway, is the world's first quality of life for children. This achievement is the backbone of a whole range of thoughtful policies and actions. It will be preserved only if we act as conscious parents responsible for the benefit of all children and not just those who grow up under our heart. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will vote unitedly in favour. But we thank all those who support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Comrade Victory Jelinčič Tribal on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u293	Thank you very much. My colleague before me actually said what I was going to say. But I'll point it out again. You have to consider your expertise. And if Mr. Jew studied medicine or pharmaceuticals, not veterinary medicine, he wouldn't be talking such nonsense.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u294	Comrade Jelinčič, please, no such observations. That's really unnecessary. Ms Kociper's colleague on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u295	Like most other Members of the SAB Group, we have probably received hundreds and hundreds of messages in connection with this law, showing how important and how very emotional this topic is for some people. Some of them were correct, they had substantive emphasis, and some of them were such, and I will also say in the microphone that individuals threatened us with private lawsuits, prosecutions, and I don't know what to do if we don't vote against this law. I have written down to some that, as I do not allow myself to be pressured by pharmaceutical corporations, I also do not allow myself to be pressured by the way I vote, voters. But if I explain the voice of the SAB and how this question separates, how important the value of health is, and how important it is that people understand what vaccination means, we do not think that the law of the Member is the right solution to such questions. An emissary law, which is passed on short notice, not at all. This should be an expert government law that responds to the fears of these people, because in the SAB party we are convinced that vaccination is one of the greatest civilisational gains of any society and that we should all be vaccinated, but we will not be able to do so if there is no profession behind which to tell people that these vaccines are healthy. For this reason, we will abstain from this issue in the SAB Group today. However, we expect the government to come with the same solution, with the expert justification of experts who will ensure that the vaccines are safe.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u296	We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 12. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 24. 9. 2020, published on the e-club. First, we decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 1(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SMC Group shall become irrelevant to the same Article under number 2. Mr Luka Moon, explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u297	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! I would first like to thank everyone for a constructive debate so far. I think the law has the support that 17 years after the trade referendum on Sundays, we finally close. But we have a problem that the law can still fall in the Constitutional Court, even though we give it the green light today. That is why our interest, followed by the amendments – and I will explain to all three amendments on the table with one explanation – our interest as the proposer is to add as few exceptions as possible to the law as possible, to the less potentially constitutional exceptions, so that the law survives the Constitutional Court. In fact, the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Marić Lah – that is, the president of the only organisation in the country that strongly opposes the law, all others agree with it more or less, from trade unions to religious communities, from civil society to, after all, the owners of trade chains have also quietly agreed because no one protested loudly. The only organization opposed this is the Chamber of Commerce, which announced that the law would be challenged in the Constitutional Court. It is therefore essential that, during the vote today, we adopt amendments in such a way that there will be as few exceptions as possible in the law. But the law in Levica, after consulting the parliamentary groups, was designed so that, on one hand, 30,000 workers and workers working on Sundays could stay at home and on the other hand small shops could operate if, on Sundays, there were no employees working there, but managers, prosecutors and other legal representatives of companies. In order to achieve this, we will support the first amendment we have proposed in Levica, which allows what I have just described, saying that small stores are open even on Sundays if managers and not workers work there. We have passed this on from good practice abroad, especially in the Swiss example. However, we will vote against the amendments of the SMC, which are tabled because these two amendments introduce additional exceptions to the law, extending work to family members and restricting work to 10 weeks a year, which are not well explained and there is a risk that they will be subject to a dispute in the Constitutional Court or that they will be the reason for the law to fall in the wake of a possible constitutional assessment. So, as we say, the first amendment, our amendment will be supported, and the two amendments to the SMC will be rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u298	Thank you very much. My friend Gregor Perič, on behalf of the MP? In my own name. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? [[Yeah.]] Mag. Rajić on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u299	Thank you very much. The amendment proposed by the Left does not, of course, take into account all those who have spent their entire lives in creating their trade, their business, and in some ways denies them the right to devote themselves, regardless of the size of the space they have created, to this work whenever they want and when it is most necessary, on Sundays, to holidays, especially if they are in tourist areas. Why not help their family members? In this case, we believe that this amendment is not good enough and that is why we propose our own. We will therefore vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Comrade Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u301	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! “I’m working, I don’t have a burek.” This is the title of one project and one survey was carried out within this project within the framework of the Youth Plus Union. That's when they found out the following things. In order to spend a month without a student's job, young unemployed people would also work in black on account of the absence of a student's work. About three quarters of the students would have had a hard time spending a month if they did not have a student's job, and about 70% of the students confirmed that student work is important not only because of the financial leverage or impact, but also because they gain experience in this area, which they cannot give them. With the amendment proposed by the Left, students, students and also pensioners are allowed to do so on Sundays in stores, of course to those who want to do so and to those who need it. So the right to work, as proposed in the SMC, is taken from these three categories. That's why I will not personally support such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u302	Thank you very much. My friend Luke Moon in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u303	Thank you. I'm telling you again. The essence of this law is that 30,000 workers and workers in trade, who do not work on Sundays of their own free will, but because of their contract of employment, allow them to be free on Sundays. If you read their stories, you will see that the trade profession today often means working with six-day workers and means working where people often come only once every 14 days to the point where they are free on Sunday. The point is that this completely unnecessary exploitation of people in stores is stopped. Shops are closed in Austria, Switzerland, Germany, and so on in countries where we can follow the example that we often follow, and there is no problem with this. And I repeat, this amendment, which we are about to vote on, is not only an amendment on managers, but it allows those traders in small stores who want to work on Sundays to work, and can also work on their family members, the only condition is that they are involved in the management of society. With this amendment, we save more flies at one point. Saving small stores, saving family stores, saving shops in tourist areas. And the point is, with this one exception, to engage such a broad crowd, and on the other hand, this exception is transferred from good practices abroad and written on the basis of the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which we have obtained several opinions of lawyers that are not unconstitutional. Once again, we will vote for the law to survive the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u304	Thank you very much. A colleague of Matthew the Widow in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I will vote against the motioner's amendment myself. Another law that comes from the Left, which is a populist law for which 85% of Slovenians want to close. I really ask myself, but I don't ask myself, I'm arguing in my mind, I'm thinking about it -- they had enough votes to make a marriage, so why did they have to fix the law and do it differently if they wanted the stores to really shut themselves down, that no one was working, that we didn't make any exceptions, that there were no 200 square meters of a single person working in the store?Oh, my God! And with the amendment tabled by the Modern Centre Party, this made it possible for pensioners to work so that students could work. These are not in a regular working relationship. People who are in a regular working relationship can be at home with their families, socializing as many do. Left, respected colleagues of the Left, great advocates of social rights, be principled in this situation, and make it clear to all students that you do not support their work! If you could study without helping yourself to work. And when you raise the clocks – let's pour some clean wine, on the one hand talk about students, and on the other hand you deny them opportunities and opportunities to work on Sundays. With this amendment, you will stop them! Students study Monday through Friday, they can only work on Friday afternoons, Saturdays and Sundays, and today you are making it impossible for them to have this opportunity at all. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u306	Thank you very much. On his own behalf, colleague Rajić, and then colleague Trček.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u307	Thank you very much. I would only add that it seems to me that, in all this effort for freedom of choice and freedom in this society with this law and this amendment, it is not the freedom of someone to decide to shop on Sunday and the freedom of those to work on Sundays, because they are better paid on Sundays and because it suits them better because they have another day off. For this reason, in the event that our amendments are not decided on, I would like to point out that this is an extremely misleading exercise, that this is a diversion of the referendum issue itself, which has made it clear that, in the event of the closing of trade on Sunday, 10 weeks of trade would still be open. And this is true freedom in one society, freedom of decision and freedom of economic initiative. I'm not voting for this amendment of the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u308	Thank you very much. My friend Runk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u309	Thank you. I don't know, I'm a little confused, but I'm even more confused. Apparently, Slovenian liberalism is that you go to a religious ceremony in the morning, and you go to work on Sunday afternoons because you have a low pension because you can't study otherwise because you can't tie the spaghetti. If I imagined liberalism, I imagined that it was the liberals who should ask themselves, wait, the fucking road, why in Austria there is more than twice the added value of an employee, why the service sector is twice as high and the smallest difference is in trade. We should be thinking about how only 15,000 people will be working in stalls in 10 years, and they will be working elsewhere, how the pensioners will have a pension so they won't need it in the stalls — what? - to work on retirement, how students will study. For 20 years I worked with a fellow student, and they came to me: “Oh, I have a good night’s shift, Professor” up and down. These are topics that we should be dealing with, not here running some cheap populism to get me sick. I will support the amendment of the Left. I will support the law. But who brought this SMC nebulosis in here, and I know it, and I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u310	We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 42. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC Group to Article 1 under Article 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u311	As it is said, the following two are amendments to the SMC, which introduce into law very likely anti-constitutional provisions on family members and on opening 10 weeks a year. We're going to vote against both of you in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u312	Thank you very much. A colleague of Mojca Žnidarič on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u313	In the SMC Group, we tabled these amendments so that their family members could work with these owners of smaller stores up to 200 square meters. Because it's illogical that the operator of the activity, so, I don't know, Father, can now work in the store, and his wife and children won't work if it's a family business. For they cannot all be counted as legal agents. And it is not logical that only one person could work in shops of 150 or 200 m2. In addition, we have had cases where we were written from smaller places where trade, a particular case, is owned by a pensioner, also performs TIC on Sundays, i.e. tourist information activities for tourists, and in fact it is not possible for only one owner to do so. In the SMC Group, we will, of course, support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u314	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 42. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC Group to Article 1 under Article 3. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 70. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 70.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted in the second or third reading would make the proposal inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Closing trade on Sundays will lead to more surplus workers, lower wages, layoffs. Therefore, the rush to close trade is now, when looking for every job, a mistake, a populism of the proponents on the one hand and an ideological offensive on the other. Only 5,000 800 shop employees were surveyed and we are interested, and perhaps others should be interested in what the remaining 104 thousand shop employees think. Are they willing to accept a lower payment and that 1 out of every 10 of them will lose his job? Exceptional damage will be done to micro and small traders who make 80% of weekly traffic at the end of the week. If the store is closed on Sundays, their income will be halved. The concern is also that only four countries in Europe have limited trade on Sundays. We wanted to ease the SMC's trade closure action by proposing that trade could be opened at least 10 weeks a year, as in the referendum issue. The amendment also proposes Sunday's work for family members of traders. We have also advocated that students, students and pensioners have the opportunity to still earn something in these difficult situations. Sunday’s paradise will become hell for every ten merchant or merchant who loses their job. Because we raised the minimum wage once, and we want a small trader to have some of his work. Today, it appears that the majority, each for their own reasons, will shoot the Slovenian economy in the knee, not in one, in both knees. In the SMC, we will remain the voice of those who want to work on Sundays and the voice of freedom of choice and the voice of those who want to shop. Sin is not work on Sundays, it is a sin if this work is not paid justly. That's what the doctor and the vicar, the merchant and the policeman will tell you. We will not support this law in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u316	Thank you very much. My colleague Marko Bandelli, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u317	Thank you, Chairman. You know, I've been a tech dealer for 30 years, and I probably understand how important it is to be home on Sundays. Many workers of this privilege, I must say, could not have benefited. I think it's very important that this Sunday's rest is also given to those who work in other stores, this rest. And I think it's fair. On the other hand, I think it is extremely fair that we leave an opportunity, an optional possibility for small stores to decide whether or not to open up. And I also think it's a good option that students or pensioners in these stores can work. We were presented with an amendment sent by the Chamber of Commerce. I was still kind of in favor of this amendment myself, but I saw that amendment was malicious. It was intended solely for the constitutional mine action of the law. That was the purpose of this amendment. And when I saw the intention, pitiful, if I said so, of this amendment to this law, we too have decided to vote against the amendment, and they will abstain. I hope that this law, as it is prepared – I am sure – will not be in conflict constitutionally, and we will be happy to confirm it in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Nova Slovenija Group will vote in favour of the new Trade Act, which closes trade on Sundays, with the exception of rare exceptions. In some ways, even though we do not support the Left, in no way can we congratulate Levi for having detected the correctness of the decree of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which closed trade at the time of the epidemic. Last but not least, it's our story that's been slowly getting it for years. However, we regret that there has not been a social dialogue and an agreement between employers and workers. Maybe there'll be another time for that in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u321	Thank you. Like I said. I would like to thank you for the constructive debate and participation in the drafting of this law, which we have coordinated for practically three to four months. So I promise that in a few minutes we will finally be able to give the employees a free Sunday, which they have been promised since the 2003 referendum, when the Slovenian public has mostly supported closing trade on Sundays, and which employees have been wanting and pursuing for 17 years. If you ask shopkeepers whether they support closing trades, whether it is the owner of the store, say Lidl, or the union, they will answer in over 90% yes, we want to have a week off, even if we know it in pay supplements. Such were all the results made by both the unions and the employers in the last months of our consideration of this law. And a second time. Once again, I stress that this is a fundamental labour right to free time. A man who can only spend one week with his family, friends, children, and so on, in 14 days has a very ruined quality of life. After all the testimony and statistics, these people are more likely to be sick, depressed, burned, and eventually to land more quickly in disability pensions. And that's also why the tradesman's profession has become so uninteresting in us. In companies – we have received leaflets from several companies, Mercator, Lidl and so on – employees also reward with 200 or more euros if they bring some of their acquaintances, friends, family members and so on, because people are so missing and because they are not available. I think that by confirming the law today we will do good for all, both for employees and their working conditions and ultimately for the general situation in the trade sector in us, which is one of the largest. Sunday’s work, however, was a mechanism of completely unnecessary exploitation of people in this sector. In short, I'm glad we're close to finally putting an end to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u323	Today's session, I must say it's quite interesting, and when we drive home, we'll probably all see together that we've done some good today. Although some of us have been characterized as not knowing what, now this law is similar to before – there was no social dialogue, we are not solving things systematically, but we are solving an important issue for a group of people. An important question. It is not important for the Social Democrats who proposes this that it is important what the content of the proposal is. And yes, if we're going to solve this for a lot of merchants who work for pee money on Sundays, at least with their family, we've done a lot for my ideas. We must not forget, however, that in this country, on Sundays, waiters work, police work, soldiers work, and many more people in the industry, nurses who do not have the privilege of being at home on Sundays. Nevertheless, we will be happy to vote in favour of the Social Democrats in order to save one segment of society, in this case traders and traders. And don't let anyone blame me, even if we support Levice here.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Comrade Perič, explain your voice on your own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u325	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to reject all the signs that I'm hearing when someone says the amendments are being tabled, because then it's going to fall on the Constitutional Court. If any amendment is disputed, the Constitutional Court will repeal precisely that amendment or hold it back, and the law will therefore not be significantly different. So these are some of the crowds that don't have a lot of basics or legal sense. However, as far as the law is concerned, I think we have discussed this very much over the last period. I may have expected a little naively that the liberals in our National Assembly are a little bit more than they seem, or as some people like to declare, the reality will soon become clear. However, I think it is particularly a shame that we are doing harm to our economy. We overstepped social dialogue, we overstepped the collective agreement that was in force. Here the National Assembly will show its supremacy over the social partners and I think that this is some kind of bad road map for agreements, whatever, in the future. But what pains me most is that Slovenians and Slovenians will go shopping abroad, just as the Austrians are already doing when they go to Italy. I will not support this law absolutely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u326	Thank you very much. My colleague Monica Gregorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u327	Thank you very much. I cannot support this bill, because it is simply not the right time to close trade on Sundays, since in the context of the economic recession resulting from the covida epidemic, the trade industry suffered an annual decline of around 25%. Of course, I'm talking about the non-food part of trade. That is why more than 10,000 jobs are at risk, so the law simply comes at the wrong time. As has already been said, social dialogue has been completely withdrawn here, the law also denies free economic initiative, it will affect micro and small traders, we must not forget cooperative trade, students will be a very important source of income for survival. Lastly, the proposal called for a referendum, a referendum decision 17 years ago, but the question at the time was that 10 weeks in a trade year could be opened, so that today's law does not follow and I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbich in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u329	Thank you so much for saying that, President. The proposal before us estimates that contrary to Article 66, Article 74 of the Constitution, the labour market in the Republic of Slovenia, calls for greater consumption in the Republic of Slovenia, and also creates conditions for unfair competition in market-service activities. I believe that the National Assembly, as a legislator, must not limit the free economic initiative and determine the days on which owners or employers can carry out their profitable activities. In particular, this should apply to a service activity which is fully left to the supply and demand market. This means that traders and employees together with unions have to make their own decisions, without politics, because their working time is where they have to determine whether they will operate all the days of the week or just one day. Of course, the rule should apply that if income is generated on Sunday, at night or on holiday days, employees are adequately paid more. This proposal makes conditional on the creation of so-called consumer tourism, which we already know decades ago, from which the Republic of Slovenia will have absolutely nothing. Many of these are expected by neighbouring countries. Therefore, I cannot support this proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u330	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 13. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for an act on the notifying of the succession of agreements of former Yugoslavia with the United States of America, which remains in force between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America. The draft act was tabled by the Government. The proposal for an act was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the second reading of the draft act. We are moving on to a decision on the draft act. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the act has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, this is Mandating-Voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. The proposal was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Vask Simoniti, Minister of Culture. Mr. Simonita, I'm asking for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! As you know, the Government appoints four members of the Supervisory Board, one member of the media experts, one member of the economic and financial experts, one member of the legal experts and one member of the IT experts. At its meeting on 26 September 2019, on a proposal from the Government, he appointed three members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency for a period of four years. The term of office of the Supervisory Board began on 11 December 2019 and lasted until 11 December 2023. Since the proposed fourth candidate of the Government, selected from legal experts, had withdrawn the nomination for a member of the Supervisory Board just prior to the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2019, the Government had to repeat the appointment procedure for one member. In order to complete the Supervisory Board, the Government has also published an invitation to tender for the missing fourth member, which was also published in the Official Journal on 18 October 2019. Two candidates applied for it, who also met the conditions. The reasons why the procedure in the Government was not carried out and why the proposal was not sent to the National Assembly, I do not know, the responsible person who conducted this procedure is no longer employed by the Ministry. Therefore, on 3 July 2020, pursuant to Article 13(1) of the Slovenian Press Agency Act concerning Article 14, paragraph 14, the Government issued a public call, i.e. a public call by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to candidates for a representative of the founder in the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency, calling on interested candidates to apply for members of the Supervisory Board. Probably questions will arise why the Government could not continue the old procedure, where two candidates have already been registered. Answer. Simply because the second paragraph of Article 13 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act stipulates: "The government of all the applications received excludes late and incomplete. The Government of the remaining applications shall send a proposal for candidates for members of the Supervisory Board within 15 days of the expiry of the deadline for the application to the National Assembly.« So if I repeat: 15 days after the deadline for application. That didn't happen, so we made that decision. Since it has been six months, we have, of course, issued a new public call at the Ministry of Culture. On 3 August this year, the Commission opened and reviewed applications for a public call, and found that two timely and full applications had arrived at the public call and that both candidates met the conditions for appointing a representative of the founder in the Supervisory Board. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 13 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act, the Government has drawn up a proposal from the timely and complete applications of candidates for a member of the Supervisory Board, which we have sent to the National Assembly for a decision. This is Radovan Cerjak, a legal expert, a graduate lawyer, graduated from the Faculty of Law in 1994, since 1999, has been employed in the law firm Radovan Cerjak as a lawyer. Prior to that, he was as a graduate lawyer employed by the Ministry of the Interior, the Office of the Ombudsman and the Supreme Court in Koper. It shall have a certificate of training for a member of the Supervisory Boards and Management Boards of 17 April 2020. In our belief, Radovan Cerjak will play a good supervisory role in the national press agency, so I propose that you support it in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u332	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The role of the Slovenian Press Agency is one of the central pillars in our media area, with an overall assessment that the Agency's employed journalists meet the standards of highly professional and objective reporting. The Slovenian press agency or STA, as we like to call it, is the media house that covers the most consistently among all media and reports on various events at home and also around the world. Several times other Slovenian media collect and publish individual news right after the announcements to the STA, which only adds to the fact that the work of journalists at the STA takes place at a high quality level. Such action is also expected under the Slovenian Press Agency Act from members of management, i.e. also from members of the Agency's Supervisory Board. The fact is that the Agency’s Supervisory Board has been operating for almost a year in a reduced composition – without one member. The former Government has therefore issued a public tender last October and has carried out all the necessary selection procedures for a candidate or candidate for a seat in the STA Supervisory Board. This government, however, did not proceed with the procedure initiated, but did so in a new invitation to tender. Members and members of the Mandate-Electorial Commission have not received any substantive explanations in relation to this at the meeting. Although the minister is explaining today, why did the whole procedure have to be repeated? Has the government stopped the previous procedure? Has she informed the candidates who have applied? In the government material that we received, the previous procedure is not mentioned at all – as if you had not happened at all. Such conduct by the Government is obviously a disguise of facts and a deception of our National Assembly, which is said to be unworthy. We can say that the government procedure has been carried out inadvertently and unprofessionally, contrary to what the employees of the STA are committed to. This is why it is not surprising, but it is certainly sad that the Government has proposed the candidate Radovan Cerjak as a member of the STA Supervisory Board. According to our assessment, the candidate is absolutely unfit to perform this function, since he has repeatedly warned himself in the past in an inadequate manner and a low level of public expression. Specific cases of inappropriate public communication by the candidate were highlighted at the meeting of the Commission of the Mandate-Electorate. With the appointment to the Supervisory Board, the candidate will also be in a strong conflict of interest, since as a loyal supporter of the Nova24 media, he will certainly not act on the principles of professional, objective and apolitical decision-making, which is in the public interest. On the contrary. It is clear that the Government has not proposed that candidate to the Agency's supervisory board in order to act in this way in the public interest, which would be considered by the vast majority of ordinary people as the disadvantage and absolute inadequacy of the candidate for the role of the STA supervisor. But this government and, above all, the largest ruling party consider this appropriate. Therefore, there is an appeal to the remaining three coalition partners to reconsider whether they really want to appoint such a person to such an important place. The Social Democrats of the proposed candidate will absolutely not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u335	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! As we have heard in the previous position, the candidate for a member of the STA Supervisory Board must perform its function professionally, objectively and apolitically. How Radovan Cerjak will do it, he said with his response to this tweet. In the event of an accident with drowned boys at Novi Gorica, Borut Jakopin, a public official, wrote on his Twitter account: “Slovenian centres for social work are the beds of feminists, unscrupulous frustrated women and female beta boys.” Radovan Cerjak stepped into this man's defense and wrote a status in which he said: that he does not understand the pompousness of this record because, I quote, “recording 99% is substantively accurate.” He added that he met social workers several times in his work and that, I quote, "his assessment of them is exactly the same". The dismay of a large part of the public over such a type of public discourse has been described as a revelation, “how the Slovenian media landscape is orchestrated”, again a quote. In short, the fact that the Slovenian public rejects such vulgarism in public discourse is a civil offense for him is the silence of those who think otherwise. Operation in public discourse with expressions such as feminist, unfrustrated, frustrated women and femininated beta boys is the basis of freedom of speech for him. He didn't just prove it in this tweet, it proves it in his work all the time. In fact, man is the first New24 lawyer in court to consistently defend all kinds of vulgarism that appear on this medium. In short, it's not just a single slip. Defending vulgarism is his vocation. The way he's going to act as the STA's supervisor, we can conclude. This man is in the interest of the media, by which all Slovenian media collect their news, enter this type of discourse, this type of vulgarity, this type of primitiveism, the type of evasive truth and the shameless lying he represents when defending his main client. We will probably hear in further discussions that this position, which I am now defending, is the position of an impatient leftist against a conservative. But look, this man is not a conservative. What a conservative is supposed to do, we've known for 200 years or more. It is intended to be characterized by statehood, respect for institutions, the search for a broad consensus in the public. Radovan Cerjak is exactly the opposite. He's a desant to all these values. Radovan Cerjak is just another name, just another face of primitiveism, vulgarity and hate speech that has spread across our public space. And if we allow such people to take over Slovenian media, the Slovenian Press Agency, RTV, we will soon find ourselves in some parallel universe, where the public will no longer be able to access credible information, where it will be considered that the best news that burns most regardless of how vulgar and hostile it is, and where, like in neighbouring Hungary, it will no longer be possible to separate between lies and the truth. No wonder London has been rumored to be the second largest Hungarian city, filled with Hungarian intellectuals, highly educated people who have retreated from that country because easy living in an environment where you are surrounded by such a verbal well can no longer stand. I hope that this will not happen to us, so of course we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u336	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u337	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! If we are talking today about the proposal to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency, it is likely that the STA is not just one agency. THE STA has an important social mission, which is to carry out a public service — a public service of continuous, comprehensive, accurate and — pay attention! – objectively providing information on events in the Republic of Slovenia and the world. National television or its information programmes are sometimes characterized by bias and preference for certain political parties. On the other hand, such perceptions have never been received, at least we have not heard of them. And that's right. The pursuit of independent, impartial and professional journalistic information The STA Act sets very high standards, the highest standards for accuracy, objectivity and credibility of the information transmitted. These standards apply both to leadership and to journalists. That this is true, it also shows that according to THE U.S.A., there are many other media. I'd like to say that sometimes everyone does. For all the reasons stated by the STA Act, it is not possible for a member of the Supervisory Board to be a member of a political function either at national or local level, nor for persons who are contractually cooperating with other undertakings providing the same or similar services as the STA, which may result in a conflict of interest. In every government, well, in every normal government, it should be in the interest of the most important control functions of the media, which is legally ordered objectivity, to place such persons, in whom there is no doubt about their impartiality, without regard to the existence of a conflict of interest. Contrary to all the above, the government of Janez Janša as the supervisor of this media house, which carries out its mission in the public interest, emphasises, appoints a person who does not meet both the law and the law, as it seems, let's say ethical conditions for the city's occupation. His ideological and political beliefs are so strong and so clearly expressed that serious doubts have been raised, for the first time, about his impartiality, and for the second time, also about the conflict of interests. The link between the future STA supervisor and Novo24, the media which is ownershipally linked to the SDS, is in the sky absorbing and probably based on a contractual basis, and this, I explained earlier, is prohibited by law. In spite of all this, there is also a complete lack of transparency in the selection procedure for a member of the Supervisory Board, which has already been initiated by the previous Government, and we have not yet received Members of the reply as to how and on what legal basis that process has been completed and a new one started. It is only clear that the new government has initiated this procedure to assign the post of overseer to one of its political supporters. In the SAB, we believe in freedom of speech, but we believe that the candidate whose ideology and positions predominate the elements of intolerance to all other thinkers, the lack of confidence in all other media that are not in the hands of right-wing politics, as well as intolerance to minorities, social workers, same-sex and so on, is inappropriate and contrary to the intent of the STA Act. WHAT does not belong to the left, not to the right, not to yours, not to ours, but to the public, to our citizens and to our citizens. There is no room for ideological and political beliefs in the U.S.A., at least until now. All of this clearly reflects one of the fundamental principles of the law, I repeat, the principle of independence and impartiality. The role of the STA, as mentioned by the law, is particularly important in the world of so-called fake news and should also be strengthened in this regard. Because of all that has been said in the SAB Group, we will not vote for Radovan Cerjak but against him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Colleague Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u339	Nicely greeted! In accordance with Articles 11 and 12 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act, the Supervisory Board shall be a supervisory body composed of five members or members. On a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly appoints four members of the Supervisory Board. The National Assembly is in session 26. 9. 2019 appointed three members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency for a period of four years at the request of the then government under the leadership of Marjan Sarca. The term of office of the Supervisory Board began to run from the date of the establishment of the Supervisory Board, i.e. 11. 12. 2019, and lasts until 11. 12. 2023. Since the proposed fourth Prime Minister, Ms Marinka Šlibar Venda, was elected as a legal expert and was a member of the STA Supervisory Board during the period 2015-2019, just before the meeting of the State Assembly's Committee of Commissioners, the Government had to re-run the appointment procedure for one member. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Ten. In 2019, an invitation was issued for the appointment of a missing fourth member for the area of law to which two candidates, Barbara Piano and Lilliana Kodric applied. Both met the conditions, but the previous government never sent a proposal for candidates or candidates to the National Assembly. The procedure was led by Mrs Tamara Vont, then Director of the Media Directorate at the Ministry of Culture. Barbara Piano was a month later, and last November, she was named President of the Council of the Oncology Institute and resigned from this town at the beginning of this month. Mrs Liljana Kodric was employed in a real estate management service at the Ministry of Interior years ago and testified in the criminal procedure for the rental of premises for the NPU at Dimičeva by Igor Juri Pogačar, Director of Ram Invest, that the procedure for the selection of the building at the NPU was optimal and that the procedures were carried out in accordance with the law. As a result, Minister Kresalovo received the interpretation which she had survived, but later had to resign after the Court of Auditors had been negatively defined and the Commission gave a principled opinion to prevent corruption, as it also identified elements of corruption in the rental of premises for the NPU because of its personal science with Mr Pogacar. Let me remind you, Pogačar, who ended up in personal bankruptcy, was sentenced to 12 million euros in debt this August and was convicted by Secretary of State Damjan Lah. The opposition questioned the Secretary of State and asked why the procedure had not been completed during the previous government. This should be asked by the then President of the Government of Mr Marjan Sarc or Minister Poznik or Director of the Directorate Tamaro Vont. You can also ask them why, if the choice was made, the National Assembly was not informed. You can also ask them why they were unable to carry out the procedure within six months. Article 13 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act states: "The government of all applications received excludes late and incomplete. The Government of the remaining applications shall send a proposal for candidates for members of the Supervisory Board within 15 days of the expiry of the deadline for the application to the National Assembly.« In view of the fact that the previous Government did not send such a proposal to the National Assembly within the time limit laid down in the law, the current Government has carried out a full procedure. 3. Seven. 2020 was a public call calling on interested parties to run for office as a member of the Supervisory Board appointed by the National Assembly. The deadline for applying for a public invitation was 15 days from the publication and expired 20. Seven. 2020. The Commission for the review of applications received at the published call shall be 3. 8. 2020 reviewed the applications and concluded that two timely and full applications had arrived at the public call and that both candidates met the conditions for the appointment of a representative of the founder in the Supervisory Board. She elected the candidate Radovan Cerjak and forwarded the proposal to the National Assembly. In the SDS Group, we will support the Government's proposal that Radovan Cerjak become a member of the STA Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u340	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by colleague Andrei Zabret.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u341	Thank you for your word, President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! For starters, I have to go through a series of events briefly. At the April session of the National Assembly, almost immediately after the change of government or as soon as possible, you submitted RTV to yourself. You have divided the coalition's parties in the programming world, even though it should be attended by representatives of all audiences and viewers, not by your political, interesting and different electorate. The message is clear — that you do not understand that RTV is a public institution, not a party or government, as you seem to understand. At that time, we wondered how far away it was when the coalition tried to replace the director of RTV with the same zeal for other human resources. We wondered whether there would be sufficient retraining or whether the Slovenian Press Agency would follow. And by means of legal changes, when you go to the Media Act, let’s all in spirit tailor the media landscape to be more like the media SDS, so that the whole beat of the first in the service of truth or in the service of the right hand. Our fears were justified. We have not forgotten the work of the Prime Minister's first government, and today we have again here, less than half a year in need of you to do what we were afraid of, on purpose, I repeat. How predictable – new media legislation. The clear objective of the SDS, given how all three laws are written, is to take over the media. This would, you can imagine, silence the criticisms of your work, silence doubts, concerns, take control of information and its interpretation. Even before the possible adoption of the new media law package, this coalition exerts tremendous pressure on the functioning of the STA. For a new member of the Agency's Supervisory Board, the government has proposed a member of the SDS. He's proposing to SDS lawyer Radovan Cerjak. I repeat, a member of the SDS who in his public appearance supports the party's impatient discourse. A person who does not belong to the SDS party to media houses manifests orchestrated action in the interest of the former regime, which publicly expresses intolerance to the rights of minorities, same-sex and social workers. A person who agrees 99% with an official at the Ministry of the Interior who considers CSD to be “legly feminist. ” [[…]] Well, I'm not going to read this tweet anymore, and we all know him. The STA plays a very important role in the media field, its journalists comply with objective reporting standards and is therefore expected to meet high professional and ethical standards from the members of the STA Supervisory Board. If all members were independent and not ideologically oriented, it is at least what we would expect. The proposed candidate, however, does not meet all the legal criteria for appointment, let alone ethical. In particular, the condition of at least 10 years of work experience or five years of management experience in areas that provide adequate knowledge and experience for the performance of the STA’s supervisory function has not been met. What is even more problematic is that Radovan Cerjak does not meet professional or ethical criteria, does not meet the criteria of professionalism and impartiality. Given the direct linkage with the SDS party and the contractual relationship with Novo24, whose co-owners are also prominent members of the SDS, there is also a conflict of interest. And such a man will land in the supervisory board of the STA. This leads to the total decomposition of all standards. If we allow the communication and expression of Radovan Cerjak to become the communication of the STA, then we have gone deep. I therefore ask once again the Members and Members of the remaining coalition parties. Does everything I've listed bother you? Do you ever think about what the media is doing to SDS? I don't understand how you can let all this happen. But ultimately, it's also the fault of those who look away or remain silent. We will therefore vote against the proposed candidate in the Marjan Šarc Letter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u342	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for appointment. The first one has the word mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u343	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. The Slovenian press agency is a respected press agency, it is respected, known to be professional, to be non-political, to be independent. And that is why it is very important that members are appointed to the Supervisory Board, which strengthens the reputation and respect of this agency and the journalistic profession. Candidate Cerjak does not meet these conditions, the basic conditions and these values which the Slovenian Press Agency specialises. Moreover, he is known for his hate speech, for his impatience, he is known for not hiding his clientele and being a party member. It has flawed professional and ethical values. These are the reasons why he's in the SAB and I won't personally and I can't support him. I would like to refer to candidates who meet the highest values and standards of our society for such a distinguished and important function. The candidate proposed by the Government, of course, is not sufficient for these conditions. Once again, I will not support the candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u344	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u345	Good evening! Mr President, thank you for the floor. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister and his advisor! What we are actually doing here today is already a visible attempt to change the media landscape. That's what you do. Why? To take over and control the media, which is, of course, the easiest way to silence the criticisms of work and take control of information, and most importantly, their interpretation. That's actually expected, that's what this is all about. Not to say, good morning, Hungary! But this is carefully planned. It is certain that this so-called gentleman is inappropriate for this function. I won't repeat his tweets because I'd be too ashamed. The public discourse that he pursues is vulgar. He is demonstrating his impatient and hostile attitude with chauvinism, sexism, and, as it were, the gentleman is simply inappropriate. It's that simple, actually. And that's what I'm saying to all the other coalition partners. He's inappropriate. God help. That neither the basic conditions laid down in Article 12 of the STA Law are met nor will I speak. If memory does not deceive me, for every function a person must fulfill certain conditions, even a cleaning woman must have a primary school completed. Except, apparently, for SDS, that's not true. There is only one condition — that it is ours, that it is kima and that it follows ideology. That's the only condition. Whether it's right or wrong – I think it's completely wrong. That is why this gentleman is completely inappropriate. Simple as beans, my mom would say. And I don't understand what you don't understand here. It's very simple. STA plays a very important role in the media area, and its journalists have always met the standards of objective reporting. If you've ever had experience with colleagues from the U.S.A., I've had quite a few, 12 years from the city council, they've always reported correctly, and I don't see any reason why there's someone in their ranks who doesn't have that in any way. I can't see one single reason. Unless what I said is the reason - good morning, Hungary! Control over interpretation and information, that's actually why we're talking between friends, as we say in Styria. Of course, the hygiene minimum should be that a member of the Supervisory Board is impartial, professional. I mean, that's really the basis. But no, not that either. Why? This is actually what we see in all the media legislation proposals – it is about surveillance. Just for that and nothing else. The fact that SDS represents itself as its prey has been said many times. And once again, it has to be repeated that this is wrong. The media isn't the prey of any political party or at least they're not supposed to be. Not the left and not the right. This should be followed in the 21st century in Slovenia, but unfortunately this is not the case. In the LMŠ we advocate high standards of respect for public dialogue and human dignity, which this so-called gentleman, with his indemnities and insulting statements, does not meet in any way. My value system is not meant to vote in favour of this so-called gentleman, so I will vote against it easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u346	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u347	Thank you for your word, Madam President. If someone isn't fit for a STA supervisor, it's Radovan Cerjak. And I don't know why it's necessary in this government, which is worse, that's better. I appeal to coalition MPs and MPs, who are always talking about how you are for media freedom, how you are some Damage Control and so on, that this time you really think about this man who is a symbol of intolerance, primitiveism, rematching against all different and other thinkers, from the community of LGBT to women, different feminists, attacking all sorts of people. And should such a person be on the board of oversight of an agency that gives us the most reliable information in the country? We have already voted against the committee and we will now. Let me also remind you that the Society of Journalists of Slovenia has asked us not to put this man in such a responsible position, because the Society of Journalists advocates high standards of respect for culture, public dialogue and human dignity, which Cerjak does not fulfil with his insulting and unworthy statements. “In our opinion,” they write, “it is also inappropriate because of its attitudes towards the Slovenian media, which manifests orchestrated action in the interests of the former regime.” In short, one rematchism itself, one self-renovating media space and persecuting everything that is not in the spirit of the doctrine of SDS. It is interesting what the Minister says – that the responsible person who conducted the procedure is no longer employed by the Ministry. Yeah, of course, there was a clean-up. However, Cerjak does not fulfil the condition that the applicant must have at least 10 years of work or five years of managerial experience in the field of providing adequate knowledge and experience to perform the function of the STA supervisor. In short, the gentleman does not meet the professional, formal conditions that we are not talking about ethical criteria. So, yes, I hope that you will not support such a man and that you are, at least in part, for as long as you can preserve him, a free media landscape. I will not go into what was happening in the invitation to tender with the previous two candidates who were not even informed of the results. However, what Mrs Jeraeva said earlier about the applied candidates in the previous invitation to tender would say that it is a violation of the procedure, as they said at the MVK earlier that their names should not be spoken of. That's what we decided on the MVK. And let's, well, spit on the previous candidates and stage here, why you stepped down and why you gave them up is very inappropriate because they're not here and they can't defend themselves. [[…]] “In the interest of Slovenia,” writes the Society of Journalists of Slovenia, “and its media space is that the STA remains a quality and impartial service to the various media regardless of the current authority at any time.” We know that from the U.S.A., all other media are synthesized, and if this is ideologically colored, and especially full of vulgarism and hate speech, then I really don't know what else people will be able to refer to, what journalists will be able to refer to. Therefore, I implore you, do not confirm the lawyer Nove24 and the member of the SDS who was formerly in Novi Slovenije, and he also left because you did not give him permanent contracts for the transactions he would have performed. In short, sir, who is so fond of using Huja and rematched discourse on so-called influential players and media in the former regime, I really don't see what kind of clean-up he's going to be doing in an independent media. Who can talk about the litter of feminists, frustrated women and female beta boys who can measure and use the most vulgar discourse, such a man from the Slovenian Press Agency really far away. Of course, I will vote against his appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u348	Thank you. The word is Aljaž Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u349	Thank you, President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The fact is, it is a first-class shame that such a person appears on any list for any function, and it is unheard of that we will even vote on it. I don't mean to lose words about such individuals at all, and if we forget that they don't even meet all the criteria, that we can vote on them, that they don't even reach the criteria of some expertise and impartiality, that we can vote on them, I wonder how the biggest government party who always claims to have the greatest tradition of having the most members can find among their own species such a candidate. I don't know if the criteria for who writes more stupid tweets are then wins and proposes a function. But if I forget that a person, if I can call him that, from the kind of government party, I wonder where are those liberals who have talked so much before, where are the Democrats, who often declare themselves not only democratic, but even Christian Democrats. Will it now be liberal, will it be democratic, or will it be Christian, that this man will have such an important function as that of which we are voting? Of course I'll vote against it. I'll be very sad to go home today if he gets enough votes, but I won't be surprised.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u351	Thank you very much. We could ask ourselves how deep we can go without, of course, knowing that Cerjak's candidacy is, in fact, extremely thoughtful, that it is part of the strategy, how to master, to transform, transform, media space. And of course, if you want to do this, you must first head or control the STA and public RTV Slovenia. And that's exactly what's going on. We are in the middle of the media war and SDS sends its generals to the front, one of these generals is the candidate Cerjak, a lawyer and member of the SDS, known for his impatient views, often expressed on Nova24TV and elsewhere. Like Janez Janša and other prominent representatives and representatives of the SDS, the candidate announces that the media landscape in Slovenia is orchestrated and aims to establish the so-called normal state. Let's remember. This same Cerjak protected the author of the offending record, a staff member of the interior ministry, that Slovenian centres for social work, I quote, “legitimate feminists, frustrated women and female beta boys”. End of story. This same Cerjak then declares in the same breath: “I will always defend a decent dialogue in public. This one may be sharp and controversial, but it must be dignified. This is the foundation of democracy.” Now, tell me who's playing the fool. What is worthy of dialogue in his manner and what the foundation of democracy, Cerjak always proves with his impatient, vulgar and overstretched discourse, sexism, chauvinism, racism, attacks on minorities, public advocacy of rematchism and so on. Cerak, however, rejects all this evidence of impatience and I believe that you will also reject those who are his colleagues and says: “I will by no means agree to the logic by which every thought that deviates from the thinking of the dominant media is declared impatient. Everyone has the right to express his or her opinion on certain issues." End of story. Really? Is hate speech really the same as freedom of speech? The problem is that Cerjak, of course, is not about expressing an opinion, but literally about beating and discrediting anyone who thinks differently from him. For example, Cerjak about LGBT parenthood, quote: "I remember years ago when he was preparing a referendum on the adoption of children by same-sex couples, he announced the dean of this university and stated that it was in the interests of the children that they had two mothers. Bolano.’ End of story. Above all, his political profile is at stake, his political link with the SDS's largest government party. STA cannot be an agency that is somehow owned by SDS, and this is simply inappropriate. Revansist, a man who understands the media landscape in terms of fighting the spirits of the past, as understood by John Janša, who is still in 2020, at every step is actually persecuting a communist who is delusional about the fact that most Slovenian media are contaminated with so-called forces of continuity, a man who therefore seems to hate speech equal to freedom of speech, which therefore does not differ, which is a sample of the actual botanical garden of hostility, is absolutely not and cannot be suitable for such a function. I hope, Members and Members, that we understand this well, because we have to protect basic democratic standards in this country. So once again, I wonder how deep we can actually go. Of course, I will vote against it, and I urge you to have at least a majority vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u352	Thank you. The word is from Boštjan Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u353	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. That our Slovenian democracy has literally fallen for the last six months is increasingly evident when you come up with proposals like this with Mr Radovan Cerjak today. A man who is famous for this – since you have already told the predecessors everything about his impatience to minorities of LGBT, to minorities in general, about intolerance to women. Here I appeal to all women here in the National Assembly not to support such men who so think about you women. I'm gonna keep going. We actually have one big problem. The Ministry of Culture is also in poor shape, unfortunately, and then such proposals do not serve this country, let alone STA. As has already been said, the STA should, in fact, be and is an autonomous organisation and cannot be and must not be subordinated to anyone, not to any political breakdown of power in this country at all. We all know how it works, Mr President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša – the country, that is me. Maybe now he wants to be STA, that's me. Then I fear that every day we will read to STA only: John Janša was, John Janša said, John Janša was eating; John Janša made. Or not. Well, it's possible. Then you won't have much space left, let alone any Desus, SMC, and NSI. So look, we're actually at a crossroads, I'm going to say what all-Slovenian democracies and I'm going to ask the government to think about itself, as well as the parties that you're in this government coalition to imagine yourself above yourself, and you don't come up with such proposals by people for such and different agencies anymore. Because that is indeed true, I will say, the insult of all citizens and citizens here in Slovenia, let alone the National Assembly. Thank you. This gentleman unfortunately does not enjoy the support of the Left and me, and I hope that he will not receive the support of all of you. Once again, I appeal to you to imagine, ladies, ladies, citizens, women, that you do not allow men to shape your destiny in such a way as to influence you in any way and to underestimate you in any way. Instead of being rewarded, they underestimate you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u354	Thank you very much. The word is Luke the Moon. [[No, no, ……]] I'm also giving the word to a government representative if he wants a word? Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u355	Thank you very much. I'm giving up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u356	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of the third paragraph of Article 13 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act, a decision will be adopted if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. I am voting on a motion for a decision appointing Radovan Cerjak as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency for the remainder of the term of office of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency, which is until 11. 12. 2023. Comrade Marko Koprivc, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u357	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Mr Cerjak is absolutely not a suitable person to meet a city in the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. It's a person who's extremely impatient. Only if we look at his past tweets, his attitude towards minorities, women, same-sex couples and so on — in short, this person is not fit for this position under any criteria. The Society of Journalists of Slovenia also made this clear and loud. However, John Janša and his party insist on this proposal. It's clear what it's all about. The aim is to subordinate the Slovenian Press Agency, also to introduce to this by now an independent journalistic agency methods of work, as already seen on Novi24TV and another Jancist media, and in particular to try to subdue the entire media space to the largest government party SDS. This is absolutely unacceptable and I think you have reached the bottom with this proposal. I hope the coalition partners see this. Have you missed or haven't we fallen deep enough? In short, the proposal is nicely untapped and I hope that it will not receive support in this national assembly. We will, of course, vote against the Social Democrats because we are advocates of media freedom and we believe that the Slovenian Press Agency must remain autonomous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u358	Anyone else? [[Yeah.]] Comrade Robert Pavšič, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u359	If we sit around all day, you can take three more minutes because this is an important issue to be asked. In the List of Marjan Šarc we have presented both substantive and formal reasons why this proposal is not acceptable. And I followed carefully whether you would try to defend him with at least one word in coalition – not one word. Even the minister does not feel worthy to defend his candidate for this most responsible position. And then, what can we conclude after that? That it totally doesn't matter what this man is doing, what this man is writing and what we think, because you're going to run us over anyway. There's something important here. That anyone today will not vote against is in agreement with everything that this man has written or declared. Since now it is no longer just a question of whether he is able to occupy this function, he is certainly not, but also what he represents in this society. And you will agree with that and internalize his policy, his position. This is my original sin — you agree with what he wrote, and you deny the vast number of minorities in this country. In the List of Marjan Šarc we cannot support this in any way and absolutely cannot support it and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u360	Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u361	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! In Levica, of course, we will vote against this candidate because we do not want to live in a country where it is normal for the main media in the country, the Slovenian Press Agency, where other media are compiling their news, to use expressions such as unfrustrated frustrated women, feminists' beds, feminists' women-ridden beta boys, or that such media are controlled by people who say that the writings with such phrases are 99% of the content and that the harassment of the public over such a type of discourse means or, I quote, “how our public space is orchestrated”. We don't want to live in a country where the truth doesn't apply, where the opinion of the one who burns the most vulgarly, where no civil standards apply anymore, and where it can be said what is desired in public. All of this is embodied by this candidate, who not only practices it on social networks where he declares it himself, but also practices it as a professional lawyer, according to New24 as a professional first lawyer, where such excesses are defended from day to day, from week to week, from month to month, on behalf of freedom of speech. Whoever votes in favour of this candidate also denies such management of Slovenian public media, headed by the State. As it is said, in Levica we will not sign this, we do not want to live in such a country and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-29-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u362	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 35. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 35.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Cerknica. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Špela Ocepek to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Cerknica. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision, by which Špel Ocepek is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in Cerknica. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the proposals for election to a judicial function at the courts of district judges and judges at the District Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted proposals for the election of Primož Šrancar, Nina Zadravec, Jerce Cloud, Mark Beovic and Mag. Marjet Brecelj is in judicial office at the courts of district judges and judges at the District Court in Ljubljana. The proposals were addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. First of all, we decide on a proposal for a decision to elect Primož Štrancar as a judge of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We decide on a proposal for a decision to elect Nina Zadravec as a judge of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We decide on a proposal for a decision to elect Jerca Cloud as a judge of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We decide on a proposal for a decision to elect Marko Beovic as a judge of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are also deciding on a proposal for a decision to elect mag as a judge of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. Marjeta Braclej. We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present, 76 votes against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the proposals for election to the judicial function of the District Courts in the District Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted proposals for the election of Dr. Ana Jereb, Dr. Andreya Fakin and Mag. Tina Grum Trošt in judicial capacity at the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. The proposals were addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. First of all, we decide on a proposal for a decision which elects Dr. Ana Jereb as judge of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We decide on a proposal for a decision to elect Dr Andrej Fakin as a judge of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are also deciding on a proposal for a decision to elect mag as a judge of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. Tina Grum Prost. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to the judicial office of the District Judge at the District Court in Novi mesto. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Petr Žnidaršič as Judge of the District Court of Justice in the New Town District Court. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision which elects Peter Žnidaršič as judge of the District Court of Justice in the New Town District Court. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission of Inquiry on the provision of protective equipment and measures by institutions and holders of public functions to combat the spread of COPID-19 disease from 1. 2. 2020 until the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry in question. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 7. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 20th meeting of the National Assembly.
