ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u1	We continue with the adjourned 17th meeting of the choir. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. With regard to this bill, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the President of the Committee, Anja Bah Žibert, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Chairman. The Health Committee is at its seventh session of 12. 5. 2020 as a working mother body has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 48th session of the 23rd. Ten. 2020 decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. No amendments to the draft law were tabled within the time limit. Further explanation was given by State Councillor Marjan Maučec and stressed that the basic objective of the bill is to enforce the legal basis by which health care would be provided to the health-stricken inhabitants of Slovenia. These are cases of diagnosed severely curable diseases when medicines are still available on the market, but extremely expensive and average citizens are not available without adequate financial assistance from the country. The bill would also fully provide for people with rare disease diagnosis when the medicine is not listed on a positive list or is not registered in the Republic of Slovenia by paying for health services in addition to military disabled persons and civilians with disabilities of the war. Funds above the level of compulsory insurance would be provided by the Republic of Slovenia from the budget. The Government's opinion was taken by Health Minister Tomaž Gantar and stressed that the Government does not support the law's proposal, as it estimates that the current health system provides patients with rare diseases with adequate treatment in Slovenia, either for treatment abroad. Such a proposal would also prevent the implementation of the existing law from being implemented due to substantive inconsistencies and poor financial structures. In addition to the substantive comments on the proposal for a law and the presentation of an existing system of health care and insurance, in particular the mandatory health insurance rules, the representative of the Legal and Legal Service pointed out that the proposal for a law should be considered in terms of the planning and intended use of public funds and the sustainability of public finances. The representative of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia said that the institution of the bill does not support it. It also notes that more and more partial solutions have been proposed over the last period by various proposers and initiators addressing individual issues in the compulsory health insurance system. This suggests that a new system law on healthcare and health insurance should be adopted as soon as possible, which will fully regulate this area. In the debate it was pointed out that in Slovenia we have patients facing rare diseases and that the collection of various donations, stoppers and contributions is not an appropriate and acceptable way to solve these problems. Individual cases have led to partial solutions that indicate that we urgently need a new system-wide law on health care and insurance. Following the discussion, the Committee agreed that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u3	I give the floor to Marjan Maucec, the representative of the Council of State as a proposal for a bill to present the position of the mother labour body.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act at its 22nd session. Ten. 2019 at the initiative of the then first-signed Frank Kangler and some other saints. We have also heard more or less in the reports on the Committee, and I will not repeat this because it would be too exciting, but you have probably noticed that the problems encountered in such diseases are not systematically resolved, and this is noted by the Committee, irrespective of the fact that it did not then adopt the solution that is now and is possible, in particular the Constitution of Slovenia, the 51st and 50th Articles of the Constitution, where health care and social security are provided, and also in the General Declaration of Human Rights, which provides in Article 3, that every right to life is guaranteed, and in Article 25 below, that every right to such a standard of living is given to him and his family to health. These are key problems that have not been solved. And this law saves them. We are not saying that this is the only saving solution, but certainly that nothing happens, but we are all witnessing these problems, but it is almost irresponsible. Even reports that the nomotechnic law is not properly prepared should be asked why because there is no data. The minister also said at the meeting that there was no record of this. However, it is necessary to know that we have had the legal basis for regulating the register for such diseases for several years, but of course it does not work out, and if it does not work out, then we do not have this data and, as it is said, things are partially resolved, with stoppers, with media pressures, which, thank God, are sometimes successful, sometimes not. Right away, we come to this inequality before the Constitution and before the Declaration of Human Rights, because some parents have some organisational abilities or opportunities to perform in public, but you will probably agree that not all of them are capable of doing so and that not all of them can solve it. And then, of course, they end up the way they end up. They were also obvious that we no longer believe in Slovenian health care, which was never mentioned anywhere in the debate in the State Council, ever. Moreover, from personal experience, I have survived three cancer diagnosiss, my prostate has been taken away, my kidney has been taken from me, and I have had it on my lungs, but it's staggered somewhere, I've gone to my expense for another opinion around the world, including Russia, even to America, and I have to say that all opinions were identical as they were in Slovenia, even more so, I can say that they were more advanced. So there are no concerns that Slovenian health, especially quality and expertise, is the problem here that legislation does not allow. Our proposal for a solution is simple to add that not only for war disabled and civilians associated with war, this article allows the health system to be able to regulate it legally. However, the proposal is the same as in both other cases that the director of the institution proposes to the Council of the Institute, it is said to the profession that in such a case, when the medicine is available, but is not yet on the list in Slovenia, it is not registered to save life. This was the only goal and I would ask the esteemed assembly to think about it and to give support to this law, because I think that we will save quite a few lives, and I think that is the goal of all of us who walk in these places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Tini Bregant, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you very much. As far as this proposal for a new law is concerned, I may first tell you what the current regime on this treatment is abroad and what the health system is capable of doing today. The patient can already go abroad, based on three things. One is the so-called national regime, this is the 44th Article of the CFSP, and this gives individuals the opportunity to go abroad in view of its diagnosis in Slovenia. In these cases, it is also subject to reimbursement of the costs of the actual costs of these services in the country in which the services were established. The second mechanism is based on the Regulation on the coordination of social security systems, which allows individuals to apply health services in the EU, EEA and Switzerland. In doing so, they can pass on the basis of unacceptable waiting periods for each service, i.e. if we cannot do so in Slovenia. Under this Regulation, an individual is entitled to reimbursement of costs at the cost of actual costs, but not more than those costs for these services in the public health network in the country where these services were in force. The third way in which you can be treated abroad, the first two have provided a practical immediate financial refund, while the third is a directive on cross-border healthcare, which in fact requires you to bet and then get the refund money later, which is applicable only within the EU Member States. When crossing the Directive, it is worth mentioning that certain services require prior authorisation, that is to say whether they are medical treatment abroad, health services requiring the use of expensive infrastructure or medical equipment. In addition to the above options for treatment abroad, Slovenia also allows the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, on the basis of the provisions of the third paragraph of Article 20 of the Medicinal Products and Medical Devices Act, in exceptional cases, which includes, of course, the request of the treating doctor and the opinion of the responsible person of the clinic or institute, to allow for the marketing of a medicinal product which is not authorised in Slovenia or in the EU. So we think that what I have just said is that the current system allows patients with rare diseases to be diagnosed, either in Slovenia or when they go abroad, in fact, they can receive appropriate therapy. Because of that proposal, we do not support the law, but I also think that it is not sufficiently prepared and in practice its implementation would be very difficult. For this reason, we do not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is from the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of Monika Gregorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Honorable Representative of the Council of State and Government! The proposed amendments to one of the most important health laws that are before us today address the issue of rare diseases. This issue was the last issue to receive the most attention in Slovenia after the public was informed of the case of the boy Kris. Remember, that's when the whole of Slovenia collected and raised the necessary funds for his treatment in the United States. We have witnessed an incredible organization and also a media campaign. In the end, I believe we were all happy that the necessary funds were gathered. Of course, such fund-raising actions raise questions as to whether such gathering is really necessary, or whether the existing system does not allow these patients to receive adequate care. At the time of the consideration of the proposed legislative changes on the Committee, we were further informed of the opinion of the Government and the Health Insurance Office, which do not support the proposed law. While aware that the current system regime is probably not ideal, it should be stressed that patients in existing legislation have every opportunity to receive personal care. Therefore, we do not support the proposed law in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Nevertheless, unfortunately, we are witnessing an increasing number of charitable actions that collect funds for treatment and rehabilitation. In response, the National Council proposed this solution in order to legally determine the State’s financial assistance in cases where the purchase of the medicinal product requires high financial resources which individuals normally cannot afford. On the Committee on Health, we have already dealt with rare diseases in this mandate. At that time, the members of the Committee unanimously agreed that the Government and the Ministry of Health should establish within 18 months the smooth functioning of the National Register for Rare Diseases. The deadline that we have imposed on the Government is thus due to expire in a bad year. Even though all government activities are currently focused on the fight against the new coronavirus, we expect the decision to be implemented in a timely manner. Finally, it is necessary to stress that the Health and Health Insurance Act clearly needs a thorough overhaul, as we have already warned in the SMC. Therefore, at this point, the Minister is invited to take the proposal for a law already drafted by the predecessors as soon as possible and to bring it into line with all stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u9	The word is given by the Left Parliamentary Group, colleague Željko Cigler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We say good-bye to the draft law, which has been incomplete and unprofessionally prepared, and unfortunately unclear. He tried to regulate the area of rare diseases, but in fact the disease that shakes Slovenian health care is not rare at all, since we know it everywhere. This is the privatisation and liberalisation of health care. This is outsourcing non-health and partly health services. This is the award of concessions without a serious plan and the creation of an internal health market. This is a record low-budget funding and dependence of health care in Slovenia mainly on contributions. This problem will have to be solved as soon as possible. This is an unfair supplementary health insurance which, even at the time of the crisis, puts all the burden on patients. This is neglecting planning in the field of health education. This is the underpayment of healthcare personnel, especially health care personnel. And finally, this is the afternoon's work of doctors and espionage. These are diseases of Slovenian health care. They're not rare, but if we don't act, they'll be fatal. And if we do not solve these things, our future confrontation with pandemics or epidemics in this country will be significantly less successful than we have managed to resolve today, when we still have strong and quality public health. We do not support the proposed law in Levica on the basis of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Dear, distinguished Secretary of State and motioner! The proposed law submitted by the Council of State in its consideration would add a new exception to Article 24 of the existing law. The payment of health services, in addition to military disabled persons and civilian disabled persons, would also fully provide for people with exceptional disease diagnosis when the medicinal product is not listed on the positive list or registered in the Republic of Slovenia. The means above the level of compulsory insurance would be provided under the proposed law from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but provided that the Assembly of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, on a proposal from the Director of the ZZS, would take the appropriate decision for this purpose. In Nova Slovenija, we note that the draft law does not set any criteria to be applied by the Assembly of the Institute in its decisions, allowing for a completely discretionary and self-sufficient decision as to who would receive the medicine or who would not receive the medicine or who would not. Many of the diseases that have been incurable for some time now have become cured by the new discovery of new drugs. There are more and more examples of cases where for patients with severe diseases, funds are collected through various actions, in which both Slovenian and the general public are involved with donations and other gestures. Of course, this is also closely linked to the fact that more and more of the recent untreated diseases with newly discovered drugs have become cured. And that's right. This is our goal in the future. In order to ensure respect for fundamental constitutional principles and human rights, this is the right to social security and the right to health care, however, it is necessary to lay down the country's financial assistance in such health-related situations where it is necessary to obtain a medicinal product for the treatment of human beings that people normally cannot afford, but it is up to the patient to receive or not, depending on his life. In New Slovenia, we stress the need to modernise the health system. The covid-19 epidemic has also shown that there is a need for changes in the financing, management and delivery of health services. The arrangements for long-term care have also proved necessary and necessary in particular during this time. In New Slovenia, we firmly believe that the financing of the health system must be based on solidarity, justice and reciprocity. However, since these solutions are not in the proposed law and are not well prepared, we will not support the law in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u13	The text is by the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, a colleague of Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Good-bye, everybody! We'll look like we've been sitting in these halls all day and night. Rare diseases, we all know, chronic diseases that are problematic because they are rare. There are not enough resources invested for research because the calculation does not work out, as well as the prices of medicines found for these rare diseases may interfere with astronomical heights, causing a host of problems in the treatment of these diseases, including high insurance companies. The proposed law before us seeks to solve this problem in Article 24 of the existing law and to ensure payment of medicines for these rare diseases from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which should be decided by the assembly of the institution. So someone else will decide on the use of our budget, on a proposal from the Director of the Health Insurance Institute. We understand the proponent's urge to find a solution for these children, for these people with rare diseases, and this instills empathy in us, thank God, we have a very strong Slovenian development, and there are a number of psychopaths among us who just can't do this empathy. But when it happened in the case of Chris, we could step back together and raise money, in a different way. Despite these noble purposes, when this item has a law, we must draw attention to some facts and some shortcomings. First of all, we need to say that the existing law allows when treatment systems are exhausted in the national system, to reach this treatment through the procedure through medical doctrine. It also makes it possible to access certain medicines under Directive 2011/24/EU. The question is also raised if we approve a case and if we pay from this budget for a drug that is not registered, which is not recognised as safe and so on, which has not yet gone through all procedures, including compensation liability. Finally, the proposal of the law also departs from other cases of decision-making on health insurance rights, since in the procedures for the enforcement of health insurance rights, it is generally up to doctors appointed by the legal committee of the institution. Whether the Assembly, as a non-professional body, will decide to assist it on a proposal from the Director, who is also not in the profession. Well, some things don't go together. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose this law for its humanitarian purposes, but we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, colleague Branko Simonovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act, which has been tabled in the legislative procedure by the Council of State, regulates a partial solution in the system of compulsory health insurance in the field of rare diseases. The proposed exception in Article 24 of the current law, which contains substantive inconsistencies and a further lack of financial design, cannot be accepted. A negative opinion on the proposed amendment of the Law was given by the Ministry of Health, which estimates that the health system already in force provides adequate treatment for patients with diagnosed rare diseases both in Slovenia and abroad, as well as the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. We need to intervene in the health system with due diligence and with appropriate systemic solutions and with the involvement of a wider range of stakeholders. The Desus Group always advocates for older and socially vulnerable groups of individuals. Ensuring equal treatment of insured persons and ensuring adequate solutions in the field of health and pension protection is thus our priority. At the same time, however, we are aware that any intervention in this critical importance of the system, which is like, should not exacerbate the existing rights and sustainability of public finances. It is too often the case that we begin to appreciate our health only when we are sick or when our loved ones are sick. Health workers and access to adequate health care are then viewed with other eyes. Certainly, the collection of donations and contributions, which we also witness in Slovenia, is not a suitable way in the case of rare and difficult-to-get diseases, when the pressures of individuals are even greater. Therefore, in this area too, systemic solutions will have to be found in the future and we believe that the Ministry of Health will approach this with the highest level of responsibility. The Desus Group will thus conclude that the proposal for a new law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u17	The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party, colleague Jani Ivanuš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u18	Have a good day to all present! The proposer of this law was led by a noble mission. We support the bill in the Slovenian National Party and are very disappointed by the ignorance of some members of the Health Committee. By amending the law, the proposer wanted to provide the necessary medical care for people who had a diagnosis of difficult to treat. These people are subjected to extremely expensive treatment, which is impossible for an average citizen without adequate financial assistance. And this is exactly what the proposer wanted to change, that the payment of all medicines not listed on the positive list would be provided by the Republic of Slovenia from the budget. In our country, we have patients with rare diseases who, alone or through various societies, serve to collect various donations, stoppers, and contributions. Why? Because at the worst of times, the state does not offer them the support they need. We strongly oppose this because it is not the right way. For these patients who are already shaking for their health, the company is also busy collecting money because of inadequate regulation. This kind of problem-solving is unethical. If we look at the latest data, the last such action took place in October 2019. The applicant has already introduced the law into the procedure in the same month, which means that the topic is very topical. This sense of cohabitation should be present today in the field of civilisation and in the field of health. There are areas where it is right for society to respond and help an individual. However, there are areas, especially health, where this topic should not be addressed by the wider population at all. This area must be addressed exclusively by the State through its health system and the principle of solidarity. In the Slovenian National Party, we are in favour of such a healthcare system from which a citizen or, if you wish, the patient has the most. It is important for us and many others whether a particular medicine is listed on a positive list that it is more important to help citizens. There's no room for politics here. The disease is already such a major tragedy that affects the individual and his/her loved ones in the first place, so any concern for the financial pay of treatment is not in place. The patient is thinking about getting better, not imposing a burden on the company to raise funds for treatment. The country is rich enough that the action we have already witnessed cannot happen and that it wants to ensure the financing of the disease. We regret that the law has remained on the parent’s working body, and we are convinced that if decision makers were themselves patients with rare illness, the result voted would be completely different. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u19	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, colleague Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u20	A nice greeting to everyone here in the hall! The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled in the procedure of the National Assembly a proposal to amend the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, on the basis of which payment of health services is also fully ensured for patients with exceptional disease diagnosis when the medicine for the treatment of the disease is not listed on the positive list or is not registered in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, I would like to point out that the existing legislation already provides for the payment of health services to patients with exceptional disease diagnosis who can exercise this right both at home and abroad. Thus, the insured person is already allowed to exercise the right to review, investigate or treat abroad or to reimburse the costs of these services if all treatment options are exhausted in the Republic of Slovenia and if it is justified to expect recovery or improvement of their health status. However, the insured person may apply treatment in another Member State of the European Union, the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation even if he or she has been assigned a waiting period in the waiting list in our country, which exceeds the maximum permissible waiting period. The existing Medicinal Products Act, in its Article 20, provides that, in exceptional cases, on the proposal or request of the treating physician and the opinion of the responsible person, the clinic or institute may temporarily authorise the marketing of a medicinal product which is not authorised in the Republic of Slovenia or the European Union. Therefore, existing legislation already allows transport and access to treatment with a particular medicinal product, of course in exceptional cases both within the European Union and for one of the third countries. Of course, the decision on treatment in these exceptional cases is based, and I repeat, on the previous expert opinion and the decision of the competent doctor of the clinic or institute. In the Slovenian Democratic Group, we believe that such an initiative by the Council of State in the Health and Health Insurance Act and also in the Medicinal Products Act has already been taken up, so there is no need for a proposal to amend the Health and Health Insurance Act in our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u21	The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, a colleague of Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Secretary of State and representatives of the Council of State! Today, with rapid advances in medicine, we have a number of new medicines on the market that can be used to treat various diseases that we previously thought could not be cured. When we talk about medicines that have only just appeared on the market, it should be stressed that the authorisation procedure for medicinal products for the whole of the European Union is also taking place for Slovenia at the European Medicines Agency. This is a demanding procedure, to check the safety, quality and efficacy of the medicinal product, and then to register the medicinal product in each country. Towards the end of last year, Slovenia was united by a charity fundraiser for a young boy born with a rare hereditary disease. In the light of this, the National Council introduced a new law that we now have on the table. The novelty provides for a new exception in Article 24 of the existing Health and Health Insurance Act, which would fully provide for the payment of health services to people with exceptional disease diagnosis when the medicinal product for the treatment of such disease is not included in the positive list or is not registered in Slovenia. This would be decided by the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia on a proposal from the Director. At this point, I would like to point out that in our country we already have mechanisms that allow insured persons the right to be examined, investigated and treated abroad, or to be reimbursed for the costs of these services, if the treatment options are exhausted in Slovenia, and the examination, investigation or treatment abroad is justified to expect recovery or improvement. There are also mechanisms that allow health care providers to use unregistered medicines for patients who are urgently needed to treat a serious disease. We support the purpose of the law in the List of Marjan Šarc, there is no doubt about it, but we are not entirely sure whether the proposal for the law before us is most appropriate. The draft law introduces a new concept of exceptional disease cases which are not defined and could lead to the failure to implement the provisions because of its lack of clarity. We also find it questionable that treatment should be decided by the Assembly of the Health Insurance Institute on a proposal from the Director. We think it's up to the profession to decide. In our view, we cannot impose such a responsibility on the Institute, but we agree that in the future it is necessary to find a solution that will be effective, professional. The right to human health and life is one of the fundamental human rights, and everyone must be given treatment. Human life doesn't have a price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u23	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! Of course, it is generally known that we are Social Democrats for public, accessible solidarity health care for all. It is also known that Slovenia is among the 30 richest countries in the world, we usually fall into the last third of them, with another policy we might be in the middle. We supported this proposal and, in fact, we still support it. If everything was as beautiful as they said in front of me, then they probably wouldn't have collected these stoppers and had these actions, like the last one you mentioned. We have rare diseases, we have on the right-hand side, we say, the sanctity of life, we have a budget, we have a health treasury. One way or another, we will have to put more into the health treasury from the budget. That's easy to understand. This problem of rare diseases has basically two dimensions, one of which is, if you want, our internal Slovenian dimension, where we agree with the purpose of this proposal, and we do not buy any of this excuse type “this is not finished”. The National Assembly is the place where the legislation has arrived, so we are finally well paid. However, the second part of the story is global or at least pan-European. I have already mentioned many times, the previous one, it seems to me that the Dutch Minister of Health is now very much interested in doing so, the EU is least integrated precisely in the field of health, and this is really a matter of what is the upper limit of these medicines for so-called rare diseases. You know, our MEPs could do that, too, instead of being sued abroad. This is some dimension that should also be conceived, beyond that of course, that there will always be some kind of prophylaxis of the economy, which will tell the media that it is rare to develop, that it costs so much, even on this pharmaceutical lobby wants to serve, let us stop blinding ourselves. And these are essentially dimensions that need to be thought out and that really need to be regulated and, as I said in the introduction, let's not buy this excuse. The Council of State has, in this function of the duplexity of our parliamentary system, tabled a proposal, which we also supported on the committee, which we still support, in short, we will vote against stopping this process. But we, with the Social Democrats, are saddened by this kind of eternal pronunciation that separates us from other parties. One party in the opposition breaks down when they're in power, in the coalition they say something completely different, it's called duality, and if there's no room for duality, there's no room in the real policy at all, let alone in the field of health and health, so we'll support it, as I said. Of course, this is also a dimension that needs to be set in motion, if not at global level, even at pan-European level, at EU level, because if this covida story has taught us, it has had to teach us how important public, accessible solidarity health to all. Some countries that are rich in GDP are not developed and are not rich in responsibility for all fellow citizens and fellow citizens. To conclude, I personally think, as well as in social democracy, we share this view that it is a shame that we must collect some of the stoppers in such cases and take such and different actions. Then we have some recent story, some society is set up, someone is convicted of cheating, and so on. It is our duty to arrange this matter properly. Indeed, there have already been some conclusions from the parent working body, and since this proposal is obviously going to fall, we expect as soon as possible, after all, the end of the epidemic is that the Department of Health, the Ministry of Health, responds and then proposes a proposal that will hopefully be much better than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u25	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE SUPPLEMENT OF THE HEALTH LAW IN THE FIELD OF THE STRENGTHENING PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Bojan Režun.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State! The proposed addition to the Health Act by Article 63 solves a problem for which the competent national authorities have not found an appropriate solution for more than 3 years. The National Council submitted a draft law to the legislative procedure at the initiative of Italian Physiotherapy Graduates who completed formal education in Slovenia at a higher education institution with an accredited postgraduate programme of physiotherapists in Italian. During their study, in 2016, legislation was amended, which was also covered by Article 63. The amendment introduced proof of knowledge of the Slovenian language as a condition for access to the professional examination following the study obligations. As a result, those Italian students of physiotherapy after their diploma due to language barriers, ignorance of the Slovenian language, cannot approach the professional examination in Slovenia, not because of the lack of conformity of study programmes, in Italy. However, without a professional examination, they cannot obtain a professional qualification on the basis of which physical therapy services could be provided in Italy, which is also their basic purpose. At the time of addressing this issue, the Council of State found that the graduates themselves were not responsible for an unsettling situation, since they had no impact on the amendment of the legislation. Therefore, the Council of State has proposed that the new 63rd article should allow graduates who have completed studies in a language other than Slovenia to perform an expert examination with the help of an interpreter and the costs of an interpreter shall be borne by the candidate himself. Such a solution shall not affect the decisions of the law governing the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions in the Republic of Slovenia. This means that graduates who would take an expert examination in a foreign language by means of an interpreter prior to employment in Slovenia, if they wanted to, should still be required to provide proof of Slovenian language knowledge, but only after recognition of professional qualifications or entry into the register of healthcare professionals. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u27	The draft law was examined by the Health Committee. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor first to President Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you, President for your word, again. The Health Committee shall meet at its 12th regular session. 5. 2020 as a parent working body was considered by the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Health Act submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 57th meeting, on 21. 2. 2020 decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. No amendments were tabled in the course of business. The additional explanation on behalf of the applicant was presented by Councillor Bojan Režun and stressed that the applicant wishes to allow Italian students who have entered a physiotherapy study programme at the Alma Mater higher education institute to carry out a professional examination with the assistance of an interpreter. Foreign citizens of physiotherapy graduates who have completed studies in a foreign language in Slovenia or who have entered a study programme in Slovenia before or at the time of amendment of the legislation, would pass a professional examination with the help of an interpreter and thus obtain a professional qualification, which will then be submitted for recognition in their home country. The Government's opinion was presented by Health Minister Tomaž Gantar and stressed that the promises made to students when enrolled in the said study programme or at the time of the study, which would obtain professional qualifications, did not have a basis in the current regulation. According to the Government, it is not appropriate for students to bear the consequences of these promises. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the amendments tabled as amendments to the Committee were in line with the opinion of the PSC and followed her comments. In the debate, a single support was expressed by the members and members of the Committee for the proposal for a law and regulation of that area. The Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u29	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Tina Bregant, State Secretary, Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you. I agree with what has already been said, namely that these promises to students when enrolled in this study programme or at the time of the studies given to students by the already mentioned educational institution did not in fact have a basis in the current regulation of the Republic of Slovenia, but we do not think it appropriate that students bear the consequences of these promises and therefore do not object to the proposal. Otherwise, as far as this is concerned, graduates who have completed studies in a language other than Slovenian in the Republic of Slovenia would take an expert examination with the help of an interpreter, covering the costs of the interpreter himself. However, it is necessary to say that they will be able to take a professional examination and, of course, to work, knowledge of the Slovenian language will be required in accordance with the rules. What is the level of language knowledge, however, depends on the complexity of the job, the importance, the frequency of contacts with the patient and the way in which it works. What needs to be pointed out, however, is that we may also begin to discuss a real change in the system of professional examinations and traineeships, but one such broad professional debate should therefore be held. You might even consider including a professional exam and a trainee in your own studies. But I don't think this is today's topic, but I'm sure it'll be worth discussing. As far as we are concerned, we are not opposed to the proposal, but we are pleased that certain amendments have already been taken into account in accordance with the nomotechnic rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u31	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Parliamentary Group, colleague Željko Cigler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We support the proposed amendment to the Health Act in Levica. That's how we think about it. In 2016, the National Assembly adopted amendments to the Health Act. These changes have created a problem when students who have studied in a foreign language in the European Community in the Republic of Slovenia are trying to successfully complete and obtain an appropriate education, and because of the amendment of Article 63 of the Health Act they cannot obtain a professional qualification that would enable them to recognise their acquired education in the country of origin, as they are required to provide proof of the knowledge of the Slovenian language when applying for a professional examination as a condition for obtaining this professional qualification. So students are required to acquire professional qualifications in the Slovenian language, although in the Republic of Slovenia these activities are not going to perform the physiotherapy we are talking about at all. The Italian diplomats thus found themselves in one rather hopeless situation, and at the time of the beginning of this injustice, since 2016, four ministers of health have been replaced, at least two of them ministers, Sam Fakin and Aleš Šabeder, promised a solution, but it did not happen because the ministers changed. In Slovenia, the implementation of a study in a foreign language is possible under the Higher Education Act. Finally, it must be said that all these students are self-paid students of physiotherapy in Slovenia. It should be pointed out that it is a recognition of our country, a recognition of the quality of its health education, because a certain number is wanted or I think that this number is even growing, foreign students are being educated in us. The change of law saves the injustice or nonsense that students currently face in Slovenia, who have also completed physiotherapy studies, but cannot obtain professional qualifications. Therefore, as I said, this problem is the required knowledge of Slovenian language. The novelty allows this professional examination to be carried out with the help of an interpreter and for us the matter is acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u33	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, colleague Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Your Honor! For several years, the agony in the field of education of foreign diplomats who have successfully completed physiotherapy studies in Slovenia has been ongoing. 300 Italian citizens graduated from physiotherapy and cannot carry out their professions and help save lives because the existing legislation requires that they submit a certificate of knowledge of the Slovenian B2 language prior to obtaining professional qualifications. The problem arose in 2017 when, at the proposal of the Ministry of Health, the Health Act, Article 63 of this Act, which states that knowledge of the Slovenian language is a condition for accession to the professional examination. Italian students who have studied physiotherapy in Italian in Slovenia cannot obtain professional qualifications in the Republic of Slovenia and then apply it in their country because they have no intention of currently doing business in Slovenia. The fact that Slovenia unreasonablely requires language knowledge already for access to a professional examination is indeed specific, especially since the level of knowledge of the Slovenian language is required at the time of entry into service or with the beginning of work of foreign citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. The law provides a solution for foreign citizens who have completed their studies in a language other than Slovenia to take an expert exam with the help of an interpreter, while the costs of the interpreter are borne by the graduates themselves. However, if these graduates would then like to have a job in Slovenia, they should still have the knowledge of the Slovenian language at the time of entering the register of a healthcare professional. There is an unequal treatment of students in the Republic of Slovenia who have to obtain professional qualifications in Slovenia in order to apply in the country of origin for recognition of acquired education. In New Slovenia, we stress the importance of achieving and maintaining a high quality of public education in Slovenia and supporting the development of private education, as it provides choices, improvements in the quality of education and greater competitiveness. Slovenia is part of the European Union. Europe is the end of co-operation. Europe is also bringing people together by enabling and increasing the exchange and exchange of young people. There can be no double criteria in Europe. A solidarity, fair, secure, successful and free Europe will also provide young people with new knowledge and knowledge in the future. This is necessary for the safe, free and fair future of young generations. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal to supplement the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u35	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, colleague Branko Simonovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for an Act supplementing the Health Act was proposed by the Council of State with the aim of enabling Italian students who have enrolled in physiotherapy studies at the Alma Mater Europae University Institute to conduct a professional examination with the assistance of an interpreter. It rarely happens that the bill receives unanimous support on the competent parent body, as received by the proposal before us. As we have already heard in the Committee's debates, the latter deals with a situation that should simply not be brought to light. So that they can complete their schooling, for which they have recently paid. The proposed solution thus covers an area for which decisions have been proposed here and there since the amendment of the relevant legislation in 2016. We are pleased that the Ministry of Health, under the auspices of Minister Tomaž Gantar, has made further efforts to move the pressing matter in a direction that will be positive for these students. Physiotherapy study is an extremely important study. In Slovenia, a physiotherapist must also take a traineeship and professional examination after a diploma for full recognition of professional qualifications. Thus, 18 Italian diplomats completed their professional examination in time with an interpreter after their training in Italy. Other graduates are subject to proof of knowledge of Slovenian language due to the amendment of the legislation which states that the approach to a professional examination following the study obligations has not been able to do so. With a solution that will allow them to perform their professional examination by means of an interpreter whose costs will be borne by them, we will allow them to complete their education in an appropriate manner. However, these graduates will still have to have an appropriate level of knowledge from the Slovenian language if they want to carry out their activities in the Republic of Slovenia. Partial solutions, such as those before us, need to be taken with the utmost attention, but in this case the human sense will prevail and by adopting the bill we will solve the complications that have arisen to the detriment of individuals. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Health Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u37	The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party, colleague Jani Ivanúš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm still Ivánusha, Ivanúša is someone else [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u39	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u40	No problem, just enough to warn you. In opening, let me say that we will support the completion of the Health Act in our parliamentary group. It is a matter of adapting the legal arrangements to the problems in the field. The law allows Italian students who have entered a physical therapy programme at the Alma Mater Europae University Institute to conduct a professional examination with the assistance of an interpreter. This will also provide these students with professional qualifications, which they will then be able to submit for recognition in their home country. There is no fear, however, that students who have studied in our foreign language and who would later like to work in our country in this area in order not to know the Slovenian language. In the case of employment, they must demonstrate the knowledge of the Slovenian language when entering the register of health workers and co-workers. This measure is not a threat to a Slovenian patient, as it is considered to communicate exclusively in the Slovenian language. Thus, the knowledge and use of Slovenian language is still required for the exercise of healthcare activities in the Republic of Slovenia. In this area, however, we are critical to the current regime, which has in the past enabled the employment of certain health workers who do not yet know the Slovenian language. For these employees, the Medical Chamber should urgently introduce courses in the Slovenian language. We strongly oppose the fact that patients do not have the opportunity to communicate with healthcare professionals in the Slovenian language. We also condemn the arrogant behavior of some employees who use Latin terms when treating a patient. The relationship between a healthcare professional and a patient must be conducted exclusively in Slovenian and, of course, in view of the situation, it must also be very heartwarming. Not only with healthcare professionals, the problem is also in the management structures of health homes and hospitals. The current problems are, for example, in Slovenska Bistrica, in Velenj, where instructions in the shipping language are exaggerated in waiting rooms. It's a big mess and a shame about Slovenia. Today's amendment to the law will be supported, as this pursues the objective of our country's openness to science. This is a completely different level of the subject. This measure is only a fraction of the mosaic that the Republic of Slovenia becomes an attractive destination for higher education and for the educational, research and professional work of foreign students and experts. After all the statistics compared to the other Member States of the European Union, we are currently lagging behind the percentage of foreign students. For science, there must be no limit because science has driven development. Internationalisation of studies, however, must be the goal of any policy option. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The positions of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities will be presented by Felice Žiž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u42	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Egregio Vice Presidente della Camera di Stato, Grazie per la password. Egregi deputies! Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! In the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, we support the content of the proposed Act supplementing the Health Act in order to enable Italian students enrolled in a physiotherapy programme at the Alma Mater Europae Institute of Higher Education to perform a professional examination with the assistance of an interpreter after the completion of a study programme in a foreign language. This will end the Calvary of 300 students who will finally be able to obtain a professional qualification and submit it for recognition to Italy. When they entered the study programme mentioned above, the law did not yet apply that knowledge of the Slovenian language was also among the conditions for access to the examination. This amendment of the law took place three years ago, which interrupted the education of students, resulting in the destruction of life, health, family and their financial stability to many. This amendment, which has affected their situation, violates the principle of equality and the constitutional principle of trust in law, at the same time constitutes a breach of retroactivity and prevents a transitional period. In doing so, I would like to say that since September 2018 I have helped to find solutions but have failed. Therefore, on behalf of our Group of Members and personally thank the Council of State and Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar for the work he has done. It is important that the proposal for a new law fully follows the OECD principles and European Union legislation in the field of regulated professions and thus allows foreign students enrolled in a foreign language study programme in Slovenian higher education institutions to take a professional examination with the assistance of an interpreter. If anyone among them wants to work with us, he will certainly need to know Slovenian. In the hope that the bill will be adopted today, we wish these students much happiness and success in carrying out the professional examination and in obtaining professional qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Nada Brinovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, chairman. In 2016, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an amendment to the Health Act, which brought the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia on the recognition of professional qualifications in that part relating to training for healthcare professionals subject to the automatic recognition of professional qualifications, language skills and the occasional provision of health services. According to this change, a healthcare professional or healthcare professional who works in direct contact with a patient uses Slovenian language. The level of knowledge of the Slovenian language shall be determined by the public health institution or other legal or natural person, where the health worker is employed. However, this change in 2016 was flawed. The problem of existing legislation arises when students who have studied in a foreign language within the European Union have successfully completed and obtained appropriate education, and cannot obtain professional qualifications which would enable them to recognise the intended education in the country of origin, as they are required to provide proof of Slovenian language knowledge when applying for a professional examination in Slovenia as a condition for obtaining professional qualifications. At the initiative of foreign students, the Council of State has therefore tabled a proposal to amend the Law on Health Activities in order to ensure that foreign students who have studied in Slovenia and who are unable to carry out a professional examination in their country are not able to carry out an expert examination, since the other EU members, except Croatia and Slovenia, are no longer familiar with the exercise of their traineeships and the professional examination after the diploma they have obtained, are able to carry out an expert examination with the assistance of an interpreter. I would like to point out that the fear that these students who have studied in a foreign language and who would later be employed in Slovenia are not subject to the compulsory knowledge of the Slovenian language is that this fear is completely superfluous. Why? Since existing legislation already provides that employment is required to be entered in the register of health workers and co-workers. However, the condition for entry into this register has confirmed the successful knowledge of the Slovenian language. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal to amend the Health Act because we believe that this change eliminates the inequality of treatment of foreign students who have studied in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Vice President. All my colleagues, my colleagues, good-bye! A group of Italian students who completed formal education in the Republic of Slovenia at a higher education institution with an accredited postgraduate programme of physiotherapists in the Italian language really found themselves in a difficult situation some time ago. In 2016, during their studies, the legislation governing the conduct of the professional examination in the Republic of Slovenia changed and thus the approach to the examination was corrected by the study obligations by proof of the knowledge of the Slovenian language. For a group of Italian students, this in practice now means that due to insufficient knowledge of the Slovenian language they cannot join the professional examination. In doing so, it is certainly necessary to understand that the professional examination allows for professional qualifications that can then be used to provide physical therapy services. These students do not want to carry out their activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The students were convinced that they would be able to perform their professional examination without the necessary knowledge of the Slovenian language with the help of the interpreter. Due to the change in legislation between, that is to say, three years ago, unfortunately this is no longer possible for them. With the amendment to the law that we are considering today, we will allow these students to carry out an expert examination with the help of an interpreter. In doing so, I must point out that this will not mean that these students will be able to carry out their activities in Slovenia. The same regime or criteria still apply to the conduct of activities in our country, which is sufficient knowledge of the Slovenian language. However, the novel brings some intermediate path, that is to say a compromise with which we will allow these students to be able to carry out the activity for which they were educated in Slovenia in a foreign language in their country. We regularly monitored this issue of these Italian students in the List of Marjan Šarc, with their representatives, and several times during the meeting. We are pleased to be able to resolve this issue today. Rather, it is a problem that arose during their studies, and the consequences are borne by the students who enrolled in good faith to get their profession. For this reason, we will support the law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Honourable Secretary of State, proposer, colleague and colleague! In the introduction, let me say that the Social Democrats will unanimously support the proposal for the amendment to the Health Act, which was put into the procedure of the Council of State. The proposed novel of the Health Act solves the multi-annual problem of unequal treatment of students who have studied with us and come from abroad. The main objective of the novel is to enable foreign graduates who have studied in Slovenia to conduct a professional examination in Slovenia with the help of an interpreter, since without a professional examination, graduates cannot obtain a professional qualification on the basis of which physical therapy services could be provided in Italy, which is also their basic purpose. There is no fear of being educated in the Slovenian language and entering the labour market in Slovenia because, according to the applicant and our legislation, there is a demand for knowledge of Slovenian language in order to carry out health activities in Slovenia. The solutions proposed in the marriage novel are written in such a way as to add a new 63.a. which eliminates these imbalances. The solution is comprehensively regulated by the area and does not have financial implications, and the main thing is to balance the position of students who have to obtain professional qualifications in Slovenia and those who have acquired them abroad and apply for recognition in Slovenia. The solutions concern only a narrow circle of graduates, namely students of the physiotherapy programme who did not carry out their duties in the Slovenian language and entered this programme no later than in the 2017/2018 study year. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the proposed solutions and, of course, as I have already announced, we will support the proposal of the law, as we did on the working body. However, it is appropriate to consider and appeal to all competent authorities not to repeat similar situations in the future or to point out certain anomalies substantially earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone! The Health Activity Act, in Article 63, provides that the knowledge of the Slovenian language shall be demonstrated by a certificate of completion of secondary school in the Republic of Slovenia or by a certificate of successful examination of Slovenian knowledge. This proof must also be provided upon application for a professional examination. The need for Slovenian knowledge was justified in the text of the amendment of the law adopted by Members in 2017 by the fact that relevant language knowledge is essential for effective communication between a patient and a healthcare professional. Of course, we all agree with this because this has ensured the quality and smooth medical treatment of the patient. By supplementing the law before us today, an anomaly is being carried out, to which Members were warned by Italian students of physiotherapy. With the proposed addition, these students will be able to take an expert examination with the help of an interpreter, thereby obtaining a professional qualification to be presented in their home country of Italy for recognition. It should be pointed out that the proposed supplement does not constitute a reduction of the standards concerning the required knowledge of the Slovenian language. If these graduates want to carry out their activities in Slovenia, they will still be subject to the same criteria as to the corresponding level of knowledge of the Slovenian language. Today's changes represent a compromise solution for these students to be able to carry out the activity for which they were trained in Slovenia in their home country. With this anomaly and the plight of these students, we were already familiar with the Modern Centre Party at the time of the previous government and, as the then president of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, I have responded with all responsibility to this problem and raised the question of the Member State to the Minister of Health at that time. Today, we can really say that this point of the breakthrough, from which the awareness that this area needs to be regulated, has extended to other political actors as well. We in the Modern Centre Party are particularly pleased that the proposal for a law on the Committee has received the single support of all members of the home committee. Today we have an opportunity and an opportunity to adopt an amendment to the law that will solve the bureaucratic problem in which these students have come into existence. The solution that is before us today is extremely important for these students and solves their several years of long-term hardship, while at the same time drawing an encouraging picture for the international public about the possibility of education in Slovenia. We will therefore unanimously support the proposal in the SMC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a new law on the amendments and additions to the Sparta Act within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To complement my explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Marjana Dolinšk, State Secretary in the Cabinet of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! Sport is one of the rare social sub-systems that, despite widespread social divisions, creates the basis for the integration of Slovenians, thereby representing an important symbol of national identity, and is often highlighted as the most successful segment of society. In view of the important effects for individuals and society as a whole, sport is intended to represent the fundamental right of each individual and, as a whole, to have broad access to sports activities, to lead to the realization of public interest in the field of sport. In doing so, it is important that sport activities are carried out at the highest possible quality level and that all individuals involved in competition sports be provided with an environment where they can achieve sports results in a fair manner and ensure the integrity of sport. The proposal to amend and supplement the Sport Act before us is mainly the result of amended legislation on the protection of personal data and the publication of such data. The proposed changes and additions do not deviate from the objectives and principles on which the current system of sport in the Republic of Slovenia is based. On 25 May 2018, the EU Regulation, the European Parliament and the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, which, by its provisions, interferes with the management of public records and the way in which data are collected and published in those records, entered into force. Pursuant to the provisions of that Regulation, the EU is no longer allowed to publish any personal data unless specifically provided for in the law. Since the Sports Act was adopted prior to the entry into force of that Regulation, it does not contain provisions governing the public publication of data contained in alerts and records under the Sports Act. It is in the general public interest to ensure access to data in the alerts and records provided by the Sports Act and that certain data can be made public. The public publication of the data will allow citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to check which professionals in sport meet the conditions for performing their work in sport. It will also ensure greater integrity of sport by publishing information on athletes and allow for easier and faster decision-making on the rights of athletes, which it has provided them with the Sport Act. Sporters are entitled to adapt school and study obligations, to preventive health care, to public sector employment, to reimbursement of education and training costs and, last but not least, to the addition of a pension for exceptional achievements in the field of sport. The eligibility of these rights will be open to decision makers to access publicly published data without unnecessary administrative obstacles. The new law will also adequately regulate the renaming of the umbrella sports organisation in the field of disabled sports, which has been renamed early this year and is now using a new shortcut in legal traffic. Dear Members and Members! The text of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sport has already been discussed by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which supported the proposed amendments while proposing certain additions to the text. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined and supported the opinion of the Council of State since the State Council has supported the bill. The government also supports the proposed amendments tabled by the parties to the coalition, as the proposed amendments will enable the Authority to decide more quickly, allowing investors to protect and enforce their rights as easily as possible. The proposed amendments also allow a step towards removing administrative barriers and a more friendly state administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u54	Thank you very much. At its 11th session, on 13 May 2020, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Sport submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. At its 57th regular meeting on 21 February 2020, the College of Presidents adopted a decision to consider the draft law following a reduced procedure. Amendments to the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus and SAB Group of Members were tabled within the deadline. A representative of the proposer, State Secretary in the cabinet of Prime Minister Marjan Dolinšek, Secretary-General of the Slovenian Olympic Committee Blaž Perko and representative of the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the work of the committee. The representative of the applicant said in the introduction that the draft law lays down the legal basis for the publication of certain data from the professional sports survey, the identification of private professional workers, the identification of professional and professional athletes in sport and the records of registered and categorised athletes. Amendments to the law also bring about alignment with the right order of the European Union. In accordance with the public interest, access to data in public records provided for by the Sports Act is also ensured. He also explained that the Association for Sport of Disabled Persons of Slovenia — the Paralympic Committees of January 2020 had formally changed their name and that all the indications of their name were appropriately replaced in the law. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. Her representative commented on the amendments tabled and said that, in the work where they followed their opinion, their concerns were largely rectified accordingly. It further focused on the amendments to Article 3, 4 of the bill, which introduces some new content by supplementing the existing paragraphs and by adding new clarifications. It explained that these new contents are related to the matter, which is also regulated by both Articles, but were not subject to an assessment when they were drawn up in writing. The Committee also received an opinion from the Council of State supporting the proposed amendments. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee welcomed the adoption of the bill. They considered that by establishing a public declaration of professional athletes, showing private sports workers and showing professional and professionally trained workers in sport, the realization of public interest in sport would be facilitated. The publication of the above data will ensure that any person wishing to engage in sport or a movement activity to maintain health may have an insight into who fulfils the conditions for performing professional work in sport. Thus, it will be excluded that the exercise process would be non-professional and cause injury to the trainers and have a negative impact on the whole society. The following explained that the Government in the anti-korona pact has ensured that sports organisations are provided, that the funds for the sport programme in the budget remain unchanged and that relaxation measures in the field of sport are already being implemented by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. They also agreed that top athletes are ambassadors of Slovenia and therefore it is necessary to raise good athletes in the future. There is also a need to support recreational sports, including family sports, which strengthens the mental abilities of young people, friendship and allows quality of leisure. The bill was also welcomed by the representative of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. The Committee adopted amendments from SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Articles 3, 4 and 5. The amendment of the SAB Group to Article 4 has been withdrawn. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles, the draft law and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The law introduced during the time of the government of Marjana Sarca does not, by any means, bring major, substantial changes. A record with basic data on the competence of sports workers is unlikely to bring better quality of sport training in general, but creates a certain degree of transparency for the user to verify the competence of the selected sport trainer. The public record of registered and categorised athletes would present, in one place, data already published elsewhere. This, in addition to the transparency of competitions, enables more equal treatment of school athletes. Sport and recreation support a healthier and better quality of life during all life periods. Investing in sports and recreational activities for the sports and recreational participation of citizens in all life periods is the greatest support for a healthy lifestyle. In New Slovenia, we would like to point out that investing the country in sport, which extends the space of sport to all generations and at the same time cares about the development of competitive sport, is investing in the healthy future of the people and citizens. Social culture, sense of belonging and dissemination of value in our sports societies are extremely important for Slovenian society. In New Slovenia we also understand sport as education and integration. Through sports, we learn team spirit, honesty, discipline, consideration, and willingness to work hard. For both older and younger people, a healthy lifestyle is a healthy way of life. In Novi Slovenije we advocate a wide range of sports activities and support professional sport. Slovenia has repeatedly proved that we are a nation of top athletes. This is what we want to maintain, but not to the detriment of quality and recreational sport and youth sport. We want to support carefully and systematically both the sport path of top athletes and their preparation for life on the finished sports path. Therefore, the Members of New Slovenia will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. We have a smaller, but important, content of changes in the field of sport. The Sports Act will change in the field of records and the public of certain data or information on sports workers. The new law will provide a legal basis for the public publication of certain but key data from professional athletes, a survey of private sports workers, a survey of professionally educated and professionally trained sports workers and records of registered and categorised athletes. The aim of the novel is to bring it into line with the legal order of the European Union and at the same time realises the general public interest after informing the population of which sport workers meet the conditions for carrying out the mission of sport. Living a healthy and quality free time through sports activities means engaging in sports activities, regular professional, recreational exercise and participation in sports events. It is undeniable that properly planned and guided sports exercises have many beneficial effects on the body. If these programmes are implemented by individuals who do not meet the professional criteria laid down, which are a prerequisite for the safe and quality performance of motor-body activities, such incompetence in the implementation may cause damage to the trainers. Any person wishing to engage in sport or a movement activity professionally or merely recreationally will now have a view of publicly published information on who meets the professional conditions for carrying out such activities. In addition, the amendment of the law will facilitate the exercise of public interest in local communities, as the operators of the call for the co-financing of the annual sport programme will have the opportunity to directly verify the information that meets the conditions for co-financing. Additional novelties with additions to the parent working body facilitate the exercise of the rights of athletes they have under other laws, such as the reimbursement of education costs, the enforcement of subsidised public transport, the acquisition of an exceptional pension, the exercise of professional work in sport under special conditions and so on. Finally, the adoption of the text submitted also entails an administrative burden for both athletes and the civil sport sphere as well as for record managers themselves. In the Desus Group we will support the proposed legal content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. The sport is as old as the old game of man. In addition to the original entertainment and entertainment, competition and motor activities are becoming more important. Now most of the definitions and definitions of sport highlight an educational, competitive and health-preventive aspect. The aim is to establish the legal basis for the public publication of certain data from the surveys carried out by the Ministry of Science and Sport Education and the records maintained by the OCS on the basis of public authority. In our party, it seems relevant that the amendment of the law will make it easier to achieve public interest in sport in local communities, because this way the operators of the public tender to co-finance the annual sport programme in individual local communities will have the opportunity to verify who meets the conditions for co-financing and who does not. The public publication of professional athletes, private athletes, workers and professionally trained and professional athletes in sport provides conditions that citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can more and better engage in sport and the movement to maintain health. Thus, each individual can have an insight into who meets the conditions for performing professional work in sports. We have also taken one step forward by implementing the Road Transport Act, which introduces free public transport for registered and categorised athletes with student or student status, as of 1 February this year. Today, the accuracy, accuracy, regularity of the data in the register of registered and categorised athletes is extremely important because of the exercise of their rights. In the Slovenian National Party Group, it seems important to us that EMŠO will also be marked as a link between the various records and for the verification of data from the Central Population Register, which is managed and managed by the Ministry responsible for Home Affairs. The public administration will be more friendly to us, and administrative obstacles will be removed for the population, as the data will once be entered into the public sector system. It is also important that the date of death be taken out of the register of registered and categorised athletes. Who has any nationality is also important, as the Sports Act stipulates that only an athlete who has the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia can be categorised. The latest data are, of course, personal data and are not freely available to the public. It should also be made clear that all stakeholders in the chain have access to the data collected in the records, precisely because of multi-channel data collection or collection. In the Slovenian National Party Group we will support the law because it is good for everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, one nice greeting for all! In the SDS Group, we have no problems supporting this law. It is, however, a fact that when we talk about records or the protection of personal data, in the SDS Group we always read very carefully what solutions individual laws solve in these areas. With regard to records and the protection of personal data in the field of sport, we were fortunately rescued by the 2018 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. In short, Europe has said that in Slovenia we can make public records where they are in the general public interest and that the protection of personal data is not as important a thing as some want to imagine. In our view, it is also very important that this law brings less red tape to access individual information. We hope in the SDS Group that this intention, i.e. less red tape, will also be the intention of any further legislative proposals prepared by individual officials or officials at individual ministries. However, it is a fact that so far we have had a great deal of difficulty in obtaining individual records, because everything has been hidden, that this is not in the general public interest. There were a lot of problems in the field of sports alone. When municipalities prepared either annual sports programmes or even were so ideal that they wanted to prepare a strategy for the development of sport, everything got stuck in records – problems with data acquisition. Thus, those who were going to work on the strategy for the development of peat wondered where to send questions to get official information on categorized and registered athletes in their congregation. Then there were municipal officials or sports associations or any public institutions in the field of sport asking about national industries, where a large part of these records were unclear. Whether they had no athletes in their records or even some internationally established athletes found themselves in the same records twice. Then these same officials asked the Olympic Committees whether they had any records, and they got the same answers again, either bad records or none at all. And then they asked the same questions at the Ministry and similar answers. In short, we are very pleased that all those who want to have information in line with the general public interest in sport will have easier access, especially through less red tape. And as has been said, not only is it easier access and less red tape, this law is also important in a direction where other laws give certain ratings to registered and categorised athletes, and since the records will be public, it will be easier to access and justify the individual costs that individual athletes in individual categories must have in individual sports to achieve their statutory ratings or benefits. In short, although this is more than a drafting of the amendment of the new law, in the SDS Group we believe that it brings a lot of positive solutions in the field of sport, so we will be happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues, colleagues! The LMŠ Group will support the proposal for the Sport Act as the amendment aligns Slovenia's legal order with the EU's legal order on new provisions for the protection of individuals with regard to the processing and free movement of personal data. We also supported him on the parental committee. The proposal thus lays down the legal basis for the public publication of certain data from professional athletes, the identification of private sports workers, the identification of professionally educated and professionally trained sports workers and the records of registered and categorised athletes. The MILF is already carrying out all the tasks in the field of multiple surveys. The scope of the examinations and records had to be regulated in such a way as to establish the basis for the publication and transmission of individual data from the surveys and records in accordance with the law under the General Data Protection Regulation, according to the national legislation, so that there would be no more confusion. According to the new report, registered and categorised athletes will also collect information about EMHOs. The EMHO is important because it represents a unique identifier or a link between the various records, which undoubtedly allows the fact that an individual is already registered or not, and that there is no duplication of the entry of the data simply because, for example, an individual has changed the address of the residence. Public disclosure of data in this area is in the public interest, as it will be possible for new citizens to check which professional worker or trainer in sport meets the conditions for carrying out their work or whether they have appropriate professional licences and thereby prevent abuses. In practice, sports industries are often carried out by individuals who do not meet the conditions for professional work in sport. As a result, this means that the exercise process is carried out in a non-professional manner, which has proven to cause injury, that the impact on the health allowance is not even talked about and, of course, also has a negative impact on the whole society as such. Another very important change that applies to the municipalities is that of this amendment. The amendment of the law will also make it easier to achieve public interest in sport in local communities, as the operators of the call for the co-financing of the annual sport programme will thus have the opportunity to directly verify who fulfils the conditions for co-financing. After home, calls for annual sports in the municipalities will be able to take place more quickly, and this is also very important as far as the list of Marjan Šarc is concerned. In the LMŠ, we advocate that sport activities should be carried out at the highest possible quality level and in order to ensure transparency in the operation of all players in sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Vice President, again for your word. Social Democrats are aware of the importance of sport and of the importance sport has to the life of an individual and the life of all of us as a community, as a nation. As the initiators wrote in the public holiday initiative, sport is a social activity that has many positive effects: strengthening health, education, promoting positive values and linking Slovenia. Today we have a new Law on Sport, which does not bring about major changes, but will help to make some information more accessible that can be made public. In this way, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to check which professional sports professionals meet the conditions for carrying out their work in sport. The publication of data which will now be collected in one place will also ensure greater integrity of sport and allow for easier and faster decision-making on the rights of athletes. The eligibility of these rights will be open to decision-makers with a view to public disclosure without unnecessary administrative obstacles. The proposed amendment follows European Union legislation on the protection of personal data and their publication. Of course, we support all the changes that go towards simplification of data and debarcation, but we also need to draw attention to the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service which have been presented to the competent committee concerning the use of a single home number and the determination of the purpose of collecting personal data in the law. We are aware that the area of personal data protection is a particularly sensitive subject and therefore, when amending legislation, it is necessary to act with particular care and in accordance with the principle of proportionality. Thus, the provisions of the law must be drafted in such a way as to satisfy the criteria set out in the Constitution and the law. If the amendment is adopted, we certainly expect users and processors of this personal data to act with extreme caution and in accordance with the recommendations of the Information Commissioner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you, Vice President. I've already said hello to the present, and now it's just a nice greeting to the distinguished Secretary of State! In 2018 a new system law on sport was adopted, which includes in many parts the principle of integrity and transparency of activities in sport. The proposed amendment, however, complements the law in particular with a view to enabling citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to verify which professional workers in sport meet the conditions for performing their work and to ensure greater integrity of sport. The change will contribute to the realization of public interest in sport in the local community, as their operators of the call for competition for co-financing of the annual sport programme will have the opportunity to directly verify who meets the conditions for co-financing and who does not. This follows the principle of legality and flexibility and the principle of national and rational spending of public funds. The aim is more, the first is to establish the legal basis for the public publication of certain data from professional athletes, from the profile of private sports workers, from the presentation of professionally educated and professionally trained sports workers and from the records of registered and categorised athletes. The second objective is to transpose into Slovenian law the provisions of the European Regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. In order to comply with the provisions of the Regulation, it is necessary to provide a legal basis for access to data on public records provided by the Sports Act. The third objective of the Act is to update in all indications the amended title of the Union for Sport of Disabled Persons of Slovenia – Slovenian Paralympic Committees in January. We have prepared and tabled a proposal from the coalition partners, following both the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the additional proposals by the State Council and the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. The proposed amendments apply the principles of friendly public administration and remove administrative barriers for the population. For this reason, we will unanimously support the proposal for a new Law on Sport in the Parliamentary Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Sport is an activity that enriches the quality of life of each of us and has a significant impact on society as a whole. Sport brings people together more than anything else, regardless of age or social affiliation. This is a rare social factor which, despite all general political, social and social divisions, provides the basis for strengthening national identity and unity. With the outbreak and spread of the new Corona virus both in Slovenia, Europe and globally, we are well aware of the negative impact it has had on sports, various sports societies, associations, clubs and sports organisations, as well as on each individual athlete and athlete. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up an anti-korona legislative package to include sports organisations that had to cancel their activities and events and closed the doors and thus suffered financial consequences which threaten their future operation. By confirming these measures in the National Assembly, we have shown Members and Members that we are aware of the importance of Slovenian sport and sports organisations. We have prevented a black scenario for the emerging forms of sports movement activities, with the aim of maintaining health, well-being and vitality, association and entertainment, as well as for competitions and programmes for the preparation and competition of top athletes. Without this, there would be no conditions for achieving excellent sports achievements at international level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a trade law on trade amendments and supplements. The draft law was tabled by a group of eight Members and Members with the first-signed Luka Mesec. With regard to this bill, the group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matey Tashner Vatovci requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Luke Mescu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. As the President has already said, we have drafted a bill in the Levica Group, which, after 17 years since the 2003 referendum, would give effect to the will of citizens and citizens, which was then clearly expressed in support of closing trade on Sundays in Slovenia. This is not a European uniqueness, in virtually all of Central Europe, Austria, Switzerland, Germany, Hungary and so on, trade is closed on Sundays. We have the clear will to make this happen, since 17 years ago, citizens have expressed themselves. In recent days, according to the law, trade unions have also shown that the majority of them support it or that employees are practically in favour of it, i.e. in their survey, 95 % of employees volunteered to close trade on Sundays. With this, I would point out that it is not true, which is sometimes reported to be harmful to employees because on Sundays employees receive extras for Sunday's work. Employees have made clear in their vote that they prefer to have free time rather than work on Sundays. Of course, that's understandable. There are about 115 thousand people working extensively in trade activities, part of which must be done on Sundays, which means they have no Sundays as a day off, so they cannot survive this day with their family. And you can imagine what it's like to say to a store that gets – because they said that several times themselves – instead of a week off on Wednesday, when the kids are at school, a partner at work, and from that day on you have much less quality time than you have if you get a free Sunday. That is why, despite the complications in the government yesterday, I call on you to decide, on your own conscience, to decide for the benefit of the people, to have, in the debates and votes before your eyes, mainly employees in trades and to support them finally getting a Sunday off work. In doing so, I would also like to respond to the argument of the Chamber of Commerce that this will result in forgiveness and reduced trade. I'd like to invite you here for a thought experiment first. A good part of the trade activity is related to groceries, food and so on and people who work there on Sundays, for example, working in Spar and Mercator, can tell you that traffic on Sundays is the smallest and that these stores are open on Sundays only because the competitor is also open, that they do not lose their regular loyal customers, say Spar compared to Mercator, on Sunday. That's why these stores are open. So there will also be no economic damage or a reduction in consumption due to this in this area. As far as spending in other segments is concerned, I would like to say this. We are in the 21st century, all our alarms are burning, as far as overconsuming clothing, consumption materials and so on, overuse of fossil fuels and natural resources. And I think the only thing that would make sense is not only to decide that one day a week is without work and consumption, but that this one day a week is also kind of a day for our planet, to start our consumption into some climate framework, so that we can leave this planet in about the same state as we have ourselves. In short, so much for the intro. I look forward to the debate, and I hope that today we will achieve the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Simon Zajc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, for an introductory presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The bill that we are considering today proposes closing shops on Sundays and by law certain days off. Except, of course, these are sales of up to 200 square metres of sales space at gas stations, airports, railway and bus stations and hospitals which could operate on Sundays and work days free of charge. It follows from the material to the law that the main objectives followed by the proposal are to realize the will of voters who said in a referendum 17 years ago that trade would be closed on Sundays. We would like to point out that this was a consultative referendum. However, the question, which was rather vague, concerned the partial closure of trade, since, following the proposal at the time, emergency products stores could remain open up to a maximum of ten weeks a year, while the retailer could operate on a limited area on petrol services, shops in hospitals, hotels, airports, border crossings and railways on all Sundays. In 2003, the referendum was attended by 27.54% of regular beneficiaries, with some 256 000 500 voters voting against 185 thousand 800. Consumer shopping practices have changed significantly during this period. Moreover, a large number of younger consumers who were not yet electoral beneficiaries did not participate in the decision-making process. The second objective of the bill is to provide workers and workers in trade and certain related activities with weekends and days off, which are defined by law as days off. Moreover, the bill's proposal, according to the applicants, also pursues a broader social objective of freeing from unnecessary work and abandoning and encouraging continued spending. Initially, we would stress that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the provision of sufficient free time for workers and workers to develop their own potential and quality social life. However, the Government currently considers that, due to the consequences of the new coronavirus epidemic on the economy, including trade and other related activities, a bill prohibiting trade on Sundays is not suitable for further consideration in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the Government prefers to regulate the weekly operation of shops in the context of social dialogue before legal regulation. The agreement on Sunday and holiday work concluded between trade unions and employers in 2018 under the new collective agreement is currently in force. This applies until 2022. In accordance with the collective agreement, trade workers, with the exception of certain exceptions such as family companies, pharmacies, small-border shops, bakeries, should not already be allowed to work on all 15 holidays, but they may work for a maximum of two weeks a month, but not more than 20 weeks a year in total. The additions for Sunday, holiday work and categories that the employer should not load on Sundays and holidays were also agreed. Trade, as a very important economic sector, generates 34% of the revenues of sales of the economy and employs slightly less than 18% of employees in the Slovenian economy. However, sales, with the exception of food and certain other exceptions, were largely closed from 16 March to the beginning of May due to the new coronavirus epidemic. However, only 18 sales and sales outlets were opened. 5. 2020, i.e. two months after the implementation of the measures. Now that all sellers can do business, traders face relaunch problems, as certain epidemic restrictions still apply and the volume of work is smaller. According to today's SURS data, in April 2019 the real income from retail sales was 22.6 % lower, the most decline in real income in retail trade, in specialised retail stores with motor fuels and in retail retail trade. Closing trade on Sundays would, according to some estimates, reduce turnover by an additional 10%, which could also have a negative impact on labour needs, of course. Given that the bill does not provide for any exceptions to tourist areas, closing trade on Sundays in tourist areas would particularly affect small traders and have a negative impact on Slovenia's tourist offer. They are also aware of this in the neighbouring country, Croatia and Italy, where the shops are open on Sundays and where some Slovenian consumers are expected to go after the purchases. In view of this, the Government considers that the proposal for a new law in this form cannot be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek and Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. The new Trade Act has raised a lot of dust in the public, as the amendment would ensure that trade remains closed even after the epidemic, on Sundays and holidays. During the opening exceptions, there would be smaller trades at gas stations, airports, rail and bus stations and hospitals. In the past two months, when we fought the new coronavirus, we were able to learn at the same time that opening trade on Sundays is not vital. Because the fact is that the opening times of many shops offer sufficient opportunities for shopping even if the shops on Sundays and holidays are not open. In the SAB, we are therefore convinced that, as at the time of the most stringent restrictive measures, people should also refrain from buying on Sundays. We note, however, that at the end of work on Sundays and holidays, the question arises of the compatibility of such a proposal with the Constitution, which requires freedom of economic initiative. For this reason, we believe that the question of closing trade on Sundays and holidays is not only a question of 90 Members, but of all citizens and citizens. We stress that closing trades on Sundays and holidays in no way, and I stress once again, must by no means become an excuse for forgiveness. In addition to forgiveness, we are also concerned about other negative consequences, such as lower monthly income for employees, because working on Sundays and holidays has a strong impact on the amount of personal income since traders have higher hourly items these days. Students also work with regular employees on Sundays and holidays, and every euro in their wallet is still known. Let me add as a warning and warning that the trade activity represents 34% of the income of the Slovenian economy. Therefore, the possible closure of trade on Sundays and holidays could lead to a significant economic downturn. In the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, they point out that closing trade on Sundays and holidays would mean a 10% drop in trade revenues. The question is also whether smaller trade could survive at the time of the imposition of this measure. But on the other hand, it is a major social damage, as open trades of the family of merchants and merchants discourage the quality of cohabitation and the time spent together for family or neighbors. From this point of view, employers could become family-friendly businesses, and from now on workers could have a completely free weekend or at least one day in it, which is now virtually impossible. In addition, employers would make it easier to schedule and schedule their employees. In the SAB Group, we are aware that today the highest price for opening trade on Sundays and holidays is paid by about 20,000 workers and workers, because they have to work on days that are free for the majority of the population. As has already been said in the media, the initiative has been expressed by many mothers with small children, for whom quality family time is important. We also welcome the Government's intention to make exceptions to closed trade arrangements with the Economic and Social Council, as successful and effective measures that are good for the country, without social dialogue, cannot be achieved. We will not oppose the new Act on Trade in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! When discussing Sunday's trade, it seems pointless to explain that, at the beginning of the organised labour movement, one of the fundamental requirements of regulation and, in particular, the limitation of working time was one of the basic requirements. However, working time must be regulated and limited due to the inalienable human right to rest. It has been about 140 years since then, and we are here today in Slovenia, and it is worth asking whether we can really call it progress. Work on Sundays and holidays is bad. The fact that none of the relevant factors in Slovenia are problematic about the fact that we work on Fridays and holidays, on Sundays and holidays, is already sufficiently illustrative. Not only do employees work in activities that need to function, but they are employed in activities, such as trade, for which they do not need to provide their services even on Sundays, they take advantage of disability. With payments that are absurdly inadequate. The general reason to oppose Sunday work is relatively simple. Those who are violently expelled from the general life rhythm of the environment are severely affected by this, so that even the economic gains that are possible do not help him much. The weekly rhythm from Monday to the end of the week also belongs to the general nature, so only for very well-founded community reasons can some be asked to give up. The sellers and sellers are granted modest monetary compensation, but it does not appear that their Sunday work would contribute to any special community well-being. The general reason for Sunday's work is that business time trade is one of the key elements of competition in activities. Any restrictions in this area are therefore a threat to limiting economic growth and the threat of social security for all, including those in trade. All participants in a competitive fight must be provided with a space of manoeuvre to better respond to any changes in the business environment. Individual traders make their own business decisions based on perceived business opportunities and, above all, on basic considerations: satisfy the consumer and offer him something more and something new at any time and anywhere. The Slovenian consumer is reportedly increasingly demanding and informed, so he likes a wide range of trades. Ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely impossible to determine why shops in such large numbers work on Sundays. It is also impossible to figure out what would happen if someone could not buy, such as washing powder on Sundays. But it can do it any other day of the week, in a way that is not really overcomplicated. Massive unnecessary work on Sundays is socially harmful. Thousands of people who work instead of resting suffer social and family life. These people simply don't have enough time or themselves, let alone their families. While employees in trades have the right to rest, this right to much denial and limitation. They can be happy because on Sundays and holidays, they do business with part-time, and sometimes they do not change. The experience of the past weeks, when trade was mostly closed on Sundays and largely closed, shows that Sunday's traffic is mainly spread over the remaining days of the week. In circumstances where trade did not work on Sundays, we have seen that purchasing habits can adapt quickly to such a situation, and what is most important can and can be adapted quickly to such a situation by trading societies. In Sunday's trade controversy, the need to pay adequately for the work done is often highlighted, which is intended to provide appropriate motivational and compensatory effects. It is a myth that is unrealistic, why the whole retail activity is justified and built on the highly underestimated part of the vast majority of employees. Members of the Desus Group recognized the reasons for and against and we define ourselves differently. In most cases, we will support the proposal that amendments and amendments to the law are appropriate for further consideration. So, Mr Mesec, Commissioner, the three members of Desus will support your proposal, and two members of Desus will not do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u78	Nice greetings again to all present, especially you, Mr President! The reference to the outcome of the referendum, according to our assessment, is completely wrong or shows how poorly some people understand Slovenian. The functional literacy level of some Members is at the bottom. The question at the referendum was: Are you in favour of having stores open not more than 10 weeks a year? If the voters voted against it, otherwise it may mean that they are against opening shops on Sundays, but it is not necessary. They could also vote against it because they did not agree that the shops were open only up to 10 weeks a year. Consumers may wish that stores were open all 52 weeks a year. It must also be said that 72.46% of the voters of the referendum did not attend at all. Lawmakers have literally abused the outcome of the referendum in order to make it an exclusive objection to the majority of voters to open shops on Sundays. In the Slovenian National Party, we would not want to interfere with the free economic initiative, we are aware that trade activity is extremely difficult, work with customers, physical hard work, multi-change work, work on the days when most people are at home free. However, we believe that the country should not interfere with the schedules of Slovenian employers. If we start shopping today, will we continue with the inn tomorrow? Guests also have the right to rest and family life. Will we then continue with health workers who are already completely exhausted at this time of the epidemic? Each trader shall, before signing a contract of employment, know under what difficult conditions it will perform its work. We agree that the trade chain can't be exactly a family-friendly enterprise. Children trade well know what it's like to be alone at home, what it's like to be single for a holiday without a mom, but they also grow up. Many generations of child trafficking have already proved that. There are also traders who would like to work on Sundays, as they can thus earn more than the euro. If consumers really wanted the stores closed on Sundays, they would simply not go to the store on Sundays. There is no trade in this country that would be open if there were no buyer for four consecutive weeks. In this country, we also have good individuals who work all day long during the week, going to the store once a week, usually for the weekend. A garage like this would make it impossible for the state to visit the store. On Saturdays and Sundays, many families with young children and pensioners are also in stores. Trade centres for them also form part of social life. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that open trading times should be regulated on the market. As long as the merchants have a profit on Sundays, they'll have stores open. If we worked with a loss, we'd close the store on Sundays. It's perfectly simple logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Janez Moškrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, all present and respected public! The proposed proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act aims to ensure that all workers and workers in trade and certain related activities are provided free weeks and free days, which are defined by law as part of the day off. However, not only that, but also the proposal realises the will of the voters expressed in the referendum, namely that most of the weeks and holidays are closed, which is the opposite today. According to the proposal, the proposal pursues a broader social objective of freedom from unnecessary work, motivation for unnecessary spending, ensuring free time for better family time, and providing individuals with an opportunity to have a quality free time, develop their own potential and quality social life. The Supplement to this Act, in Article 8, provides that the trader of the operating time of the shops may not be appointed on Sundays and by the law of certain days off. In addition, open shops that do not measure more than 200 square metres could be opened at petrol services, airports, railway and bus stations and hospitals. In Article 12, the proposer also proposed an amendment that would give rise to a violation of the new restriction, which is to determine the opening time of the shops, provided for a fine equal to the amount applicable to the infringement of the existing provision of Article 8. The current 2008 law does not impose restrictions on traders in determining working time. Furthermore, according to the applicant, paragraph 2 of Article 8 is no longer technically necessary, as it creates the impression that workers in trades with a loss of weeks have also lost some rights. In the SDS, we support the proposal for a trade law, but we agree that such an important law must be considered in the Economic and Social Council before the final adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Robert Pavšč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you very much, chairman. Good day to you all! In the Marjan Šarca List, we support the closing of stores on Sundays. We believe that the opening times of many trades offer sufficient opportunities to conduct purchases even if trade is not open on Sundays. Closing trade on Sundays will bring more free time for employees who have not had it so far. As a result, it is also about promoting positive values, such as quality co-existence and quality leisure time in society at all. The fact is that the Trade Union of Slovenia also agrees with permanent closure. Let us also remind ourselves of the 2003 referendum, which has already decided or advised that trade should be closed on Sundays. However, this must certainly not be an excuse for possible forgiveness, which has now proved to be a real threat or threat. The proposal for Sunday's closure of trade is opposed by both traders and the government, although this proposal has been supported by the SDS's largest coalition party. That is why we are gaining this issue on a complex basis, especially as regards exceptions. And that's how purpose loses its meaning. The aim is to take more quality family free time and to calm down Sunday's pace, or to intervene in free entrepreneurship and consequently in employment. On the one hand, labour rights are certainly present and, on the other hand, individual specifications need to be taken into account. On Sunday’s work, merchants and merchants can make strong repairs to their salaries, which is why we are particularly interested in whether the trade unions have checked the support of this measure in their base. How will trade in tourist destinations, markets and other forms of sales be handled? There are a lot of questions that need to be answered and a widest possible round of discussions, before the country comes to grips with administrative measures again. Is this possible before the law enters into force? This debate will certainly answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! First of all, the Group of Social Democrats will not object in any way to the adoption of a bill which guarantees workers and workers in trade activities the right to Sunday's rest. That, the right of workers to rest, by the weekend should be at the heart of today's debate. The same applies to the right of employees to be paid better for work during the weekend between holidays and at night. These two rights should be the focus of our debate. If it is to be correct and should lead to the desired goal, it would be useful to avoid moralistic debates on Sunday's rest, family day, curbing wild consumption and the immeasurable need to judge other people because of the ways in which they spend their deserved free time. That's what this is about. It's about free time. Free time is not something that has always existed, it is essentially a new concept, it is an acquired right that has to be ripped out of the control of those who thought they could own workers and must by no means be left to waste. Only decades of union fighting, political efforts and social dialogue have led to the point where the weekend for most people is free and the free time for most of them is self-evident. But it's still just for most people. For the nature of certain human activities is such that we can never be exactly all at the same time free. In decades, which is free time, the whole industry has developed on it. Trades can be prevented from operating on Sunday and we refer to the right of workers to rest. But with this argument, we can't stop the E.R., the fire brigade, the critical infrastructure on Sundays. It is also difficult to imagine that on Sundays we would close our doors to hotels, guest shops, museums, galleries, national parks and not industrial activities that cannot stop their processes. Our carefree free time is afforded by those who work at this time. Our spending free time gives essentially bread to many people, not just traders, so in many professions where Sunday work is inevitable, the right to rest is compensated in other days. Inconvenient work is paid better, even double. If Sunday is a business day, we may not be working on Mondays. In the countries set by the law, for example, Austria and Germany also have the legal right of workers to an uninterrupted one-and-a-half-day rest, which includes Sunday. Unfortunately, our legislation does not know such general labour rights. Your Honor! The proposal before us today presents itself as a reality 17 years ago of the people's failed referendum decision. And yes, the referendum on Sunday's trade was the last so-called preliminary legislative referendum. In it, voters supported the intention of Sunday’s closing of trades, and the National Assembly should legislate this decision and so should it. However, the adoption of the law resulted in constitutional complaints, which were also successful because of the details and exceptions to the law. And on Sundays, stores reopened their doors. Shortly thereafter, the possibility of a previous legislative referendum was also abolished, as it was precisely in the case of the Trade Act that the details of the enforceability of the law and its constitutional compliance were shown to be important. However, it is important that the first Sunday work initiatives appeared shortly after the legalisation of the minimum wage allowances, thus finally starting workers and shopkeepers to receive at least better pay for their Sunday and Saturday work. When it came to managing labour costs, even trading companies no longer opposed Sunday's work ban. There has been a collective agreement between employers, unions, whereby the employer, which is specifically bound by the collective agreement, can allocate the employee’s annual working time to a maximum of two weeks per month and to a maximum of 20 weeks per year. The new experiment, which is now ahead of us, is thus trying to finally legitimize the referendum will for people to shut down trade on Sundays. Of course, not then nor today did anyone ask about the details and exceptions that must be in place on Sundays, such as gas stations. This time, too, there are exceptions to the law and additional calls are also coming, such as small traders in tourist settlements whose only real income in the out-of-season period is the income they generate on Saturdays and Sundays, which enable them to pay basic living costs. Further consideration may have to be given to extending these exceptions, while being very, very careful, because, as has already been said, the very existence of exceptions has destroyed the last attempt at human will. And perhaps further, which is in fact our only true procedural statement in this case, is that this time this bill has not gone through social dialogue, which is the basis or must be the basis for the adoption of such legislation. And don't let them blame us, there may always be a bit of duplicity in the debate on Sunday's trade week. At the same time, everyone who works in stores enjoys a Sunday break, and at the same time, many enjoy a family Sunday meal in a nearby or more remote restaurant, without thinking about when the guest staff spends time with their family and how much Sunday work is known in their wallets. At the very least, we think that our way of living free time actually encourages their Sunday work. It is precisely because of such cases that we call on us not to go into moralizing today about the sanctity of family life and to be appalled by the Pharisees about those who spend their weeks in shopping malls. We do not judge too quickly that we will not be judged quickly. It is the right of employees to rest and to pay, not to impose our morals and ideas on others, how they should spend their free time. If I conclude and repeat, in the Group of Social Democrats we support the right of all employees to a Sunday rest and to an additional payment for work in a less favourable time. Workers in commercial activities must not be either an exception or a scapegoat, so at the end of the debate we will support the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. However, we call on all other areas, by agreement, not by ban, to ensure the right of all employees to spend two consecutive days in peace and with their loved ones and to receive a fair additional payment for their work in unfavourable situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be moved by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The idea of closing trade on Sundays is not new, it is almost a constant on the parliamentary agenda and in every single call of the National Assembly. The SMC, as a socio-liberal party in its programming centres, advocates a free economic initiative or such an intervention by the State, which is proportionate, which is carefully thought out and which in any event does not constitute an excessive breach of the social agreement and the negative economic consequences. Especially at such a difficult time that we are currently in. Let us remember that in 2017 there was one very important agreement between the social partners, which made a major move and significantly improved the situation of workers in the trade sector. I'm talking about an agreement on closing trade on certain holidays, the maximum number of weeks they can work on and the substantial increase in pay for this Sunday's work. Today the situation is different than it was then. It is much more demanding and again requires rational consideration as to whether it is essential that trade closes its doors permanently on Sundays. In particular, it is necessary to consider what such a solution would now mean for the Slovenian economy and, equally important, what such a solution would now mean for the situation in the labour market. As a result of the coronavirus, the Slovenian economy has in recent weeks and months been quite cut short, the labour market is losing almost the ideal image we have seen in recent years. Our primary objective in this coming period must be to devote all our knowledge, experience and activities to the preparation and implementation of as many measures as possible that will restart the Slovenian economy and put it back in the old tracks to achieving economic growth. However, the measures proposed in this amendment of the law would have exactly the opposite effects, according to our assessment. It would further exacerbate the market situation, not contribute to job conservation, not increase demand and consumption, nor contribute to increased public finances and economic growth. The bill comes at the wrong time and departs from all reasonable measures taken over the last two months to minimise the negative effects of coronaryism. And, yes, the quality of our leisure and family time, which is dictated by the unforgivable pace of modern times, is also a very important value for us. But in no way can he consider the individual’s free choice and his autonomous decision, where, how and when he will fulfill his wishes and needs, even though the simplest ones, such as which day or what time it is right for him to visit a store or someone who feels that it is wrong, to buy or to afford something else that pleases him. The debate on whether trade should be closed on Sundays is always accompanied by some ideological pronoun and SMC as a social-liberal party always stands for individual's personal freedom and his personal choice, in which the state must intervene with care, thoughtfulness and rationality. And above all, do not determine the habits of life, the ways of living free time and our behavior on any day of the year, let it be Sunday, Monday, Thursday, any day. As liberals, it's hard to agree to it and stand behind it. In the SMC Group, the solutions offered by the proponents are not acceptable, especially in addition to those mentioned above. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u87	I apologize, Madam Member, but I ask Members on my left to respect Rule 75, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, that no one disturbs the speaker during the speech. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u88	In the SMC Group, the solutions offered by the proponents are not acceptable. Above all, in addition to the above-mentioned reasons, we do not favour them if these solutions mean additional forgiveness, an increased number of redundant workers and a poorer economic picture of our country. There is no need to further exacerbate the economic and labour market situation due to the consequences of the epidemic at this time and, above all, it is not meaningful. The bill is an exception, where only some shops can work on Sundays and holidays, namely those located in the area of petrol services, airports, rail and bus stations and hospitals, which is slightly different from what has been proposed so far. It is for this reason that complaints arise that the proposal for a law interferes with the equality of business entities in the field of the trade sector, since some comparable trading entities are subject to those criteria and others are not. In doing so, we are surprised that, for example, trade at border crossings and hotel trade is not defined as an exception, although the 2003 referendum issue referred to these shops as an exception. If sufficient support is expected today during the legislative process, we are already calling on all parliamentary groups to think once again about extending the list of exceptions where trade can be opened even on Sundays and days off; for example, in the historical centres, in the city's cores, this is crucial for supporting tourism development. In these stores, on Sundays and other parts of the day's vacation traffic is far the largest. Tourism without trade is simply not, which is also confirmed by the regulation of operating time in virtually all countries of the European Union, especially in those where tourism is an important economic sector. This is pointed out by many stakeholders, these arguments are certainly not removed from the vine and in these times they need to be heard in particular. In the SMC, we also question the appropriateness of the financial consequences of the bill, where the proposal states that the novel will have no negative impact on the state budget. We do not believe that the applicant has carried out any analysis of the possible consequences of the closure of trade, namely what this means for jobs, what it means for the state budget and for the trade sector. Experts warn and assess that when the proposed law is passed, there would be a drop of about 10%. Of the 110 000, some 20,000 jobs provided by Slovenia today would be at risk, bringing 34% of the total revenue to the Slovenian economy. We reiterate that we cannot afford this right now. For all these reasons, we will vote in the SMC Group against the conclusion that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! 17 years have passed since the referendum, at which citizens and citizens in Slovenia decided to close trade on Sundays. 17 years ago, this decision confirmed the desire of workers and trade workers who proposed closing trade. The closure did not take place for a simple reason: due to the pressure of big trade, the capital that has used up all the funds and, in the end, has repeatedly bribed the policy. Prior to this year's May 1st Labor Day, the Trade Workers' Union of Slovenia reiterated its invitation to close trade on Sundays. The offer came at a time when, due to quarantine, all trades were closed on Sunday and when we as a society were also in practice, everyone could be aware that the reasons why trade was open on Sundays were not. We have tabled a law in Levica proposing that trade remain closed after the end of the epidemic on Sundays and on days off. Exceptions would be only minor trades at petrol stations, airports, railway and bus stations and hospitals. We are making a proposal to implement the long-standing efforts of workers in trade so that they can be free on Sundays and on weekends and so that they can spend these days with their families and friends. In view of the broad public support and support given to the proposal by various groups, we expect that the proposal will be adopted before this summer, from the President of the Government to the representatives of the religious communities. We are firmly convinced in Levica that the restriction on the operation of trading times while working free days is a step in the right direction, in the direction of ensuring free time, the right to rest and weekend, to family and social life and a small step towards ending the promotion of constant spending, which is one of the many steps we will have to take as a society in the future. That is why we joined the initiative of the Trade Workers' Union of Slovenia to keep trade closed on Sundays and days off, and we have turned this initiative into a marriage proposal that is before you today. We are proposing a supplement to the existing Article 8 of the Trade Act, which provides that the trader of working hours of shops should not be appointed on Sundays and with the law of certain parts of the day off. As an exception to this definition, only those shops which do not measure more than 200 square metres and are located in the area of petrol stations, airports, railways, bus stations and hospitals may be allowed to be opened on Sunday and on the day off. As I said at the beginning, the people of Slovenia and the people of Slovenia at the referendum in 2003 have already decided that trade should be closed on Sundays. Although the Constitutional Court of Slovenia has also decided three times that such restriction on the interests of capital is not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it has been possible for large traders, through policy, to have not yet achieved the will of the people of Slovenia at the referendum. Today, around 115 thousand workers and workers in trade who have to work on days that are mostly available for the rest of the day pay the highest price. The position of workers and workers in trade, including those in all forms of recreation, is extremely difficult. Working conditions are difficult on Sundays. It is an exchange work with frequent shifts in working time, where workers find it difficult to maintain an orderly life rhythm and social ties with their loved ones. This also applies to workers employed in accompanying activities, such as delivery, which are linked to the opening hours of shops. Although workers and workers are better paid for Sunday's work, something small, workers who are united in the Slovenian Trade Union want to be able to spend the weekend without worry or uncertainty whether they will have to answer their employers on Sunday. Like most other workers, workers in the trade must have the right to a Sunday’s rest or leisure time that they can devote to themselves and their loved ones. Free weeks in the industry, where there is a rapid pace of work, an uncertain shift in working time, overload of workers and frequent pressure on workers, would also constitute a necessary measure to protect the physical and mental health of workers in trade. Limiting working time can directly improve the lives of more than 100,000 workers and indirectly have wider positive social impacts. During the climate crisis and the demand to reduce spending, every step, every step, I repeat, to reduce consumption and to encourage a different life of leisure is in fact the duty of a country that defines itself as sustainable. This is not just about shopkeepers and their neighbors. It is a question of whether we will insist on working free days, on the right to weekly rest, or whether our lives will be completely subordinated to the profits of wholesalers and the endless accumulation of capital. Prolonging business time in trade does not serve consumers, the needs of the population or the public interest. Trades are open on Sundays due to the competition of the tenderers and the desire for profit. And that's all. Prolonging working time is one of the key arms of individual traders in a competitive fight for this profit. As soon as one tenderer serves such strategies, everyone else is forced to do so. The shortest, however, are workers who are forced to work on Sundays with extremely low wages and high burdens. In doing so, it must be said that closing trade on Sunday is not part of the socialist utopia, but rather the long-standing practice of many European countries, with which we like to compare ourselves. Trades in neighbouring Austria or Germany, with the exception of rare exceptions, are closed on Sundays. The same applies to the Netherlands, Belgium, Norway and elsewhere. If we cannot give up one day of work and spending as a society, how can we expect to build a society that will allow for the free development of an individual and a healthy living environment? And if the environmental crisis tells us that we need to start producing and spending differently, the epidemic has shown that this is also fully feasible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister of State! 445 thousand 842 voters, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia already decided at the previous legislative referendum in 2003 on the issue of closing trade on Sundays. New Slovenia proposed the right of employees in stores until Sunday rest with a proposal for a law already in the same year. On 21 September 2003, citizens also nodded at the referendum. A total of 57.53% supported the referendum issue. Later this issue was never completely closed. Recently, at the end of 2017, the National Assembly addressed a proposal for a new trade law proposing to limit the operating time of trade on Sundays with a considerable number of exceptions. Nor did the law at the time explain the determination of the maximum trade area limit nor did it explain the determination of the maximum sales area of trade where trade could still be opened on Sunday. It is precisely this reasoning that is necessary, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, to ensure the constitutional compatibility of the bill. At the time of the consideration of the marriage proposal at the time, an agreement was reached between employers and trade unions, as we have welcomed the Christian Democrats as an important step forward. Setting business hours on Sundays in our free time is not unusual. Countries such as Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Belgium and others determine the closure of trade on Sundays in one way or another. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that we need to weigh more values in the legal regulation of the possibility of trading on Sundays, and we do not take it so lightly. On the one hand, we have a restriction on business freedom of trade to freely determine our operating time. On the other hand, we have the possibility of a Sunday break for traders and traders and the possibility of spending Sunday with their loved ones. From the Christian tradition, which also creates the Central European Civilisation Framework, which belongs to Slovenia, it follows that a person needs a day of rest every week, but it is not just about providing a person with a random day of rest on a week, but it is also about having the opportunity to spend that day with his family, with his loved ones. For practical reasons alone, this cannot be done without harmonising or uniting society on the question of what day of the week it should be. In countries based on Christian tradition, this day is Sunday, which in Slovenian language already says the name of the day alone. In Novi Slovenije, we are detained in interfering with business freedom in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. However, this necessity, following social unification around one day a week in order to realize the values of the family, is one of the reasons why this issue should be harmonised and settled at a higher level. Leaving the week as a day’s work in our society contributes to curbing family life, making it difficult to spend the day off with family members. And let's not forget that almost cliché, truth, family is a fundamental cell of society. We are aware that we cannot guarantee everyone the possibility of a Sunday break. There are professions whose implementation is also necessary on Sunday in certain cases. Each of them needs to be given special consideration, but the aim of unifying society around the week as a part of the day off is to allow Sunday rest and time with family as many citizens as possible and citizens whose weekly work is not necessary. The question to be asked is whether the operation of trade on Sunday is necessary. Given that it is possible for commercial activities to purchase the needs we need on Sundays for all other days of the week, there is a clear answer to this question – no. Last but not least, at the time of the epidemic, when the stores were closed on Sundays, as the nation had already proved that Sunday's shopping was not necessarily necessary, but vice versa. When we place business freedom on the scale, we are always very careful in New Slovenia. It is too often broken in Slovenia. By restricting trade on Sundays, they would contribute to the unification of society around a week than the rest day and allow more than 100,000 people in society closest to them. When we weigh this family value with business freedom of trade until Sunday’s operation, however, the weight leans on the side of the family’s values. The family is the foundation on which our society is built. And only if this foundation is solid will the Slovenian society and the Slovenian economy be able to operate in the long term. Members of New Slovenia will therefore be supported by the draft law at first reading. However, we want as much social dialogue as possible in further procedures and given the importance of the law, including the inclusion of the Economic and Social Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Before that, I give the floor to the proposaler, Luka Mesec. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Look, I already warned you about one thing this morning, and I'm gonna do it again. We have rules in the National Assembly. We have rules of procedure, but we also have instructions that we received at the beginning of the epidemic. And we all have to stick to those rules. Mr Vice-President, I don't know why some Members have to wear masks, but others don't have to. I don't know if we're going to endanger our public health and public health in this room. And I am very concerned and sad that, for example, Member Violeta Tomić is without a mask at the meetings, laughing happily, not using it, but knowing that she has to. On March 20, she wrote about how difficult it is to work in the National Assembly without a mask. Jansa didn't provide them. You have this posted on Facebook. [[advertising from the hall]] It's an announcement. I just saw it. And all the time, you're out of masks. I don't know if you're feeling more comfortable, whether it's nice or easy, I don't know why we have to stick to one rule, but the other one doesn't. [[…]] We have one consciousness and we follow the rules, and some of you throw the masks down, even protest that you don't wear them. That's what we saw yesterday. Some experts even walked around without masks. Let's stick to the rules, please, but no offense, I don't want to hurt anyone. Will we all have a mountain menu and it would be fine to be without. [[…]] It's easier to even talk. And that's what I'm going to say, a little while ago, I was on some pictures on Facebook, and we know which way those pictures came from. There were members of the coalition with masks when we discussed them, and the mask was lying down just like we were now. And you did a whole show all over Slovenia with that picture of Members who don't know how to use masks that don't have a good up, etc. And they all cut themselves and made a show out of it. Now we look every day at certain Members and Members of Parliament who joyfully violate the rules, instructions and do not use protective masks in mockery at all of us and in mockery at all citizens and citizens, teachers, all the workers they have to wear, trades and so on. You obviously don't have to do this. I do not understand this, and I ask that we follow the instructions of all for endangering our own and public health and that we respect all regulations and carry protective equipment as they dictate the rules that all Members have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you very much. You know very well that there is no basis in our rules of procedure for ordering someone if they do not respect the opinion of the professional institutions. All those who don't wear a mask, I'd like to point out that they're hurting everyone around us because wearing a mask means we're not spending some stuff in the area. However, I do not have any opportunity to act in any way, so I propose that we proceed. There's no replica. Mr Luka Mesec has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I thank everyone for the constructive debate on the views of the parliamentary groups. A number of arguments were heard both for closure and against. In fact, I would like to respond mainly to those who have the opposite opinion from the proposer who express concerns about the closing-off law on Sundays. First, freedom was exposed – the freedom of trade to be open on Sundays, the freedom of consumers to spend on Sundays and so on. I would like to stress here something that Member Polnar said at the beginning of his debate. The labour movement had already set itself 140 years ago as one of its main goals to ensure the inalienable right to leisure time. And today, in the 21st century, we are sliding back to the beginning of this movement. If in the 19th century people worked after 10, 12, even 14 hours a day, and in the 20th century after the success of the labour movement was arranged by an 8-hour worker, it is 8 hours of work, 8 hours of leisure and 8 hours of rest, we are now getting closer to a system where we would work from Friday to Christmas, where working hours have become flexible both during the week and during the weekend, where the right to rest is virtually gone in some professions. Here, I would like to oppose this freedom of capital after our time. I don't think a man who's so violated, and for what it's unnecessary, the right to free time, can really enjoy freedom. As we talk today about closing trade, keep in mind, above all, that we want to ensure the freedom of employees in this activity, which I must stress needlessly, to work on Sundays. Why unnecessary? In the NSI Group of Members, they have pointed to urgent and urgent activities, which I think is also an important solution. It was mentioned, say, whether we would then discuss that nurses no longer work on Sundays. Nurses, brothers, doctors and doctors should work on Sundays because patients should also be provided at that time. Patients can't go on Sunday vacation and say, "We're not sick on Sunday," but they also need care then. While consumers we buy in stores, we can place our consumption on the rest of the day. And I don't speak hypothetically, and so do experiences from other countries. In Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Hungary and so on, consumption is no less, and people on Sundays are not hungry because the stores would be closed on Sundays. If you can't go to the store on Sunday, it doesn't mean you won't have lunch then, but it means you'll buy food on Friday or Saturday. So trade on Sundays is not a necessary activity, I would like to stress that. It's quite different from health care. Economic factors were then exposed. The Chamber of Commerce points to a 10% drop in traffic and the loss of as many as 20,000 out of 110 000 jobs. Here I would like to draw first attention to the place of declaration. The Chamber of Commerce is the Chamber of Trade Owners, which says those who want to open their stores on Sundays. On the other hand, we have trade unions with opposite views. And not just trade unions, one question has emerged that unions are on their own initiative, because we are taking the union initiative, the union has originally given the trade closure initiative if the unions have checked it during their membership. Here, let me show you, they did a survey where shopkeepers asked: “Are you in favour of closing stores on Sundays, even if monthly earnings would therefore be reduced?” Weeks are better paid. The answer was 95% yes and only 5% no. It is said that employees in shops, regardless of whether they responded from retail, textiles, furniture, sports equipment, or whether those who work in food shops were responsible, all responded quite unanimously that they wanted Sunday as a day off, that they preferred Sunday off as a Sunday allowance for Sunday work. Thus, employees are strongly on this side and have also made it clear in their views that they are not afraid of losing their jobs. According to their estimates in many stores in Slovenia, employees are missing, people have to work overtime on Sundays or write a Sunday’s work in overtime, and they also mess with various holiday workers, foreign workers and so on. So these estimates that 20,000 jobs of 110 000 in commercial activities will disappear are too much, or I'll say something out of the vine. Similarly, there is a strong argument from the vine that the turnover will fall by 10%. If we compare ourselves with traffic in Austria, Switzerland, Germany and so on, we can see that there is no significantly smaller sales there than we do. People will adapt their consumer habits very quickly and will distribute their consumption over the remaining 6 days per week. In short, I repeat, Sunday is totally unnecessary for business. I don't understand the Chamber of Commerce either, because there's something else we need to know. All employees and managers of individual shops will tell you that on Sundays traffic is the smallest. On Sundays, sales, we were told, between 5% and 10% of weekly traffic, were closer to 5 than 10. And many shops are open on Sundays only because their competitor is open. If I cariculate, if Mercator is open in a quarter or in a place, it will also be open that Spar would not lose its permanent customers with a loyalty card, so that they would not then go to Mercator and maybe, I don't know, find that there is a better choice or a better offer or that prices are more favourable or that, I don't know, a weekend coupon is worth it and so on. Just because they build on the loyalty of consumers and because they do not want to lose customers to competitors who are open on Sundays, they also open on Sundays. And so we now have the belief that virtually all stores are open on Sundays, despite the fact that the will at the 2003 referendum was clear and that we have 95% of the employees who work on Sundays who do not want to. Then there were some questions about exceptions. I'd like to say two things here. First of all, we gave an exception. Exceptions are petrol services because, under the Road Safety Act, we need to have open petrol services so that drivers can provide both themselves and their vehicles with supplies. That's why we can't shut this thing down on Sundays. We will leave open shops near hospitals for the care of patients and health personnel who work at that time. We'll leave the airport stores open so that passengers can buy supplies for the trip or take care of them when they get out of the way. However, we are also prepared to discuss the other exceptions below. But I'd like to say this. In 2003, when Nova Slovenije proposed the law that was passed, it was stipulated that open shops could be up to a square of 80 square metres. This thing went to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court ruled that this is a very arbitrary criterion: 80 square meters yes and 81 square meters no. So we have the problem of equal treatment, the problem of constitutionality of such a provision. The Constitutional Court has ruled that such a restriction is too arbitrary to be consistent with the constitutional principle, but that only closing trade on Sundays certainly has a basis in the constitution, since property has to provide social function after the constitution. What I'm trying to say is that we're willing to talk about exceptions, but you have to keep an eye on the fact that we can't repeat the 2003 story, that if we arbitrarily put some square into which the trading venues can open, we'll basically repeat the story that we saw back then. Such a restriction is unconstitutional due to unequal treatment. When we talk about exceptions, I just want to warn you in advance, keep an eye on this ruling of the Constitutional Court of that year. And the last thing. There have been calls to the Economic and Social Council. We have absolutely no problems in this regard as proposing. As an opposition party, we are not partners in the Economic and Social Council, so we simply put the law into the parliamentary procedure. In recent months, however, the Economic and Social Council has changed its rules of procedure, which now provides that the Economic and Social Council can also treat opposition reasons perfectly when they are in Parliament. And we now have time between today if the law in the first reading is voted and during the June session that this debate is being held in the Economic and Social Council and that an opinion is being drawn up there. With this, we have no problems and the adoption of legislation today in no way impedes the treatment of the Economic and Social Council. More to the contrary, as far as we are concerned, we can hold this debate immediately next week and we are also ready to present the matter there. So much for an answer. If you have any other comments, I am ready to respond, but, as I say, I thank you for the constructiveness and I am counting on us to take this step today in order to ensure free time for people who need to work needlessly on Sundays.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Zajc, Secretary of State, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Maybe for a while. When adopting and deciding on this law, it is wise to define two time periods which are important for how to decide in such a case. The first period is 2003 or shortly before this referendum was carried out. It's probably important to shed some light on why the referendum ever occurred. At the time, the problem was that the employees, i.e. the unions and traders, could not agree on an additional payment or a higher payment for Sunday’s work. It was 50% back then. This referendum was essentially due to the fact that no agreement had been reached at that time. Today we know that the agreement is different, that for Sunday's work it is 100% higher than the pay and for holidays 250%. The second thing that needs to be taken into account in this referendum is, of course, a referendum question. If this referendum decision is used for the basis and for one of the main arguments today, then this law will, if you let it go today and as I have heard the opinions of the members of the groups, you will, then not only should this referendum issue be taken into account, if, of course, this referendum is one of the main reasons for the adoption of this law. However, the referendum question was whether you support the opening of trade on Sundays for a maximum of ten weeks or the opening of trade within a maximum of ten weeks, which means that you will still have to add weeks if you go to this referendum issue. But the second time-table, which is important, is the current time-table. We are working hard at this point to prepare as a government measures to lose as many people as possible to raise consumption. We know that consumption has fallen, jobs are at risk, and despite good measures, the number of unemployed has increased. This is because we had to shut down our activities by decree. We had to lock them up to protect their health. Yesterday and this night, a meeting was held where it was evident to the government that poor measures had been taken, that the number of unemployed had increased, that we did not think of students who, in order to be able to study, had to do student work, and we, of course, prevented them from doing so by government decrees. Today, however, we are talking about not being a government, but Parliament is saying that we will have a certain part of the economy, that is, trade, closed on Sundays, knowing that despite the measures we are taking due to the consequences of the co-vide, we will receive forgiveness, and we will not be able to do without it. In doing so, we are taking additional action to keep our trade closed on Sundays. The logical consequence will be that there will be fewer employees, because one day you must have an object less open. We are talking about problems in tourism, how to restart it, and we are shutting down all trades, except on petrol services, some exceptions such as hospitals, as has been said now. This means that when this law goes its way, you will accept numerous exceptions. And where we're going to draw all these exceptions, it's gonna be a tough question. Where, as a country, we will then stop, because the second argument is the right to family life, which the government of course supports, the right to rest, the right to work on Sundays and holidays, to pay extra. The government supports this, and this was agreed by trade unions and employers in 2018. This agreement is still in force – not more than two weeks per month, not more than 20 per year, additionally paid for work on Sundays and holidays. Now we will clear this agreement, we will not recognise it, and we will overrun it, even if it is still in force by 2022, and that will not be the case at the time when we will also be witnesses of forgiveness. However, further consideration will have to be given to how this law will then definitively change, what exceptions we will put in and where we will stop in these exceptions. The next question is whether we should leave a free economic initiative. If it isn't, then we'll probably crush another emergency activity. It may not be necessary for us to go to the inn on Sunday for lunch and so on. The question is, where do we stop? The government's position is that at a time when we are in such a critical period, when we are facing a very difficult period, when many jobs will still be lost, we do not take measures that will also lead to additional forgiveness. What this number will be, I agree that this is an assessment and we will see what it will be like, but the logical consequence is that there will be forgiveness. We are trying to encourage consumption, on the other hand we will reduce it here and ultimately this will result in the unemployed. We do not want to do this right now, and we also have a hard time affording ourselves, so I expect that in the further debate and further legislative process, the law will have to be complemented well, even if it wants to take into account the will in the 2003 referendum, that is 17 years ago. At that time there were 17 new generations, and our references have changed since then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The next one has the floor for the debate, Mr Edvard Paulič, and Mrs Iva Dimic is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u100	Chairman, thank you very much. The time when government measures were in force and trade was closed on Sundays has shown that consumers can adapt and that Sunday's trade visit is not necessarily necessary. Since the general debate on the law is only supposed to present some insight into the proposed social regulation, I would like to present at the outset some aspects which, in my opinion, will have a significant impact on whether or not the legal amendment will be adopted. To begin with, let me point out the fact that economic experts operate. According to statistics, the population uses around 70% of the available income to buy different goods. While this share is slightly increased by the rise in the standard of the population, in principle the bulk of commercial purchases remains constant, meaning that the share of purchases is not excessively linked to the number of days when trade is open. The latter, as has already been said, at the time of the crown of the crisis, we felt just everyone when we were practically forced to adjust our shopping habits in a way that we did all our shopping during the week or Saturday. Therefore, it is clear that the sales capacity of six days per week is sufficient for the consumer and if trade were open even on Sundays, the intended consumption would probably only be distributed over all seven days per week. Scientific research on consumer behaviour also shows that the longer-term operation of trade does not change the structure of consumption and costs about the same amount of income available in trade. On the other hand, we have some shops that mainly do their business on Sundays. Here I have in mind small shops that are either located in tourist areas or with tourist attractions. This will also have to be taken into account if and when we consider the amendment of the law under individual articles, as the possible closure of such shops could be detrimental to the tourism industry. This is the first aspect I wanted to point out, and I would like to draw further attention to also the important one. The trade activity employs about 18% of employees in the Slovenian economy and the proposed legislative change must also be assessed from the point of view of employees. Even though Sunday’s work is additionally paid, many traders and merchants feel that it does not take up the time they miss with their loved ones. Their family and social life are suffering from this account. If I extend it a little bit, from a social point of view, it is certainly a loss and dissuade the family from a quality time spent. Then we have a work aspect here. In 2019, labour inspectors in the trade sector identified a number of infringements regarding working time and ensuring adequate rest and rest during work. Although this industry has taken third place in the number of infringements, it is a more worrying other information identified by the inspectors. In stores, employers require workers to register their arrival at work only at the actual start of their work or to register their departure as soon as they have completed their effective work. However, there is nowhere to take into account the time taken to prepare for work when, for example, shopkeepers fill shelves or close cash registers, they also clean up their work areas. And all this time, the worker doesn't count for an effective working time. I stress this because some have announced forgiveness as the main consequence of the possible adoption of this novel. Taking into account all these findings of the inspectors and knowing that a large number of overtime is also being done in the trade sector, perhaps even too much is the concern about the dismissal of traders and traders. But I'm afraid that's probably not the case. The Chamber of Commerce is already forecasting a surplus of labour if trade closes on Sundays and holidays, at 10%. Whether these are real predictions or not, this moment is hard to say, but this fact is certainly worth considering, even if we know that because of the so-called coronary crisis, we are facing one of the major recessions of recent times. We are already witnessing mass forgiveness for worse economic activity today, and if we were to strike another blow at the moment in terms of closing trade on Sundays and holidays, we could have a black scenario that we probably don't want. On the other hand, even the President of the Trade Workers' Union advocates closing trade on Sundays, acting as one of his key tasks is to take care of jobs. That is why I believe he does this with the majority consent of shopkeepers. If we recall from the past the dialogue that took place between employers and trade union representatives, traders and traders have never absolutely insisted on closing trade on Sundays, but they have all the time pointed out the proper evaluation of their Sunday work and the consistent respect for labour law. Today I do not want to judge whether closing trade on Sunday is the only real solution. Nor will I judge what drives us into such a consumer culture, and the fact is that the shopping centres have become a place to hang out and spend their free time. At first glance, it seems that the trend of consumer culture could also be reversed. However, if such a moment is ripe, we will see in the course of the further legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you very much. For two thousand years, Christian teaching has been talking about working on a day off. The Lord's day was called, and we call it a Sunday, and I'm glad that the Lion recognized it. There was a lot of talk about whether the stores would be closed or not on Sunday. Likewise, in 2003, when the referendum was carried out, it was never legally enforced. There have always been some decisive facts or arguments for or against. Consumerism has literally triggered the opening of trade on Sundays in recent decades. It is true that shopping habits have changed dramatically in recent decades. But why have they changed? We used to know retail stores. Small stores, family merchants who suddenly started closing down after 2000 because the purchasing power began to shift to large centers. And this also led to an increasing number of people being involved in Sunday’s work in these large shopping centers. As far as the legislation is concerned, it was certainly more written on the hands of people working on Sundays after 2017. It has recognised some rights and a slightly more paid job, but it is possible to have the right time to reflect on how to proceed – whether we will continue to allow some groups of workers to work on Sundays, or whether things will still be settled in this area. The fact is, every person needs a day of rest, that he needs a day when he can devote more time to his family, to himself, to his spirituality. On both sides, there are arguments for and against, but in view of all the efforts made by the Economic and Social Council, including all the relevant services, it is nevertheless necessary to understand that some may also need such work. I would like to point out that villages where retail stores are closed after 2000, when there is simply some change in shopping practices, people often come to larger cities on Sundays and make more purchases. These remote villages are large in Slovenia, so it is also necessary to have a measure of understanding. Perhaps it is not a real comparison with the Sunday work of others who are also employed by their nature. I'm thinking of nurses. I can't imagine they wouldn't have had a chance or we wouldn't have a chance to get that kind of care on Sundays. Of course, an appropriate payment must also be recognised for each work. Unfortunately, I can see that, mainly in commercial work, as well as in medical care, for example, for medium nurses, these recognitions and payments were often too low and still too low. I wish we could find some consensus and people would really get a fair payment for their work.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Next up, Mr. Rudi Bear, get ready. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I will support the proposed amendment or proposal to close trade, with the exception of the individual exceptions to be set, on Sundays. Not so much because of the 2003 referendum, it's been a long time. Has the mood of citizens changed since then? We haven't had another referendum yet, so we don't know. It is simply a matter of weighing the interests of employees in trade activities, between the interests of consumers and the interests of traders. When we talk about employees' interests, it's not just 100,000 people and, as a result, a better, more orderly life, but it's about 300,000 people, because it's obviously about families. Consumer interest, however, polls have been carried out several times and we can put something on them, and consumers are inclined to do so. Traders have never been fond of it, never the right time for it. In seventeen years, it was never the right time. Even at the time of the greatest conjuncture and as a result of the greatest profits, traders have never taken the initiative that now may be the time for trade to close on Sundays. They're operating on very high numbers as well. It is hard to believe that this would make the decline 10% and that as a result there would be so many and so many thousands of unemployed, but if, on the other hand, the unions, I believe that they also have some relevant data, operating with data that there are at least 7,000 people missing from trade activities. So something doesn't work out here. As it is said, if family budgets are intended for food consumption and other goods, this is a trend that has been going on for a long time and has not changed. If this family budget is intended for this purpose, then the family can also spend it in six days, so it does not take seven days. Finally, at the time of the coronary crisis, however, we all got used to living differently together relatively quickly, and we were able to change our consumer habits very quickly. Above all, we're used to buying what we need. This can also be done within less than seven days of the week. And we got some sense, a different view of people who were working and exposing themselves in these times of coronaryism, we were more sensitive to them, and we finally applauded the merchants and merchants, because they were exposed at the time of the coronation for us and let us give this effort and this sacrifice of theirs also in the future. We can go to them in such a way that we listen to their wishes. And this desire of theirs is in the vast majority that weeks are free for them. In fact, it is also a look at the reviving of tourism when we want to go to as many tourist destinations as possible throughout Slovenia at the time of the biggest fall in tourism, a domestic guest. We also give them the vouchers, and it is probably not our intention to travel them to the famous tourist destinations of the past, these are shopping centers in Slovenia. So, the intensity of reviving tourism is definitely somewhere else. If I finish. We are not tied to those 10 work weeks off on the basis of the 2003 referendum. This referendum was not legislative that we should now follow this. The intention of this proposal is different, with all the appropriate exceptions that will be included.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The next one is Dr. Franz Duck, get ready, mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Because I'm far enough away from the government and from the right-wing coalition, I'm not going to infect them, and I'm going to be without a mask. If I were a colleague of Doblekar's, I'd give it to myself. For the intro of three starting points. From the point of view of the Social Democrats, you can also understand that we are a party that cultivates internal democracy, even a little bit of a different view on this topic. I'll write my own view, because I have no other head than my own to think about. The first ideological position, if you want, is that the value is that each of us who works is also a priest working – right, colleagues and New Slovenia? – priest, priest, monk, nun, entitled to 36 hours of fun or to say in the language of the Slovenian right, up to 36 hours of continuous work. That's the law, my friend Kima, across the border, we both live near Austria. Another starting point, everyone who works is entitled to a chance of decent survival. Even those who once worked for the past work, as well as those who are preparing to be part of the active population. This on the level of wages means, I've said this a number of times, methodologically correctly calculated minimum cost of living plus 20%. That's a minimum. That's a good 800 euros net salary. The minimum wage should be equal to the basic salary from which the allowances are then counted. The third starting point, with all due respect to everyone working in this sector, cannot be a serious economy of one third of the stock. This is also the information that will be where we, I hope, have come from in the last 30 years. 34, 36% is much too much. Now I don't have anyone here from MGRT. The third term is the same team on MGRT. The rest room should reduce this to at least 27% in six years, but it is not. Why, I'll get to it. Even if it weren't for a sociologist who was also involved in consumer society, I would know that what we call free time today is over. If you haven't read Engels, which some of us are also part of the study literature, the position of the working class in England, you may have read at least Dickens or watched some kind of film. You know, this Slovenian elementary school literature is just a “breathing” fight on an oatmeal. What the majority of Slovenian rights say is then a little bit at the crossroads, which is said by most former LDS derivatives, so-called Slovenian liberals, which unfortunately is also written by the Chamber of Commerce, which rotates a little bit less, is a little bit too similar to Engels' scribes: man is sausage, let's cut it. Free time was originally intended for some free regeneration of man to work, then we come here with a boomerian generation after World War II or, if you want, a little later in Yugoslavia, and I'm probably the first consumer generation of the former old regime, from there they come to us and Cockta, Vegeta and Pelinkovec, if you want. Then there's actually a stowaway coming along like that. What this government is saying and what this government is arguing, and which is also argued by the trade association, is not exactly a complaint to me, I am also appalled. This is a non-thinking in the 21st century. Time is money, but self-thinking societies think: how I will squeeze as much money as possible. But our basic economic logic will be: you will work as long as possible because we are stupid and do not know how to make the same amount of money in the short term. Comrade Zajc, Zeko, a former fellow Member is not in there now, but he literally put it. Some thinking society, which, except in politics, unfortunately, I find for the sixth year, we are mainly in Slovenia, should "wait what we will do to earn the same money or even more in less time". And even through this optics, yes, the economic development and technological development of Slovenia have been stalls for the past 30 years. Now Ikea's coming, let's have an orgasm. I hate Ikea, I have a home, I admit, once I'm big, I won't have one. At the level of Slovenia, Ikeo could think of something different. What we were taught by coronaryism taught us that life can be radically different. It doesn't hurt if you have to think when you go to the barn. Thinking about it doesn't hurt at all. Of course, the sociologists, who took this seriously, know that there are two things in this so-called shopping. One is shopping as an emergency, many is torment, the other is shopping as a Joy, pleasure. Now I don't want to be a sexist, but, you know, with rare exceptions, at least in my generation, because you were in love with someone, but on Sunday you were just, sorry Meira, going shopping and acting like it's fun for you, "yes dear". No, it's not my pleasure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u107	I'll give it procedurally because I don't like shopping.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u108	Yeah, come on. I'd drink mash and watch football. This too needs to be separated and exceptions must be seen through this emergency. Yeah, I agree with Ivy that somehow we infrastructure to the countryside are really acting terrible. We're gonna close something, and someone else is gonna go open the ATM. That is also how this infrastructure should be thought. I'm part of this generation when I had to get on a bike and drive you to Novak on Prelok next door, if anything's gone. Then, of course, we run into a story, as was well told in our position, that we have guaranteed this leisure time, which is increasingly valuable through pennies, through shopping – someone has to work. Of course, we have some kind of solidarity infrastructure that has to work at any time, the basis of security, protection, health care, firefighters, a whole series of municipal infrastructures for on-call people. Today we are no longer used to it, and I have experienced it as a child, that after two days we were out of our minds. Some anarchists want to overthrow this government, instead of cycling Janez Janša, disable three days of Twitter and the government will fall, just like that. Then we have a whole series, which is very nice, I can say, in our internal debates, warned Sona, the so-called process technologies that have to take place. He just spent his life in front of political glassworks. You can't shut the stove down there. You can't turn it off. The brewery is also related, because when beer boils, beer boils, you won't stop the process. Total agriculture, you have to plan a little time there, too. Don't let Miha blame me. When those pubes started to go to the agrodivision, I was quiet for the first year. I laughed on my own. At first, she was a pissing Zofka, and they planted it. Dear God, there's no planting Zofko on piss. It's experience, it's not to laugh. You don't know what you're laughing at, Jani. If you plant a third of the field on the same day anything, Beznik's onion, you'll have a problem selling it at some point, and it'll rot you. Chemistry, pharmaceuticals, we have a whole series of activities that are processive, so, sorry God, you can't take this job away. This should be addressed in some way, too. There too are parents, young mothers, and so on, that I will not fall into cheap political debate. My friend Prevc from New Slovenia, a very fine man, said we had a nice morning coffee reunion around Sunday. Even if I put aside that we are a secular society, and I understand that this is part of the political spectrum, I have nothing to do with it, I also consider myself a Christian Democrat, but, you know, we live in the 21st century. Constitutional parliamentary democracy is a tool that was made precisely because we realized that we are not all in the same boat and we cannot be united around everything. The 90 of us are here to open up conflicts and set up a system so that we can live in diversity. Today I had some battle over Facebook, because now everyone is beating these Modrians over a lady, a European MEP. [[Incomprehensible]] If I don't listen to Modrian, I have nothing against the Modrians. I'm basically cool with the Modrians, and I'm cool with Tanja Žagar, and I don't listen to her. They're doing their music. Someone's using their time off like that. I prefer Kajo Draksler to listen, which may not be the most loving type of jazz, we go to a concert, we pay each other, during the free time they fill the cash registers. Great. But this is where we come up with one thing. Someone said, "family, quality, free time." You need time to use quality free time, but you need something else — that's the story with these sheep. - You need money, too. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology doesn't mean how we get our money to go to the stable. We should think about how our minimum wage will be over 900 euros. I don't know, they don't cut their veins in Austria because they have closed stores on Sundays, but they have some higher quality of life than we do. Or there is a free economic initiative. There are some countries that are thus more liberal, liberally stronger, and in fact these regimes are in place. Secretary of State Zajc also spoke about raising consumption. I agree with that in principle, but at least two matters need to be asked when raising consumption. If we want to raise consumption, we need money, whether we owe ourselves or have some real pennies, the right hand is very fond of pulling a metaphor, whether it's pulling onto a car or dragging everything onto the family. There are also very diverse families. We all who listened to the sociology of the family at Tanja Reiner know that there were also very diverse single - parent families in pre - modern societies. LGBT was not created as a set of Lefts, as Grims thinks, but it also has a long culture and tradition. In short, we need some pennies where we can find the pennies. And then we have to ask ourselves, and here it goes, if you want, and if you want, unlike the GDP and the NNP, I won't go too far into the professor's water, spending someone or anything. We're at some stage, I graduated with some award-winning diploma assignment about, you won't believe, territorial identities at a time of globalisation. I was there in the first half of the 1990s dealing with this, the right hand would say how to be Slovenians and the Slovenians at the time of globalisation. Now we're going to have a phase triggered by this crown, not by deglobalisation, but by reglobalisation. As an export economy, we cannot have so much domestic consumption. One is America, the other is the Netherlands, the third is Slovenia. Of course, we need to think about how we are going to do some more smart things, or as that rewarder from the firm of Lenda, my colleague Josko would know which company it was, now it was out of my mind, he said, "know what, it is high time we started working with less hands." This does not mean underestimating manual skills, but manual skills can be used — I personally do not have much, regrettably — for you to do something that you will sell for cents in ten hours or to do something that you will sell for euros if I put it that way. With this increase in consumption, I think that in these crowns of law we should think of the beyond slowly if I put it that way. We're going to flood a few billion, and we're not going to save the economy in half. First, we should go to the politics of some domestic spending, or some polls show that during this crown lockdown more domestic products were bought, which I'm actually glad, but you also need to produce this. We already had the problem of primary schools and kindergartens providing so much local production. How will you guarantee it if you don't have it? Then we have the fact that this retail trade is similar to tourism in our country. This is some kind of activity where income is really the lowest. That's a fact. I didn't make it up. It's not the electric sector. It's not the financial advice. And now some serious country, including the Chamber of Economics, should also think, okay, great, let's cut this "stacuniation" in the medium term, there will indeed be 20,000 people out of work, and this is the responsibility of society and politics, whose sectors of the economy we will develop, that these people will live better with any additional education in order to have better wages. That would be our goal. What MGRT says, which is the SMC, obviously, if I understand it, the government is against, the SDS, and the NSI are against, and the SMC is against, but DeSUS is indecisively always by its conscience something “between”. That's so small, okay. Good. Let's just say I'm not going to comment on that. But what SMC's mouth in particular says is what the SMC's mouth says under the SMC is clearly a model of economic development, so that we should raise the stallions to at least 40% of our economy's composition. You know, young people with little brains are gonna leave this country. Do you know where one of America's largest labour stations is, where they're changing the fastest? I've been reading the data in the mid-'90s, and I'm all freaked out. Over 400% a year, in McDonald's. That's some slave rumbling. You do have the famous book of sociologist Ritzer The McDonaldization of the Society. Through what we call neoliberalism on the left hand side, we have also evaluated mastery. We've also somehow degraded a number of professions if I'm using a little bit of the terminology of the sociology of work. Do you know where it is in the European Union they have the most regulated professions? Germany. Of course, they also have strong unions. We have now listened through Slovenian liberals to give as much degrade as possible. This has also happened with the trade profession. You used to fly in, there was a stall in Miklošič, you could've been such a technical thumpering sociologist, you came in, there were two gentlemen in corners, you told me what you wanted, you never gave me the wrong screwdriver or queen, and I'm not exactly a machine technician or anything. Especially in some of these technical stores. You come to Baumax today, and I want something, and the first person you run into -- and I don't judge these people, but these people are trying to survive -- is the most common answer, "I'm not from this department, I don't know that or I don't know that." I'd like less stac, better income for everyone, and that's that, of course, we can't go back, I'm not nostalgic, but that in these stalls also people who are well-paid, because they're kind of a little more expert in certain areas. I don't want to go into some stuff when these foreign traders broke into our house, when I started getting the first information, when traders have menstrual problems, that they have to, I don't know, have so much in their hair that they can go to the bathroom four times or three times in eight hours, or else only twice. You know, that's something a work inspector should be crazy about. When I was still in Levica, I argued for five, six years that we should increase the number of people on this inspectorate, and basically you were against it somehow. If we're looking at these big shopping centers, we're mostly doing everything ourselves. You're gonna have to pick that one yourself. You're gonna have to go to that cashier's office all by yourself. And who pays me for it? Things need to be changed a little bit more deeply. I'm too young to be nostalgic about the old system, but we fell into a society where time off became expensive. It's the price of free time. If you're a two-member family in Maribor, let's just say my kids won't be there when I go up to the hill, we'll shake hands with a gondola for Pohorje. This is for the 12-euro family. Or go to the Maribor cottage or to Areh, or eat a little bit, or go downstairs, and go to the Pohorje cafe for ice cream, because it's very good that I do a little commercial, Rajić can confirm, because he lives nearby. Yeah, wait, that's 60 euros. I don't know if it's possible for those of you who work in the stables these days to afford it every week with their kids, even if they have Sunday off. Beyond this populism, if we move a little bit further, but today we were talking about DUTB, the problem of Slovenia is, as I would say, the favourite Slovenian economist, now he has retired, Franček Drenovac – that we have at least 15 years if not 20 years forgotten to think of some appropriate developmental economic model. And now this crisis is really going to be such a stressful test for us at the level of many areas of the economy. Personally, I would prefer to see that some of the billions that we are about to give – of course, because we have to somehow generate consumption, now in crises we are all Keynesians, we want or we don't want – giving ourselves a little bit more thoughtfully in the direction of a different economy. I would be most happy if, 10 years later, we had a quarter less people working in the stands, and this quarter of people would have other and different jobs and more paid jobs and less stressful jobs and jobs that they would respect more. I mean, these rats are quite a broken-down system of half-marriage, from how many times you can go to the bathroom, how many times you can't. Now I'm not going to mention one foreign chain that's closest to me when I go to the stall, and I'm going to say, "Hey, wait, stop, stop, I'm human." And you don't give a pig that kind of food either. That's where he throws those things because some kind of system is forced. And these stories are "the trade of the month", each other, third, fifth. You know, I call it microfascism. This was planned there in the '50s, '60s, on the ground 30 years across the meadow. We should talk about these things. Now some system exception, there's no need to detect hot water. What is called tourism in a broader sense has a different logic of action. They need free time, we need money to go to tourism. As a result, the ostrich is closed on Monday or Tuesday, museums make Sundays, although sometimes a man who would like to go to a museum has a bit of a haircut with his ears, because we are not oriented in this direction. Okay, it's getting better, I admit. More recently, museums in smaller places where they have to do more than museums in the capital. But I know this thing so much, I can call it that. That I won't be too long. I could talk for a while. Our key problem is the model of economic development, which has led us to one third of the stock, which is mostly in foreign ownership. Then shift leaders, executives, as they are called, are often forced to use the system’s violence against subordinates through the system of these shopping centers. You have the architecture of shopping malls. What is the center of Ljubljana? Ljubljana's center has been BTC for a long time, and you have, let's figure out the streets, let's make it a place, that's an experience. Okay, whether I agree with that now or not, let's just let it stand. I know I won't turn back my time, but my Sunday cathedral is if you can walk from the Three Kings to the Black Lake, not Europak. But okay, I'm not gonna moralize here. But we have the eggs to get the 15th government's mandate-holder, which I hope we can get to him as soon as possible, or the mandate-holder, and he says, "But you know what, my basic programme is to put the stock at 25% in the structure of our economy in two mandates." And we have the media that will understand that, and they'll say, hey, great, that's the kind of Chaferin we want, even if it's not Cheferin. That's what we need, gentlemen. And he'll read the Constitution sometime. After six years, I have a fill-up that even the vast majority of you have not read the Constitution here. That's where you put your hand in the office. We are a constitutional democracy, we must give people a decent life. Not to mention how in this system, we get burned people in 50 years. Some terrible information is also, here I am nearing the end of this, we will really live 80 or some years, but in Slovenia the years of healthy life end there between the ages of 57 and 58. That's what we should think about when we think about stalls. I'm a man with a lot of allergies, and I don't walk around these shoppers either, but I'm not a man of conspiracy theory who puts in those ventilation systems so many scents that I've been hit for half an hour like putting a bag of glue on my head. Maybe we should talk about that, too. It's also someone who needs to be there. You've been breathing that synthetic shit for days and days - it's not a joke, young fellow. You're listening to some music that's filling you up, and it's likely that the dealer would need some kind of mask to do this synthetic -- I'll say, because I've got the end of my tongue -- shit doesn't breathe a hitchhiker or some music that you're rollin'. But you know, it's also some kind of violence. A man can handle a lot of things, but somewhere there's a limit. Let's go talk about it. Then we could also talk when you have bad days, but they have so much to do in the post office or even in the tanks when they have, I don't know, a week of chewing gum or whatever, and they have to sell so much if they don't sell it, and then they have to make a fictional purchase with each other. You still don't deserve anything, you work like a black cattle saint and a Friday, and then you have to buy knives because we're obsessed with showing you there won't be someone staring you in the head tomorrow. Let's talk about it. Nothing this crazy Duck has thought of, it's all some state of life we have, a state of life, a state of progress, after all, because it's our job to take care of people's health by the constitution. It's all a barn. And that this barn of ours is what it is, it's the political stand we've been watching for 30 years. And if we're going to honor the stand, we have to respect the political stand first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Ducky. The next one is mag. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. The proposal offered by this law is, above all, a populist move for me. It seems to me that I can very much defend this through points where I will point out what this law does not refer to. I don't think it's the trade's desire to make this day work because it's more paid and it suits them that the other or the other two days are no burden. Nor is it taken into account the number of unemployed who would arise if this measure were to enter into force. I came from a simple calculation of the working hours of trade itself, when they were open and when they were not open on Sundays, to a number of reductions of 9% of the number of working hours. Thus, we can expect that out of the 110 thousand people who worked in stores, there would be 10,000 people who would lose their jobs or face them as a threat. This law is also not taken into account that it is customary to buy on Sundays and that this is an inseparable right not to free time of use, but to distribute free smoke and that all these stores are already built and that all those refrigerators that are in stores are also included at a time when they are closed. There are a large number of people who have the need to use these stores and thus to prevent them from doing so. The next thing that I find problematic and would like to point out this is a monopoly that Levica somehow places in the hands of petrol services. All of you who have ever bought anything other than petrol or diesel at a gas station have found that everything is for about 30%, 40% more expensive than in the store where you usually buy. When you stop occasionally in Ljubljana on the Danube Road at a gas station on Sundays at a time, if you remember when the shops were closed, the species were abnormal. You pumped the fuel, say, and then you waited another 10, 15 minutes to get in line to pay for it. Not to mention, apart from these types, that we also have a very eloquent comparison of the salaries of people working on petrol services, of course, I do, but compared to traders and traders in stores, there is no reason for us to do this now in some way and take it. With this loss of jobs that would happen, we must be aware that we are at a time when the labour market is facing serious challenges. In this sense, it is totally unacceptable for me and my colleagues. Nor would I believe so easily the interpretation of this survey, Luke mentioned that the people questioned answered that they would not work on Sundays, because for this there are mermaids, in fact, other than polls that are not mermaids at all, but there are stakeholders, these are the people who work there, and also those who offer them this work. I think it is the right way for unions and employers to agree on how this division and organisation would be carried out. The next, which is very questionable and really wrong, is the argument of spending free time because the state must not have such disciplinary measures to determine to people how it will create a time space for them to spend their working hours. It's absolutely devastating for me that a closed store brings my family back to life. This is something that we must oppose in every way and do not want to live in a society in which we can regulate our relationship in this way. The Left, as it does, idealizes most of its approaches, promises a more just life, of course from the comfort of this chair of the opposition, and in this idealization forgets that it has had the opportunity to take over any resort in the previous government and to do something concrete. So I think she kind of fell on the whole line here before this meltdown and the responsibility, because it's some personal freedom and personal choice. We are a party to the modern centre, and we believe that if the country intervenes, it should interfere rationally with our lives and with respect for the freedoms we have already defined. It is not a solution to enable the monopoly of one and to oppress the majority of others. And that is what this law is talking about, or trying to do. However, if this law were to go forward with further consideration, I think it is necessary to think about the very important extension of the selection to tourist centres, ski centres, camps, resorts, cultural historical centres and I would make every effort to ensure the openness of one megamarket to this population unit to a certain number of populations. So it bothers me that the proposal of this law has been set up as some concern for the listener, if you, we are concerned that everything you need, but you are calm on Saturday, and the consequences do not concern us. But we'll leave it to the coalition, the government and all of you to deal with them. Because, and for the above, and for the end, when those who have lost their jobs in the store will be the first to come to support them today. That is why I do not approve of this indulgence, nor do I give my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the following word, Mr Blaž Pavlin is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Vice President. We are now running again a new round of trade discussions: to close or not to close trade. Those who make such a proposal are usually counting that the elections are close and that a few electoral votes are needed. Remember, the previous term was done by Mr Chuš, who was confident that this would open the door for him to the next term. However, the fact is that those whom I have heard today in their views to support this proposal have not yet supported this in their previous mandate. But it's interesting how we came to this discussion. I must say that today I am listening to even some kind of interesting explanation of how Crown Time has shown that we are accustomed to living in closed stores. Please, by this logic, we could explain that we have become accustomed to moving from congregation to congregation, that we have become accustomed to not going to our relatives, to becoming accustomed to many things. That's bullshit. That's what we're talking about. We didn't go to the store because we were avoiding them because of the disease. And we were afraid. There was a lot of fear. And that's why we didn't go to the store, and nothing else. Everything else is out of touch what we're talking about here today. But it is a fact that if you give people free choice and leave them, you decide, and what they do today, you will see that one of them likes to go to the store on Sunday. Of course, the discussion is immediately divided into two parts. That's very simple. Today, we have also heard interesting things in our views that we have heard many times and that are really about the two currents. On the one hand, we have advocates of labour rights, trade unions, as is usually the case with the Left, on the other hand, we have advocates of Christian values, who very much like to adopt a word of family values. This is then a wordplay that quickly obscures the concept of what is Christian and what is family. I would not refer too much to Christian values because of these Christian values, for example, our church even played pornography in co-ownership of cable television in Slovenian space, and this did not bother anyone. It would be too sinful for me to repeat such things. However, we have learned something from the past. The next thing I think is interesting, I will only open up the dilemmas that arise in such a discussion. Let's do it in a row. The free economic initiative is something that we have screamed the most, that should be enshrined in the constitution, and we have also been very proud of the fact that we have this in the constitution. As a liberal, I must say that I will always defend it. But, look at the fraction, we would very much like to limit and write this free economic initiative into law. You know, when we do this on one case, then there's no more excuse why we don't do it on the other case, on the third, the fourth. And very soon we will begin to wonder what a free economic initiative is. Therefore, such things need to be very careful before we interfere with such acts. The other thing is, I've been listening to you today, if you forgive me, there'll be no forgiveness. Now they're making students because they're too few, and then there'll be just enough workers to work well and so on. Now, on the one hand, either we don't need a student's job anymore, or there will be forgiveness. I'm sure of the following. They'll be pardons. I don't know, and I don't hope to predict, because I don't have a look at real numbers, but if we're listening to the Chamber of Commerce or the unions, we have different numbers. I don't particularly believe in research if it's done by the Chamber of Commerce or if it's done by the unions. These studies are not to be believed, I would rather believe research that is done independently and then I believe in the reality of data. Why am I bringing this up? Because I believe forgiveness will and will be a student's job. You know why? Because student work is cheaper and owners will rather fire expensive workers and continue to have a student job, even if the stores are closed on Sundays. Remember, working in a store is not only sitting on a cash register and selling at a counter, but, above all, in large shopping centres, is the biggest problem with filing shelves. That's what we customers find invisible. Traders work at night to fill up all the shelves. The next thing that seems very important to me is competition. How can it be established? We have trading networks that almost do not reach every other village, and they are anxious to close them because on Sundays it is their cost and burden, not the protection of workers’ rights – the kids watch them and the labour rights, they want to reduce the cost. That's why they say they're for closing down shops today. But they won't do it, as my colleague Luke Moon said, because of commercial practices. Well, that's what matters. Trade habits are in fact the customs of the buyer and are in fact the most important for trade. Once someone gets used to one store, then the blind girl will never leave her again. You slowly grind and drink and tend to this customer for up to two years. Why would a man go to the store because he does not know where the milk is and where the bread is and will spend half an hour more time – he will always go to that store where he knows exactly what shelf he is and will always take and make purchases in five minutes. Women, it's not a problem, they like to spend more time, because they usually bring more. But that's another discussion. The time it takes to talk when we close, and then we mention and say, "Exceptions are needed". Bravo, let's say exceptions. You know, we've already chewed on this discussion several times in the National Assembly. And then we're going to say that these are gas stations, and we're going to limit them to square meters, and we're going to say that these are tourist spots. But I'm warning you one more thing. Then this also applies to Ljubljana. Ljubljana has a million tourists per year at the annual level, which is more than a number of tourist destinations. Are we going to open up and make an exception for Ljubljana? Then what did we do? We will have so many exceptions that we will ridicule ourselves when we close the shops and find that we have closed the shops in the villages, but in fact they will be open everywhere else – because they are exceptions. And that's bullshit, what we're actually doing. Next thing you know, it's worth mentioning. Why are we working and interfering with a free economic initiative only in the field of trade? Why not do so elsewhere, where it is not a matter of life and where it is not necessary and necessary? Have you ever thought about printers? Is this an urgent life’s work? Will someone die if they don't print on Sunday night? But on Sunday night, rotastros are spinning full in the Slovenian space. Has anyone ever thought about printers? Why don't we go to law and go beyond the constitutional right to free economic initiative and say, "No, the printing machines should be shut down on Sunday night." There's probably too few of them. It doesn't matter. Let's get out of here. Why don't we stop all the physical therapists from working on Sundays? Why don't we stop all the pedicures? Why don't we stop all the spa centers? Why don't we stop, I'll tell a lot of things -- restaurants, pizzerias, innkeepers? Let's ban all this. I can already see the votes no, these are small family businesses, the family has made up its own mind, no, we can't, it's a free economic initiative. A bluff. It's a total bluff. Finally, we will find that there are really only two things: Christian values and working rights. And that's what we're talking about, my dears. Christian Values — None for Pizzas, No Restaurants, No Spas, No Printers, No Christian Values, or How Now? And that pains me because it's a simple depravity. If you ask the average Slovenian, and that's why the referendum – by the way, consultative, was successful, whether it was for women's workers to be careful, women's sex, not workers, workers, men's sex, because it sounds better that the workers have a Sunday off. Please, every normal person will say, "Yes, of course, why not?" I'd say I'm up for it, too, but, my dears, I know a lot of stores that deserve just that Sunday so much more that they can also give a child some extra activity. So here I agree with my colleague Trčko and many others, not to talk about stores on Sundays, let's talk about how much they get paid for this job. This is crucial, and then they will decide for themselves whether to do it or not. In the end, let me finish with one more thing. Each time we discuss this subject, trade unions and the Chamber of Commerce find that once a policy reaches a field that they regulate themselves, it is very dangerous for everyone, because it becomes a kind of precedent. Here I think and urge especially trade unions and also those who say that trade is the one that is well oiled, I would particularly warn those who have talked about it not to talk about things that they once received themselves in another area, and that in this house.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The applicant made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr Möderndorfer, this position of yours was not exactly liberal, you have been very harsh in defending economic liberalism, it is the freedom of capital. As far as political liberalism is concerned, it's just another story. You've been hinting at what? That a man is rational, he goes to the store, quote: “He knows exactly which shelf is the bread.” And the woman is frivolous, she collects and goes to the store and takes more. It's funny to listen in some cheap comedy, but as a representative of the National Assembly, a man who likes to wear a liberal badge on his jacket, and I think you need a little upgrade, a little update of his position in the 21st century. I started watching a show yesterday called The Great about Katerina the Great. That's where the story was. She had a very chauvinistic husband, King Peter, and he insisted that women were stupid, that they were meant to be fertile, not that these women knew anything. She came to him as a visionary and said: “I would like to make a school.” They also built this school because he was such a chauvinist who said, "I like to make women happy." And he built this school. Then it turned out that she had in mind a school for girls. And at that point, he had this school burned down. His answer was when she asked him why he did this: “Women are for being fruitful and not for reading.” What's the role of a woman? It has a collectible gene, it has a cost-effectiveness gene, it's also purely for cleaning, which was also detected in your debate. Of course you're going to give the replica now and you're going to say it's not true. But ask the women in this room how they feel about these markings. If I go further to this economic liberalism of yours. First of all, free choice. Your assumption is that people in this country or in society in general make a completely free choice. You're free to choose your profession if you don't like your work on Sundays, so go to another profession where you don't have to work on Sundays. If we don't want to work on Sundays, we tell our employer I don't want to work on Sundays, but for most people, it's not a case. People work for bad wages, minimum wages, for a few hundred euros a month, because it's their existential necessity, because they don't get better, and they're also forced to work when they don't want to, on Sundays, because employers tell them, and often don't get an extra, but they do overtime. So, once again, you can read the survey and say you don't believe the union, but you can go to Maxa and ask the cashiers and cashiers if you want to work on Sunday. I've never met a salesman who told me he wanted to work on Sundays. Usually the answer was: “I have to work on Sunday.” There's another half of liberalism in here again. In short, part of the population is delaying free choice. They don't have a choice. They work from scratch at the time. When you say it's completely arbitrary now. If the stores don't work on Sundays, then why don't we turn off something else that I know, bars, sleeps, etc. Look, the situation is the opposite of what you're describing. We're not a country that works from Friday to Christmas, seven days a week, where it would be normal to work on Sundays. Sunday is a day off in Slovenia. For most professions, Saturday is also a day off. On Sundays, they don't work at school, they don't work at the ministry, they don't do most of the production, they don't do public administration, they don't work at parliament, nobody works on Sundays, with some exceptions. These exceptions are a matter of political discussion. The stores started working on Sunday because politics allowed them to do so. But we have a commitment to follow the will of the people. This was expressed 17 years ago, and it is also necessary to listen to people working on Sundays and to take their voice into account whether it is necessary or not. And I stress once again, there are differences between activities. The printers work on Sunday evenings to print newspapers, hostels and other activities because we have this as a form of free time, association, and this has not been done since yesterday, so it has always been. But trade in good work in Europe is closed on Sunday, and there is no need for it to be open. We are bound by 115 thousand jobs, and people can make purchases for other days without weeks, and our standard of living will not deteriorate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Möderndorfer has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u116	At different ideological points of view, I don't usually replicate, because you can't convince a person if he believes in something and also, why not, in the final stage, it's his right. But I react when I am misunderstood or when someone is even trying to frame me for something that is not by nature and by human soul. Those who know me know that I am not masculine and I never know two genders. More than that, I have done many things in my life for gender equality, which Luke will ever do. But to say to me, and even to be obvious, I showed a woman and wanted to show her as frivolous, because I didn't use those words, but it's very nice to manipulate her. Well, that's perverse Luke, and I'm not gonna let you put me in a position like this that I'm not. And I really didn't expect that from you. As far as the press is concerned. My brother is a printer and a newspaper on Sundays, and at night, you won't believe it until 2:00 a.m., and not because on Monday there's truth on the day, what kind of work, journal or any newspaper, but because they have an order and they have to take it away and because no one asks him whether he wants it, but because he has to pull it off because he's finally decided on this job. So don’t talk about things that you haven’t tasted or seen in your life, or that you don’t fantasize about, because you’re going to have to learn something else in your life, and sometimes you’re going to come into the economy and do what.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u118	Jani is suddenly angry, so she's leaving the hall, but the fact is that your statement was chauvinistic, the women you described as I said, and I insist. But the rest was now a simple ad hominem attack on the proposer, and I think without any basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Blaž Pavlin has the following word, Mr Igor Pecek is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. The issue has been dealt with in the Slovenian space for a long time, both with numerous legal proposals in the National Assembly, public debates, decisions in the Constitutional Court as well as with the decision of citizens of Slovenia at the previous legislative referendum in 2003, when with almost 60% support citizens decided that trade should be closed on Sunday. New Slovenia has always advocated the right of employees to trade until Sunday rest. And as Christian Democrats we are advocates of the socio-market economy, we are aware that in the legal regulation of this area we must weigh between interventions at a free economic initiative and business freedom to decide freely on our operating time, and on the right of Sunday's rest of traders and traders, and the possibility of spending Sunday with their loved ones. The legal setting of trading hours on Sundays in our premises or in neighbouring countries is not unusual. Countries such as Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Belgium determine the closure of trade on Sundays in one way or another. And I think that these are countries that have a strong free economic initiative and have probably decided, for some substantial reason, to have trade closed on Sundays. It would, of course, be ideal if, within the framework of existing legislation, the social partners could agree on each other in the context of social dialogue. I estimate that, in such exceptional cases, the country must cut into the relationship between the social partners in such a way as to protect the weakest, and that in this case they are undoubtedly employees, especially sellers and sellers, as well as all others, such as security guards, hairdressers and waitresses, and waiters, who make sure that these large shopping centres operate smoothly on Sunday. Every employee needs at least one day of rest and quality time spent together with their family or loved ones, and I think it is definitely Sunday that most people are free on Sunday. Modern principles of family and professional coordination encourage both employers and workers to improve the quality of life. I am also sure that we will adapt very quickly to the new situation and will make the necessary purchases in the rest of the day. So I don't believe that closing trades on Sunday is going to lead to a major drop in sales. I also think that trade centres are ahead of one major challenge, how to increase sales in their stores. Here I think they're going to have to adapt more to the fallout that online purchases will bring, rather than closing trades on Sunday. I will support the proposed law, but I expect from the proposer and from all the social partners to reach agreement in the dialogue on the solutions proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Peček has the next word, and Mrs Monika Gregorčič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the past, we have dealt with whether closing trade on Sundays makes sense or not. In particular, I think it is good that we are actually discussing this subject during the period in which we are today. We know about the government's actions, we know about the reasons, we also know that the stores are closed on Sundays. The first question, which has already been raised by my colleagues, is whether we have really adapted to this with understanding, as we have, for example, adapted with the understanding that we should not have moved from the congregation to the congregation, or whether at the end of Sunday purchases represent some added value and at the same time a higher quality of life. But I'm going to leave this effect of consumer comfort, because this second thing I'm going to say here is more important to me. The question is, what is the economic and social dimension of this change? There is no need to stress in particular at this point that the situation in which we are today is particularly specific. We know that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has declared the outbreak of the new coronavirus 12. 3. With a measure aimed at combating further proliferation, it adopted a measure which has strongly affected the retail sector. The total number of companies that were not allowed to operate is at least one month, if we say so from 16 March onwards, over 8 000. According to official statistics, the population uses around 70% of the available income to buy different goods in trade. This is a very important information. We may not be aware of it. Dr. Duck's colleague raised another problem. The fact that trade activity in Slovenia employs 18% of employees. Trade represents one third of the income in the economy. Whether we agree with this or not, whether it is good for the development of society, is another issue, but if we take the macro-economic area into account, then we should be most interested at this point. However, if, on the other hand, I follow the position that is being put forward by those directly employed in trade activities, we must agree that they have never fully insisted on closing trade on Sundays, but that their efforts have focused primarily on the correct evaluation of their Sunday work, and this is an important issue that needs to be addressed also by ensuring consistent compliance with labour law. Otherwise, I have to end up in this place, so thank you very much. But I think it'll be an opportunity to discuss [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ms Monika Gregorčič has the floor to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Vice President. A lot of things have already been said about this proposal for the new Trade Act today. I have been very interested in monitoring all the discussions so far, including the explanation of the applicant, the explanations of the views of the groups. I must say, here I will allow myself a little personal, professional assessment that some of the things that have been said also belong to the field of quasi-professional expertise. I allow myself to say this because of my own, truly long professional experience both in commercial activities and in retail and wholesale. So in practice, I know this business quite well. I would really advise a lot of caution when we talk about activities that contribute a third to the Slovenian economy of all incomes, because we need to know that our purchasing habits are different. I seriously doubt that none of those you today have claimed to support this novel have ever bought on Sunday. Such or different situations occur when purchases need to be made on Sunday. We have different life and work rhythms, so it would be right to take into account that we are different people. This is my first really well-intentioned call and proposal. As far as the proposal is concerned, closing trade on Sunday would have a negative impact on economic activity, even during the coming recession due to the coronavirus, due to this health crisis. The estimate is that up to 10% of the revenue from trade activities is expected to fall. On the other hand, all of you who have called or expressed your support for this law have also advocated that forgiveness should not be given to commercial activities. However, this cannot be achieved either by express wish or by order no, for forgiveness can be the result of negative economic trends, the fall in traffic, and thus the fall in profits. We know that companies are just companies and that the margin or price difference is used to cover their costs, their operating costs, including labour costs. Second threat. Of course, it is possible that purchases will not change overnight and consumer purchases will be channelled across borders. We know that stores are open in Italy on Sundays. It has also been pointed out that if this novel is to be confirmed in a second reading today, it will make sense to define a larger number of exceptions. This means that, not until Sunday’s work, operations will be justified only, for example, by petrol services, but, today it has been exposed, tourist destinations, border stores and other activities or entities will be found, which will lobby in one way or another, to pressure all decision makers to engage them and to allow them to operate on Sunday. Why? In order to be eligible for the so-called extra profits, they can be treated in an unequal manner by economic operators. From this point of view, honourable speakers, I remind you that your proposal can also be regarded as a lobbyist proposal. Lobby also in the sense that, in the basic proposal of the law, you should allow the operation of petrol services, which also deal with certain commercial activities. You only allow them, it is said, to the owners of these services, we know that there are only a few such companies in Slovenia, only by them are you allowing some extra profits. Here we must be very careful from this point of view not to get certain companies into unequal situations or to gain unfair competition. I will conclude and conclude with some conclusion, somehow it seems really interesting to me that the candidates on the left, on the extreme left-hand side of the political field, in their address to the electorate or in their solutions, at the same time, you are also collecting the same strings as the conservative part of the right political gender. That is, you also refer to traditional family values at the end of the day if you also want a religious way of life. That's a very interesting conclusion for me. It's a good thing the voters know that, too. I can't support marriage as a liberal, because, as we say, people are different, let us all make decisions, live and shop when it suits us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Luke Moon's proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you. These decisions, mentioned at the end, are a little contrary to themselves. At the same time, we cannot pressure people to work on Sundays and at the same time say that they must leave the decision to live as they want. Being able to live the way you want can give you free time. And that's what this is all about. We are here fighting for the right to free time, and in this country we have, in principle, Saturday and Sunday free and we will fight for as few people as possible on Sundays of work, except of course in urgent activities. Secondly, when you say that we are defending a religious way of life -- that's a little funny. We want people to be free on Sundays. Whether now you see room in this to go to mass, or you see space for a picnic, or you see space for a trip to the sea, is your business. We're just defending everyone's right to free time on Sunday. Thirdly, when you say that our proposal is lobbyist and that gas services as the only exceptions would generate some extra profits, here I have to fix you. We have left in the basic proposal of the law those exceptions which cannot be closed because of other laws. Gas services cannot be closed because of road safety regulations, because drivers have to be able to supply themselves and their vehicles with supplies there. It is similar with shops near hospitals and airport stores. But at first I said that we are ready to talk about additional exceptions, but on two conditions. One is that the law will not completely divorce, that the present state will in fact be preserved if we write too many, and the other that these exceptions should not be contrary to the Constitution. In fact, the Constitutional Court, in its 2003 ruling, has made it very clear that the restriction, for example, that open bars can be up to 80 square metres, is quite arbitrary, because 80 is yes and 81 is not. And by doing so, we put two trades in an uneven position, even though they do the same activity, and one of them has only a square metre larger square. So these exceptions will have to be very clearly defined so that we do not become entangled in constitutional judgements again.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Gregorčič has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u128	Mr Moon, because I would like to replicate you only in one matter, namely your claim for the right to free time. This right to free time for all people in a working relationship is not absolute, it is related to character, to the dynamics of specific employment. After all, our profession of Members is not something that would allow us to choose our own time, nor in other professions do I believe that people with a certain degree of probability or prediction enter a particular profession, except, of course, those who can afford 24 hours a day of free time, and those who, I think, are very few, but this is conditioned then also by economic freedom. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u130	Let me get back to my colleague's discussion in front of me. Yeah, well, we can't choose our free time anywhere. There's no profession. But we need to think in the direction of whether we work to survive or live to work. That's very important. That is why we are talking about free time, and there are also more and more initiatives to reduce working time. Colleagues have already mentioned 100 years of class labor fighting, union battles to prevent people from completely eating out and being exhausted, and the sick have been thrown out of the system. Free time is also very important for the psychophysical condition of the employee and the quality of leisure time so much more. But in order for you to have a quality free time, you have to be adequately paid. Because if you want to go on a trip in your spare time, if you want to take your family somewhere, then you have to have at least enough money to afford it. I think we can all agree on that. Now, the difference between us here, the proponents, and the opponents, is that one of you is defending the consumer's rights to whatever he wants, he can go into the store and buy whatever he wants, and we are defending the employee's right. Because the employees know that the SMC party, which had a majority in the previous mandate, and if any of the Members still remember, has achieved a deregulation of the trade and hospitality profession. At the time, the tradesman’s profession was highly appreciated, we had commercial schools, and qualified merchants came from these commercial schools. Today, they prefigure these professions so that they don't have to pay the extras, they have to pay the extras, or they have to hire students, and they make a bigger profit through their student work at the expense of work, which should be paid to them. Then we have the staff, we said, they work on Sundays. Yes, they do, but it also affected the deregulation, because in the days of the guest schools where they were taught and respected, because they knew which glass you were serving from, and so on. Why am I saying this? Because sometimes I listen to you "go do something." Many in politics were already very early, and let us leave from the left, from the right, in the early years, I was fortunate enough to have done a lot of things, including having a feast at home. Yeah, we worked Sundays, but we were free Mondays or Tuesdays. I worked in the theater. In the 15 years of one New Year's Eve, I did not survive with my family or more than 15 years of New Year's Eve, for you knew at the beginning, if you were in a comedy, you would be working for a new year. It looks like you're coming out at 1:30 at Nazorevo, Chop, where all the euphoric people are drunk and you're just tired, exhausted, because it wasn't just December, there were two, three services a day in December. So, demand dictates how much and when we work. You waited for that one hour that it was finally half the night and you went to bed to sleep on January 1st, 2nd, when they finally gave you peace. It's not a matter of choice, it's a matter of where they put you. And no matter how much you get paid for that time, it's irreplaceable, you know, because at the time, I was single and I didn't even know what to do with myself because I didn't know how to spend the whole night. I didn't know. So what's the problem? The problem with this deregulation is that the wages of traders and traders are so bad. We have to come from this. The trader’s basic salary set out in the tariff annex in the current collective agreement in the so-called first tariff class is only EUR 568 gross, which is EUR 371,89 less than the gross minimum wage, which is almost 40% less than the minimum wage. Why merchants and merchants work on Sundays is the answer here. And why the union supported our proposal is the answer here. If people could work to live and not live to work all the time, they would make a better decision. Due to agreed higher supplements for Sunday and holiday work, they then use a pre-arranged workforce, which then does not belong to it, and this is a violation of fundamental human and labour rights. You say they should be free for another day. True, we can't all be free at the same time. But if you're free the day all your friends, family members are at work, then you can only do it by not spending quality free time, but at the time you're cleaning up at home, sleeping because you're alone. We're talking about social life. It is true that families used to go to Citypark on Sunday, where children play, because the providers give them as much light as possible to spend as much at that time. Wouldn't it be better if we went to the park, to the real park, not Citypark? And I do not moralise, but it is very important that we can and that we are enabled both financially and timely to spend quality free time, which is not shopping, that we are clear. And now, at the time of the crown, we saw that we could live differently. Otherwise, one ton more paper was obtained, which is also a purely irrational consumer trigger, but we saw that we could survive, even if we had a little review of the stocks, everyone had in the freezer or in the fridge or closets, most of them just coming in right that they didn't have to jump into the store every time. There are exceptions to the gas service. We cannot do so because of other laws regulating road traffic regulations, and even truckers must have the right to come to the evenings and buy water or a sandwich or people who travel. Airports, public air transport even on Sundays work, people, when there are delays, have to be able to drink, sing. In short, that's a long way from what a colleague in SMC condemned us - lobbying. It's something about other laws that you can't interfere with and that's irrational. You can't compare a gas station to a Citypark, I mean, you never get all that stuff you see there, and you get one thing, and you take home two bags full of bags, this carnival isn't on the gas station, you take what you need, and that's it. It is unfortunate, however, that the trade sector, trade, covers as much as one third of our economy, which is indeed a tragedy. Look, we have huge trades, huge variety of ambassadors who have managed to set up their trading centres on the best of land, agricultural land, and no one has regulated it because of political negligence. And today we're kind of holding on to them that we'll always have a chance to buy. I'm worried about one other thing, you know, the development is going on, already they're digital cash registers, and here comes the forgiveness of workers and workers in the store because they don't need them anymore, everyone goes to a faster cashier. Another thing that is, online purchases, we also saw at the time of the coronary crisis, that they are very popular and that people point to this, order to a home and so on, that you don't have to go to an older person's shop, walk and watch these shelves, now someone even leads them to the door. It's a lot of commotion. In short, when we talk about jobs, we need to talk about quality jobs. I think Slovenia deserves it. I want, I really want a government that will have a vision of how in this new time, a time of new challenges to think about, how to realize that development is going to go ahead and that maybe we can get ahead of it, but not that we're digging in the back, because soon these malls are going to be pretty empty, whether they're going to work on Sunday or not. Finally, we have here a referendum decision, which we have been ignoring for 17 years, so I think we should respect the decision of citizens, especially traders and traders, because here their right to free time is placed directly against our right to be spoiled consumers, who can, whenever we want, enter into trade and they must be there and work for a really miserable salary. You know, Mercator's workers, who are no longer in our possession, have told me that they are sometimes deployed from Ljubljana to Kranj. Have we ever talked about this? And there's no organized transport or compensation, but the girls are getting along with each other that she's driving today. It's an extremely exploitative thing that happens to them. You know, I think it's up to us here today who are going to make the right choice, whether it's for the right to consumption or for the right of people to work with dignity, decent wages and quality to spend their free time. Because without that, you know, we're going to have a population that's going to be completely exhausted, dissatisfied, and I'm not going to talk about family values now, oh, because a kid can also grow up with a nanny, because they can't pay a nanny, with that kind of salary they certainly can't. In my time, although I often hear how lazy and never did anything, I read fairy tales and synchronized cartoons for generations and generations of children by regularly putting my child to bed by a foreign woman because it was such a job. And you know, then you decide to go free, you can decide for yourself whether you're going to work for New Year's Eve or not. But it also costs a lot of freedom. So let us help people who cannot decide for themselves to have the opportunity, above all, a normal family life, a professional life, a healthy life, for it is also their constitutional right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The replica of Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you very much. He explained something about the colleague's discussion in front of me. She troubled the height of the pay. Of course, I agree, wages are never high enough. But because of your proposal, there is a great danger that merchants, merchants, will have even lower wages. Because, as you know, for Sunday's work, it is agreed on the basis of a closed social dialogue between employers and trade unions to get workers working on Sundays 100 % of the allowances. And there are, of course, quite a few of them who literally report themselves wanting to work on Sundays. It is also true that some commercial companies, which are working at the cost of profitability, are then also using the student labour force. But, as the Secretary of State has already said today, in the opinion of the Government, it is also the student work that will be in this chronological crisis that has already been detected, in fact damaged, that the decline has been detected. Students are also the ones who work and live with it. When they too are less likely to work, their existence will also be more threatened. In fact, in this context, your proposal for today's crisis is not a good solution for students' workers and workers. I would just like to explain more about my thinking about the role of petrol services or commercial premises in trade activities, which they are also further engaged in. My point is that if all the other stores are closed, they will somehow become unfair competition for the other stores. For the service of gas, we know that they also sell goods, general goods. And if the consumer buys another amount of these general consumer goods on Sundays, he will not buy them at other stores on Monday or Tuesday. So from this point of view, it can be unfair competition and allowing companies, owners of petrol services to profit extra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tomic, please. A replica of the replica? That was a replica now? Good. Then he asked for the word Secretary of State Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The importance of social dialogue has been highlighted several times, and the Government is, of course, very aware and supportive of this. On this subject, I would point out that the social dialogue on this topic has run out. As a result of this discussion, this dialogue is a collective agreement concluded by the end of 2022. If I summarize it briefly, it provides that the worker can work for a maximum of two weeks per month, and on holidays, apart from exceptions, family companies, pharmacies, small shops, bakery, free. The allowance for work on Sundays shall be 100 %, but not less than 6.5 euros per hour, for work on holidays and holidays shall be 250 %, no more than 20 weeks per year, and work on Sundays and holidays after the collective contract shall not be charged to a worker who takes care of a child up to three years of age, except on the basis of a worker's explicit written initiative, which may be cancelled at any time, by workers during pregnancy and one year after childbirth or the whole time he is breast-feeding, and one of the workers of a parent who has a severely ill child or a child with physical or mental disability and who lives alone with a child and who takes care of his or her upbringing and protection. When the law interferes with the outcome of this social dialogue, it is also possible to ask how we would react if we went in the other direction. So if we were to take a possible direction that we should keep it open all week long, even though an agreement had been reached between employers and shopkeepers, that is, not that there were no more than two weeks per month, not more than 20, but as a parliament, you would have decided that this was no longer valid, that this agreement meant nothing. So if we are giving weight to this social arrangement, then it is likely that by the end of 2022, when this contract is still in force, this will have to be taken into account. While we are now coming to a time when we will have great problems with unemployment, whether we want to admit it or not. The Coronavirus epidemic will also have consequences in that more people will be out of work. And yes, even if trade moves online, it will result in some kind of trade closing down, that it may be necessary to have smaller spaces, but that we reach administratively is another decision. That is to say, we will consciously decide that at this point, when we already have problems, we will close trade on Sundays past what was agreed in the collective agreement. We'll make a conscious decision. What the market then determines for itself or if people decide not to shop on Sundays, of course, is that they shut down trade and do not work on Sundays, but this is an administrative intervention. And we could also decide not to respect this agreement, but to demand that it work all week long despite their agreement. The next question will be for us, as it is and will be affected by tourism, so far we have not been able to imagine, but this crisis will hit him hard. It is our opinion that in three to five years he will return to the pre-crisis level, and now we are closing down all trades. How will tourism work if we shut down his shop? So that's a new exception. We'll put exceptions on each other. The petrol services will, of course, adapt. The moment we close all the shops, the gas stores will change and we will establish some unfair competition. You need to be aware of that. Which means there'll be exceptions. We will come to terms with the situation when we have Sunday, and then two days off, that is to say three days of trade closed — one more thing. Yes, it will be very important to pay attention after you determine where the limit of which shops can be opened, whether it will be square or not, and again where this limit will be placed and on what basis. What will be the tourist destination in Slovenia if we go to that tourist destinations can open shops. This is certainly Ljubljana, this is certainly Maribor, practically everywhere we strive to have the capacity to make tourism work. We will cause a number of problems with this, rather than allowing them to do what they were able to do in 2018 and takes up to 2022 to determine how the work is rewarded on Sundays. It is very important that it be further rewarded, and at holidays even more and how many weeks one person can work. If this is judged inappropriate at this point, it is time for new discussions. However, in the event that the law is involved, of course, it interferes with a free, free economic initiative, a question that follows, of course, which we will also address from here, which production will be banned on Sundays, which are the jobs that we will close on Sundays. In short, we want such an agreement to be the result of social dialogue to come to an end of social dialogue. If it now turns out that it is no longer appropriate, it is necessary to renew it, however, in order to overcome the law, we estimate that it is not appropriate and we do not recommend it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer Luke Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you. Yeah, this free economic initiative has been floating in the air around this room for a while. I would like to say this, we are talking about trade and any such restriction, any change, if I say so, to the social contract, which can be done on Sundays and which cannot be done, will be dealt with in the National Assembly if this is to be limited, because the law will have to be amended. And today we are talking only about trade and no one has shown that this law would spread anywhere else or even be out of reach because it is linked to commercial activity. So much for where it's going now. However, the problem is on the other hand, yes, but we have a problem in the economy, that although in principle weekends are free, more and more professions are organised so flexibly that they work too much, more than 8 hours a day, and that they are also working on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, working off days. Therefore, as a country, we must limit our right to an eight-hour worker and defend people's right to a day off and to rest. Another thing when you say that there will be big problems with unemployment. There's a recession ahead. That's clear to all of us. However, the facts are the following: the State of Slovenia is receiving aid from the European Union, 2 billion and some from the first package, and will now essentially set up a new fund that will weigh 500 billion euros and can be used by the country, including Slovenia, over the next three years. Moreover, fiscal rules do not apply, it is said, that aid to the economy and citizens is thus allowed during this period. We have a lot of tools to deal with unemployment. However, the fact is that closing trade will not have a significant impact on it. I've discussed this a lot before, and I won't say it again because I'm running out of time. The second fact is that unemployment is much more dependent on the laws you are adopting this week than it is on this law, which is the third anti-korona package. The opposition seeks to ensure that companies receiving state subsidies are obliged to maintain jobs, but the government rejects this and rejects it earlier and the result is that unemployment has increased over the past two months. After the European Commission's study, we are in second place in Europe, as the European Commission says. And this was not the result of the closure of trade, it was the result of the government's actions. And if you are afraid of unemployment, it is significantly more useful to work on how to commit companies that will receive state aid to keep jobs. On the other hand, the traders – and I am responding to Monica Gregorčič's previous debate – are not on the verge of profitability, but, according to Ladija Rožič, President of the Workers' Union, they have generated €800 million of profits in trade last year. So, trade is highly profitable in our country, and closing on Sundays will not put it at risk, because this means only a small part of the turnover and, on the other hand, traders will be able to get rid of the costs. As I have said many times today, many shops are open on Sundays only because their competitor is also open. And merchants and merchants can tell you that on Sundays traffic is the smallest, but your own experience can tell you that you will do the shopping that you do on Sunday, but you will do another day. You don't make an impulsive decision about buying a TV this Sunday afternoon, but it's usually some planned purchase that you'll do if not on Sunday another day. It's like buying clothes, shoes, not even talking about food. Every week we spend so much and so much food, every household knows about, roughly plans for itself, and if one day they don't have access to the store, they'll do these purchases another day. Then there's the last thing about unfair competition and gas services. Here, for the first time, I would point out that petrol services cannot become competition for commercial centres. Petrol can't become a BTC competition in Ljubljana or Qlandia on the highway. And secondly, even petrol services are limited, i.e. bars up to 200 square metres can be opened.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word has Matthew the Widow, after which he will receive the word of Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. When I listen to my colleagues' discussions today, I cannot agree with the proposaler, who says that because of the epidemic or the measures we are taking, trade workers have not been fired. That's not true. I know the cases when trades closed in these two months, not only have they been fired, but they have already lost their jobs today, even though we have allowed them to receive these two months' wages, and they have already agreed to the employment agency. And the fact is, when I listen to the debaters who say that because the stores are open on Sundays, that parents because they are open shops, their children drive to the casino to BTC, to Citypark instead of the park, I can't agree with that, listen. Then pick up all your phones to your children and all your computers today so they don't play games. But unfortunately, we live in a free country, we live in a free country, and parents themselves decide how to raise their children and what is best for their children. And if they think it's appropriate for them to go hang out at shopping malls, that's how they decide. And it's not right for us to forbid it in any way. It's only right that they decide for themselves. Although I myself am not a proponent of going on Sundays to shopping malls to hang out, to party, to recreation. I never do this alone, and neither do my friends. But I really can't understand it, we live in a free country where everyone can decide what and how and when to do, when to buy, what to do, and how to raise their children. This is our right. When we consider this amendment to the law today, I see that this is a very good place for just one more topic, one very good topic that polarises the opinions and views of citizens. Finally, we have already decided on this at the referendum, where I must say that at the time of the referendum, I too advocated closing trade on Sundays. At that time, however, there were no times like those today. And like me, which was then defined as closing trade on Sundays, the majority will of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia has clearly emerged, but unfortunately this has not been done or implemented in practice. The opening time solution for trade, which was applicable to the Government's measures to contain the Coronavirus epidemic, seemed good to me. Now I'll explain why. Because it was achieved by negotiating and coordinating all major stakeholders, these are traders and trade unions, which were as workers' representatives. As a result, the solution brought relief to the merchants so that they could have open shops, and it brought regular work to the workers because they had not been forgiven and because they were still significantly better paid for it, so that today they are often discussing who would work on Sunday and who would not. And, after all, buyers have also come to their account, if I say so in narration, with special shopping habits, association and shopping at the same time in the larger shopping centres on Sundays. Whether that is right or wrong, I cannot comment, but the fact is, if the consumer did not want to have open shops on Sundays, he would not walk and trade would be closed naturally without any legal regulation or requirement. However, I think that most Slovenians close trade on Sundays, in normal circumstances, do not cause any problems. As you state, all the arguments that Sunday is a day for rest, which also comes from the name, non-work, mean that the day for visits, social gatherings, excursions, can also be fully sustained by spiritual care, as some say. On the other hand, it is also helpful to understand buyers who justify their shopping habits by overemployment through work and at the end of their social work spend Sunday mornings with friends and drink coffee at the shopping center. Of course, there is a third party here, and these are traders who advocate and pursue their own interests. However, if we were to take a completely liberal approach to solving this problem, we would probably conclude that trade should be open, a matter of individual actors, real buyers, traders and employees in them, whether they would be shopping on Sundays, whether they would have open and final trades, or whether traders would still be working in precisely these stores, which are open on Sundays. Because we must not forget that all shops are not open on Sundays because we have freedom of decision. Even small shops, which are, say, in certain villages, are also shops, are not just Mercator, Spar, Hofer and so on. Of course, the whole thing is not that simple, especially in the current circumstances when we are in a specific situation. Despite all moral and sound reservations about spending, today it is one way to revive the economy and to gradually normalise public finances, a stable way of life and work. If there's no money flow and it's not done, there's no money. If we do not have economic activity, there will be no profits and, consequently, there will be no taxes to fill the state treasury, and economic growth will not be expected. With debt and debt alone, we cannot unstoppablely solve the problems of public finances, as some imagine and think we have a good husband Santa Claus, Santa Claus, Miklavža somewhere who will give and give and give to us. The government has put in place some very good measures to indirectly finance and promote the economy, particularly tourism. Here I am referring to tourist vouchers that are supposed to encourage holiday at home. This would also encourage individual consumption in tourist destinations. But what will help us if, on Sundays, the most tourists in tourist areas who are willing to spend, spend, have stores closed? And I could count, but my intention is not to find problems, but together today, in today's situation, we need to look for solutions. If those solutions were to be found a year and a half ago, I wouldn't have any reservations. Today, in the given situation, I have a great reservation. And today, I say that at this time, we must all find a rational solution together, which will be in all areas of sound with government measures to come out of the crisis. This is what we are obliged to do for all our citizens, regardless of our ideological beliefs and everyday offenses. Traders and trades have always found a solution for smooth operation. They're very flexible and teachable, so they always find a way to do their business, whether it's legal or illegal. That is why we must find a common path that will be good for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Koražija has the floor and will be discussed by Andrej Černigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u140	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. But I'm going to keep going, and I think one of the Members from this side has also been talking about these really our heroes of this coronary crisis that we've been experiencing in these last two months, and these were really traders, traders and everyone who's been dealing with this kind of trade in one way or another. And yes, if we want to honor them, this is actually the best opportunity we have today, it is said that we are helping them with this possibility that they really have more life or family life on Sundays or that the stores are closed on Sundays. And I'm also going to get a little bit more involved in other aspects that are either willing or reluctant to appear, and these are, in fact, purely environmental aspects. See, if it happens that trade is really closed on Sundays, in fact, three things will happen in the social process. The first is this environmental aspect; on Sundays, trade will be closed, less electricity will be used, less fuel will be consumed, less carbon footprint will be used, in fact, nature will live better and better because of this, and people will have a better quality of life, and all these traders or traders who will have the opportunity to stay at home with their families and children will also have a better family life. Then, the next option is, as I mentioned earlier, this family aspect. I think that this particular coronary or coronary disease has taught us something of high quality or something that is most important to us — why we are on this planet and who we live for. We are all well aware that those who have the opportunity or whether we have been lucky, or whatever our circumstances have turned out to be, that we have a partner, a partner, a child, whatever, we are aware of, even in this chronological crisis, of how important it is to have someone around us who accepts you and helps you through these difficult times. I think we're going to go back to the roots again to realize that our most important human factor is that we are social beings or beings of association and family as well. And then there's this consumer aspect, which I also think is the Coronavirus itself, unfortunately tragic, but maybe in some other way he's opened up some new door and also some new consciousness that we're going to need a broader and new social consensus. I think that formerly, Comrade Luke has explained very well to you the basics of where this society should go or even begin to move – to a more social and even more human, even more to nature. The fact is, whatever it is we turn to, man, nature, and animals should always be ahead of capital. We will always have to be more aware of this and that capital will also teach us to be aware of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Member Andrej Chernigoj has the floor and is preparing for Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u142	Mr Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It took me a while to get here. I'll say, this is my first free debate. Here in this room I hear about battles, conflicts, planting onions, one, the other, a lot of ballast, and a little bit of content. I worked in my previous service in the European Parliament in Brussels, and there somehow worked the concept of lex parsimoniae after the Latin or Slovenian law of laziness, that is to say, in one minute to tell the essence and give the opportunity, also to the other to make a statement. I must say that in the National Assembly, in the temple of democracy, I miss round tables. There's a big round table here today, sad. Although I allow the possibility of a discussion, I would like to have, as in the European Parliament, a discussion on this basis, an opportunity for a round table and an opportunity for an economic society, economic associations and other social partners to wish and be able to prove themselves right. Don't get me wrong, I really enjoy this debate, but I think sometimes we lose the red thread. I would like to say very briefly that I agree with all my colleagues who were before me in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – I would support my colleague Ivo Dimic, and I agree that we should also advocate for rural areas, for small local trade. As for the Trade Act itself, this law has a long-standing beard, which begins in 2003, then we have heard the referendum 2017 and so on, but to be brief, I will say just for the end, Sunday should become gentlemen's day. If I express myself in a coastal way: domestic parishioner, family and the discovery of the beauty of Slovenia. Free Sunday will contribute to a healthier Slovenia. So once again, I hope that this conversation has been listened to by economic companies, economic associations and other social partners, they have learned what the consequences of this conversation will be, and they will be sitting at the social table again today or tomorrow, starting a conversation because 2022 is behind the door. Today, I will vote that the proposal to close trade on Sundays is suitable for further consideration, but I would like to see more debates, round tables, which I will also be happy to come to. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Member Franz Breznik has the floor. He's not here. Member Bojana Muršič has the floor and will be given the floor by Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Today, when we listen to this debate, I must say that it is very interesting both on the one hand and on the other, but I will start by saying: Who in the Republic of Slovenia has power under the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution? Humans. The will of the people at the previous legislative referendum in 2003 was clear. 57% of voters and voters voted in favour of closing trade on Sundays. I must also take note of the fact that this decision on the restriction of free economic society, which today has been extremely full of speech, was also decided three times by the Constitutional Court and found that the restriction of working time is not in violation of the Constitution. That's why today is so much easier for me to decide how to proceed. But I am still asking a question for all the other Members and Members. Do we respect the electorate and electorate or the people who elected us to the National Assembly who decided at the previous legislative referendum to close trade on Sundays or to follow the competition of bidders, traders and profits? Let's take it nice and slow. The position of the merchants, the trade in the store is arduous. Those who have faced this work, which has also gone through some school system, today, although this profession is deregulation, know that their work is extremely difficult. Work on Sundays is only part of these difficult conditions. Workers, I will say more broadly, for both men and women, it is difficult to maintain an orderly pace of life, but especially I speak on behalf of young mothers who have school-bound children, as well as fathers, because fathers take a big role today. Most of them do it in shifts by redistributing working time. And what's going on? This improves their quality of life. I've been talking a lot lately with traders at this time of the coronavirus, there's been more time, more in the home environment, which is absolutely good. Although it was clear from their conversation that they were better paid on Sundays, they still want to be free on Sundays and then spend time with their loved ones, whether they go on a trip or lie down and see a good movie or read a good book. They don't have time for this. And what else did one of the stores say to me? She said, "I don't have a problem working on Saturdays, not on Saturdays, but on Saturdays, up to eight or even nine, because a lot of people work until nine. She said, but I want to stay home on Sunday. And that's what moved me. It is true that this free time that workers and workers have accumulated with a decade of union fighting, including political efforts, including social dialogue, has led to the fact that the weekend is free for most people. I'm talking about most people. There were sometimes merchants among them. I remember on Saturday at 1:00 last time we could go to the store and then Monday. Then, in fact, it became a whole new system and it happened that the trade opened up, the rhythm of life changed, and we're people, I'll say, including me, extremely unhappy, from day to day more, extremely irritable, because we don't have that free time of our own. I'm telling you from this, because at the time of the coronavirus, people were respectful, solidarity, I'll say smiling, we were very fond of talking. I have to say, in the last week or 14 days, this pace, this nervousness, and people are once again ineligible, turning away, something we're in a hurry to do. Is that what we really want? True, we talk about most people, but the nature of some individuals is that we cannot all be free at the same time. Of course, I would like to draw attention here to people who work in health care homes, also in critical infrastructures, including in tourism, even in catering restaurants, museums, and so on, or so on. But at the time of this virus, although there was a speech today, it turns out that people can adapt. We can buy things or make bigger purchases. And at the time of the crown of the crisis, trade had a significantly higher income at the time of the opening. And these were not going to say, 20% increase in purchases, but substantially more. Therefore, a reasonable question is raised as to what it means for trade to be closed on Sundays in these large trading centres, which today have been extremely much debated. Of course, in these restaurants or in these large shopping centers, they come, they are associated, in the winter time, many families are warmed up to go to the mall, where they try to get warm, because they may not even have a warm home at home, and then they survive there. This is where the question is what will happen if the trade closes on Sundays. But you have to look at it in one piece. Here, too, the question is what will happen to the trading venues, what will happen to the rental shops, what will happen to the guest houses that are in these large shopping centres. It's a matter of looking at it whole. The worker is indispensable and without a satisfied worker there is also no successful trader or I can say broader companies, because we are not just talking about the worker or the worker in the shop, I am also talking about the company. For if a worker is satisfied, he will gladly come to work, then he will also create that added value in the workplace. If we have an unsatisfying worker at work, unsettled, believe me, he'll be wise all day long, he'll exert himself and transfer negative energy to his coworkers, and the actual traffic won't be what we all want. It could be in the store, but it could be in the company. And once again, the worker must be satisfied. When is he satisfied? When he's released, when he's properly rewarded for his work, and he's also rested. That is why it is so much more important that we give the worker relief and rest, as well as adequate earnings, that this rest should be during the weekend and not during the week of work, while the remaining family members are either at work, school, kindergarten. Let me put it this way, or we're talking more about women today. Although women are great because they are, say, on Tuesday or Wednesday at home, then they do those household chores that they otherwise fail to do, but this is not a quality leisure experience. It would be good if you and your family could go to the museum on Wednesday, and if that was Wednesday, go to the museum, go to the restaurant, have a good lunch. Our spending free time also gives bread, yes, to many people, not only to traders, and not only to all the other days, because in fact in tourism, in hospitality, as I said, in the image of museums, theatres of performances, even Violet was today talking about what was happening in her career, and yes, but some professions are such that a person decides to do this work and you insist as long as you insist. It is true, however, that once again, if this is the case on Sundays, it is necessary to provide workers with an adequate payment, even double, as the Secretary of State has already mentioned today, that it is necessary to reward workers and workers at the time of the holidays with 250%, and that is a good thing. But still, that's so much complaining, that the worker who wishes he didn't work on Sundays, that there were actually big problems. When the ladies of the shops spoke to me, yes, because he would leave me, but then I have to find a replacement, then he looks at me a little bit strange -- in fact, the workers don't deserve it, the workers, the absolute merchants, the merchants, no. It is truly right to look at what people want. Of course, we are different people, thank God we are different, so today in this Parliament we have a parliamentary debate that we can talk about more broadly, and this is the purpose of today's debate. This is the only right way to reach a broader consensus, to exchange experiences, to be recognized by voters, to respect them, to know how to talk, and to reach an appropriate final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Ambassador Franz Kramar, I will read the last four applications, namely Željko Cigler, Daniel Krivec, Joseph Horvat and Luka Mesec. Mr. Kramar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u146	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I won't be long, I'll be very direct, and I'll also say what I really expect until I read again, what I expect from the proposer to arrange things for another reading. Stopping stores is a kind of populism act. We know that today, if you ask anyone whether they agree that the stores are closed on Sundays, everyone will say normal, I agree, because of the employees in these stores. But the problem is that in these stores they are poorly paid and that Sunday and Saturday work is expected to be paid twice. I don't think it would be a problem for workers to want to do this, of course, for an appropriate payment. The problem I see, however, is that I come from a tourist place and I can tell you that closing trade on Sunday means a bad light for every tourist place. You know, tourists don't understand that the problem is that shops are open, but tourists are willing to spend and spend in stores. I am aware, and I think it is right that the big malls close on Sundays, and I appeal here to the proposer to include small stores. I have to say that you've turned to me two ladies, each has its own store, it's a small store, they said, if you're not allowed to operate on Sundays, then we're losing a lot because you're the most successful on Sundays, of course they're asking, if that's possible, and I think the proposer can do that by introducing this provision and the article into the second reading. If this is also stated in the second reading, of course, I will support the law, but if it does not, I will not support this law. All I can say is that it is interesting, too, that we had a referendum in 2003, I think it took so many years for politics not to be able to organize and sit together for one table and carry out the referendum will of the people of Slovenia by 2020. So it's been more than 15 years, so no policy so far has wanted to deal with the subject. That's why I think it's okay, I welcome it. Once again, I appeal to the proposer to include small shops in tourist destinations as an exception, because it can actually come back as a feedback, and this will not be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Member Željko Cigler has the floor and will be discussed by Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues! The objectification of the situation is about this – in the vicinity, Germany, Italy, Austria, as has already been said, has stores closed on Sundays. Once, as a colleague of Muršičeva said, stores were opened in Slovenia on Saturdays until 12 p.m. and then no more Sundays. And even as Social Democrat Franjo Trček explained earlier, Slovenia has a problem, and this is that too much of the gross social product is created within trade. I think we have to invest substantially elsewhere and look for added value and employment in other activities where higher added value is created. And if we look at how many square meters of trade per inhabitant we have on the citizen of Slovenia today in Slovenia, I think we reach the European summit itself. And if we look at it, today we're talking practically about 115 thousand people, about their lives, about their rights, and we're talking about one request from citizens from the 2003 referendum, which was aimed at not having to trade on Sundays, they can be closed. At the same time, we have been guided by the Constitutional Court by three judgments to limit the working time of trade in non-conformity with the Constitution. And finally, this is also agreed by the employees in the store. When colleague Luka Mesec spoke earlier about the trade union survey, I must tell you that almost 100% of trade employees agree to shut down trade on Sundays. They also say that this does not affect them and that they understand and accept that they will therefore have a lower salary, although they point out at the same time, our wages are practically minimal and every euro has to be bloody hard to afford. As has already been said, it is a deregulated profession where trade is practical to create, optimize as much as possible their business, generate as much profits as possible, employ anything other than commercially educated people. These are workers who are on call who must always be available if trade, if work, if commercial capital so requires, are desperate working conditions, high labour burdens. This is what we are talking about today, about such workers and about one obligation that we need to take into account as a legislator practically slowly. In the course of the referendums, including the 2003 referendum and the Constitutional Court's judgments, there have been expert discussions on this proposal, which has now been proposed or summarized by the Left, and many other arguments have been given so economically, legally, socially, psychologically, that this matter is simply carried out. And I think it's one of the legislators' obligations. I also understand this debate, which is not bad today, that the majority of Members and Members, with understanding of the proposal of the Left, are turning around and that we will ultimately achieve a likely positive outcome. I would like to say this, on the one hand, we have the citizens' demands on how to regulate working hours in trade, professional, substantive thinking and the basis for it, and on the other hand the interest of capital, which goes solely and only to create more profits. As well as Luke’s earlier fine point out, in 2019, trade capital in Slovenia created EUR 800 million of profits. Much of this went to poor wages and to very poor conditions of workers employed in trade. And this capital is certainly not going to lose much when we change the Trade Act and we are going to work on Sundays, or work on the days that have been arranged for us, practically cut off the merchants. This can show the time of business and the way trades function during the crown of the virus. At the time, trades at the beginning of the crown of the virus functioned normally, although they did not operate on Sundays, and they were operating at the beginning of the week. I think after what the trade visit was like and how big the traffic was at the time, that the profits were, in particular, in the groceries, the hypermarkets were even bigger than at the usual times. So here too afraid that capital will not have the right position in Slovenia if we stop working on Sundays and working on days off for traders, so that there are too many problems for capital here. And when the head of the Chamber of Commerce, Mrs Marić Lah, said that the income decline was supposed to be 10% or that 12 thousand employees would eventually lose their jobs even if there were no Sunday work, it is clear that this would not hold up. Indeed, the data are now public that there are 7 000 workers in the store or that this hole is also patched up with workers through student service or with workers through employment agencies. Indeed, here I agree with Janije Möderndorfer, also because capital optimizes the costs of trading. In short, as low as possible is the cost of working to keep workers' salaries as low as possible. And the epidemic showed that consumers in Slovenia, those who buy in stores, had absolutely nothing missing when the stores were closed on Sundays and were operating for a much shorter time than usual. I do not think that there should be major problems in confirming and adopting the proposed amendment to the Trade Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Horvat has the word and is behind him as the last Luke of the Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! New Slovenia, as a central party that builds politics on Christian values, is a severe opponent of socialism, self-government socialism, where everything and indeed everything is regulated by the state, and is a severe opponent of wild, hard capitalism, where everything should be regulated by the hard time of the market. We are defending the socio-market model of the economy and, as such, we are also normally part of the European family, the European People's Party. This is a model that was set up in theory by Ludwig Erhard and Walter Eucken, leading representatives of the Freiburg School and, as it is said, the author of the socio-market economy model. It is important to start a debate on this issue, specifically on the law proposed by colleagues and colleagues of the Left with this theory. Eucken-Erhardt's model of the socio-market economy is basically a free market economy that provides minimum social protection for those who cannot compete. As Erhard happily stated, I quote: “The more the economy is free, the more social.” While the model foresees a strong role for the State, it is, however, limited to the establishment of rules of the game that allow for an equal market competition. And now specifically to the law that stores are supposed to be closed on Sunday. Interestingly, we find ourselves here Christian Democrats as the central party and the Left, and we find ourselves. It has been a long way since Nova Slovenija started this initiative in this house. It was like 18 years ago. And if you allow a little history, 445 thousand 842 voters, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are on the previous one, then we had a previous legislative referendum, in 2003 already decided on the issue of closing trade on Sundays. New Slovenia proposed the right of employees in stores until Sunday rest with a proposal for a law already in the same year. On 21 September 2003, the citizens of the already mentioned referendum, the previous legislative referendum, were also smitten with this. 57.53% supported the referendum issue. Later this issue was never completely closed. And who rules in this country? In this country, there is a demos, a people. And the referendum is actually the form of the broadest decision-making of citizens and citizens of this country. Recently, at the end of 2017, the National Assembly addressed a proposal for a new Trade Act proposing to limit the operating time of trade on Sundays, with a considerable number of exceptions. Nor did the law at the time explain the determination of the maximum trade area limit, where trade can still be opened on Sunday. It is precisely this reasoning that is necessary, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, to ensure the constitutional compatibility of the bill. At the time of the consideration of the marriage proposal at the time, an agreement was reached on this issue between employers and trade unions, which we have welcomed as an important step forward by the Christian Democrats. Determination of the operating time of trade on Sundays in our premises is not unusual. On Sundays, countries such as Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and Norway decide in one way or another to close trade. We always like to compare ourselves with Austria as our most developed northern neighbour, always like to compare ourselves with Germany as our far-reaching trading partner. We in Novi Slovenija are aware that we need to weigh more values in the legal regulation of the possibility of trading on Sundays, and we do not take this lightly. On the one hand, we have a restriction on business freedom of trade to freely determine our operating time. On the other hand, we have the possibility of a Sunday break for traders and traders, especially traders, and the possibility of spending Sunday with their loved ones. And this is not in hypermarkets, but in this beautiful Slovenian nature, which we who live here often overlook and must be warned by foreign tourists. Well, now that we get the vouchers or the vouchers, we'll probably spend more time admiring the beauty of green Slovenia. From the Christian tradition, by the way, I am glad that colleague Jani will occasionally be circumcised with Christian values, perhaps forget to say that these are values that have been known for two thousand years and that no one has rejected them in these two thousand years, and I am sure they will not be. [[…]] As far as his values are concerned, I believe he has a problem, since he is probably already in the fourth or fifth party or sixth party, I don't know, and normally these values of political action are getting a little blurred or a little confused. Thus, it follows from the Christian tradition, which also creates the Central European Civilisation Framework, which Slovenia belongs to, that a person needs a day of rest every week. However, it is not just a matter of providing a person’s rest on a random day of the week, but it is also a possibility for a person to spend this day of rest together with his family or loved ones. For practical reasons alone, this cannot be done without harmonising or uniting society on the question of what day of the week it is. In countries based on the Christian tradition, this day is Sunday, which in the Slovenian language already says the name of the day alone – non-work. In Novi Slovenija, we have been detained in interfering with business freedom in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, but this necessity, after social unification around one day a week in order to realize the values of the family, represents one of the arguments that this issue should be harmonised and settled at the highest possible level. Leaving the week as a day’s work in our society contributes to curbing family life, making it difficult to spend the day off with family members. And let us not forget this almost clichéd truth — the family is a fundamental cell of society. Family is a fundamental cell of society. We are aware that the possibility of Sunday's rest cannot be guaranteed to everyone, unfortunately. There are professions whose implementation is also necessary on Sunday in certain cases. Each of them needs to be given special consideration, but the aim of unifying society around the week as part of the day off is to allow Sunday rest and time with the family as many citizens as possible and citizens whose Sunday work is not necessary. The question raised is, then, is Sunday’s trade business necessary? This is a key question and this question will be answered by this law. And we will be very helpful in this answer. Since it is possible to purchase the needs we need on Sunday for all other days of the week in commercial activities, the answer to this question is no. When we place business freedom on the scale, we are always extremely careful in New Slovenia. It is too often broken in Slovenia. By restricting trade on Sundays, they would contribute to the unification of society around a week as a day of rest and would allow more than 100,000 people in society closest to them. When we weigh this family value with business freedom of trade until Sunday’s operation, however, the weight leans on the side of family values. The family is the foundation on which our society is built. Only if this foundation is solid will the Slovenian society and the Slovenian economy be able to operate in the long term. I will support this law in my first reading. I don't see who's the author, who's the proponent. However, I would like to have a second reading on the committee responsible if the law gets this far, and I expect that there will be a dialogue between employers and between workers. These days, we receive many messages from merchants asking us to support this law, but we also hear what and what the Chamber of Commerce is talking about. The world will not collapse if we close trade on Sunday, only for a nuance will our lives change for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you very much. As the last one gets the word, there's also a Member of the Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Now, if I keep going where my predecessor ended up. All societies in history have organized themselves by incorporating leisure time into their activities so that the holidays were free and so on. This is not only a specificity of a Catholic, Christian tradition, but practically the history of all mankind. But it is true, as that famous saying goes, that people in all past societies have worked to live and we live in capitalism to work. The proof of that is the 19th century. In the 19th century, it was this one. The working theory of value said, a man who works, say, within five hours, five working hours a day covers, creates enough for his existence. So if there's anything left for the owner, he has to work longer. And they worked hours, worked 10 hours a day, 12 hours a day, 14 hours a day, worked kids, worked Saturdays and so on. This was the 19th century, saying one huge use of people to make big profits to factories. In the second half of the 19th century, the union movement resisted and we received the 20th century, which set different priorities. They put a man first. And they said a man must have free time, a man must have eight hours a day off, eight hours a day to sleep and eight hours a day to work, of course also a weekend off. Now I don't think any of you in this room have to ask in particular, because I think everyone can answer the question, which society would prefer to live in, in the 19th or 20th century, in the 19th century, where capital had total freedom, or in the 20th century, which was a bet on human freedom. However, history answers this for us, namely, after the collapse of socialism, social democracy and, to a large extent, the collapse of union movements, we return to our old patterns. Today, a number of activities operate on Sundays, people work more than eight hours a day, there is a plethora of work, and we return to a society where we live primarily to work. The task of us as legislators is to place restrictions on this trend. Today, we are about to decide whether or not to impose restrictions on closing trade on Sundays. As we have said several times in the debate, this is nothing special in the European space; many countries of Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Hungary have closed trade on Sundays. And as we have said many times in the debate here, there would be no disastrous effects, not on employees, not on spending free time, not on any personal freedom, which has also been mentioned. The fact is that we are essentially facing a very classical question. On the one hand, we have a union, employees who have responded 95 % in the poll that they would rather not work on Sundays, even though they will therefore be working on Sundays. On the other hand, we have a Chamber of Commerce that creates some scary numbers about 20,000 lost jobs that it doesn't even support, but it just suggests that it seeks to keep work on Sundays. It is also clear why everyone here is standing on his side. On the one hand, we have employees who work for minimum wages with a few extras, in stores there are a lot of minimum wages, in trade activities. On the other hand, we have a Chamber of Commerce, a representative of the owners of commercial capital, which last year, according to the Trade Workers' Union, generated €800 million in profits. So we know who's profiting here and why each side has its own position. On the one hand, the minimum wage and the Sunday work, on the other hand, the multi-hundred-million-dollar profit of trading activity per year. If we decide as human beings if we put ourselves in the shoes of employees, their families, their partners, our children, I don't think we have any choice but to give this law a green light today. But for the end, I will add another reason why this law should be supported. This is because we are in the 21st century, including the fight for climate justice, in this fight for free time. We're in a society that's overworked and consumed to destroy the planet we live on. If you write Earth Overshot Day in Google, the right day when we go beyond planetary capabilities, you will see that Slovenia is there among the top third countries that exceed the planet's recovery capabilities after its consumption, and this happened to us as early as April 26th this year. If we continue this way, there is nothing good ahead of us in the future. Natural resources are being drained, forests are being cut out, a third of the species are dying out, the climate is heating up. If we think about what kind of world we're going to leave to our craftsmen, we're just going to have to step on the brakes. It will be necessary to step on the brakes and create slightly different values as regards work and consumption. That's the fact we're facing. One day in a week, when we do not work and spend, it is a good start to start talking about a more sustainable way of life in an environmental and climate sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. State Secretary Simon Zajc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u154	Thank you very much. First of all, thanks for a good, constructive debate. As the Government, however, we would like to point out that we have a difficult period ahead of us, a period of recession and forgiveness. And we do not want to contribute ourselves to increasing the number of unemployed by such measures. In any event, if the law goes into a further procedure today after the vote, the exceptions should be considered very carefully. It should be borne in mind that when such a measure is taken, many of the smaller traders operating at the shopping centres today - and on Sunday is not as small a traffic as mentioned after feeling - will, of course, also be exposed to the fact that they will be put into some difficulty at a time when such a survival of business facilities on the market will be difficult, more difficult to consume, of course, because of this. I would also stress the importance of tourism for the Slovenian economy, the importance of tourism further for subcontractors of tourism, if I say so, by shutting down all trades every week of the year, which, by the way, is not what was voted on in the referendum, the referendum issue was probably up to 10 weeks, and this will have to be taken into account if this law goes forward. But if tourism is to be picked up faster than it is in three to five years, such as a prediction now, or if it is to be collected in at least three to five years, it will probably not make sense to take measures where then tourism cannot function normally. However, in the future, of course, we will continue to give our opinion and to cooperate constructively. Once again, the situation that awaits us is difficult, and we do not think it is wise to take such measures at that time, especially on the fact that the social agreement has been concluded, that the collective agreement is signed, in force until the end of 2022, provides that a maximum of two weeks of workers in the commercial sector can work and not more than 20 weeks can work, and that when we go with the law in this direction, of course we will also devalue this social dialogue and the agreement reached.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you very much. There's also a proposaler, Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you. When I listen to the secretary, I see, in essence, some of this conservativeism, it is said, the task of the government is to get the state back to the old tracks as soon as possible, and I think that I and you, as former environmental minister, must agree that these old rails were not sustainable. The country has been at some stage of extensive economic growth, saying that as many jobs as possible with more or less low wages in the subcontracting sectors. And, as I've shown before, we're exceeding the planet's reconstruction capabilities every year by the end of April. The period I see ahead of us will be early in the recession, but in fact it is a great opportunity for us to start doing things differently. Today, the final news has come that Europe will spend €750 billion in the Fund for Reconstruction and Development and that Slovenia can benefit from €5.1 billion in European aid. My appeal to the government is, take advantage of this help of this €5 billion, which is a unique historic opportunity to start doing things differently. Invest in green jobs, invest in quality jobs, invest in rebuilding those parts of the economy that are most productive, have the smallest carbon footprint and at least pollute the environment. We are, of course, prepared to help you as an opposition party. However, I cannot accept re-signation in leverage in the way that the only way we know is to return to the old tracks or return in a way that even those restrictions on environmental destruction and working standards that we had in common with some of the intervention measures are overcome is to say that the new reality will be even more brutal than the old one. We're gonna fight this.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure? I see there's still interest, so I'm asking you to apply. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proponent Luke Mesec or the representative of the Government, please report by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will get the word as the last, first of all the representative of the Government to this representative of the proposer. Seven reported. Everyone gets five minutes. First, Member Marian Pojbič will be given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I have written many times, but I have also made it very clear that I will support this law, of course, in the first reading, because I am aware that in our society we have the Social-Economic Council, which is the body where a certain consensus will be sought, that this law will experience the light of the world. Personally, I think merchants and merchants deserve a week's rest, especially when I'm talking about moms. You know, the one who has a family, what Mommy's place in the family means. I don't think there should be any dilemma here, no dilemma to find a suitable solution here. I think it will be possible here and it is also possible to negotiate with the Chamber of Commerce and find some compromise solution that will be good for all. As I have already said, in my first reading, I will support this law as announced by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, regardless of who is the applicant for this bill. At the same time, I think it is extremely important, so I also took the floor to stress the duality of the Left, the SD and also some Members of the LMŠ. Yesterday evening, from 19:00 p.m. to 8.45 p.m., we discussed a law that reaches every citizen and citizen in our country. We are talking about the third anti-korona law that we want to help tourism, workers, businesses, practically all citizens and citizens, and to accelerate the development of the economy, the development of tourism and thus give the unemployed the opportunity to get a job. This is what should be crucial to all of us. And that's where Levica, the time I was talking about, 13 hours 45, about, spent half of her time to prevent the timely adoption of this law. So today, after this meeting, we must continue this meeting. It's extremely inappropriate, extremely, I'll say, irresponsible, and work directly against people. It's really unacceptable. On the one hand, they say how people should be helped, and on the other hand, from yesterday from seven o'clock to today, 8:45, we saw how and what they were doing to prevent this law, which is intended for people, from being adopted. Such duplicity can no longer be tolerated. I also listened to Mrs Muršič a little earlier. She told us to look at what people wanted. Yeah, she's had a chance for 10 years now when she was in a government party. And they're here telling us to look at what people want. Where were you, what were you doing, by God? I just don't get it, extreme sedition! And I don't mind any party, absolutely nothing, I also said that I would support it no matter how much Levi put it, because it's a matter of people, it's about helping people, it's about helping people, it's about helping those who deserve a week's rest. But it is true, as I said, that this law will also have to be addressed in the Social-Economic Council, because we always like to stress this over and over again, but there are employers, workers and the Government. I am sure that it will be possible to find a compromise here and that this law will get a green light and finally come to the fact that really those moms, as I said, because there is a huge trade or most shops almost, that have children at home who have very much responsibility in the family, have one more day to spend time with their children and that they will have some parents and children out of it. And I don't think there's anyone here who would object. However, the duplicity of some of the parties in this national assembly is unacceptable, distasteful, and I do not approve of it, so I also had to state these arguments which I had previously stated that someone who on the one hand speaks of fighting for people and on the other hand is blocking a law that will reach just every citizen. And that's extremely inappropriate, and that's the Left. Miha Kordish, yesterday, if you looked, Siter, that's not to be seen. The shameful act and shameful conduct of these Members must no longer be repeated, and people must know that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u159	Thank you very much. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u160	Our citizens and citizens need to know.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u161	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u162	Excuse me, Mr. President. Do I still have it? No, no, no. All I'm saying is that I will support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u163	Time's up. It was available for five minutes. Thank you very much. The next one has the word Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that, President. The bill to close trade on Sundays and holidays - because it is big trade, we must bear in mind that it will be clear - it has a very long beard. Let us look at this issue a little bit wider, economically and not only in the interest of existing trade activities and trade employees. In the footnote that we are here today, I do not want to be under this influence, I want to think broader, globally, in the interests of the whole society, what is best for all. And so it should also be in politics to discuss and decide, and by no means under the influence of either the left or the right, which are influenced by the first or the second. In 2003, we identified citizens and citizens in the referendum. 250 grand was for closure, 185 thousand against. Why, then, did we hold a referendum if we do not respect it today? Colleagues and colleagues, it is the basic right of workers to have at least one day of the week off. That we have the holidays to make sure we have a family life, a day for culture, for sport, for events. That is why, after all, the working world, the working class, has been working for centuries on this fundamental right of rest for all, not just some. This is supported by the unions democratically. The union advocates the position of workers who now work on Sundays and holidays. Traders and chambers would have had it open. Of course, it's profit. There's, of course, exhaustion in the background. I don't know what we don't understand here. Loss of jobs, loss of profits, loss of business for GDP, loss of tourism. I don't believe in any of this. It's simply a game for the consumer, psychological-market pressure for consumption. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a reallocation of consumption. It is simply a redistribution of trade activities. Tourism will be better, not worse. Here we remember the debate of Coronapacket One, we had closed plants, flower shops, and people we went to Hofer, Lidl. Why? There will be a little more small trades than they used to be before big ones arrive, when small businesses' trades failed. There will be more organic sales, domestic trades for both domestic and tourism. Yeah, that's what we want, and that's what we have in our goals, especially now in this coronary crisis. They compete largely, and prices fall, good for the consumer, lower costs, including employees' salaries, but also pressure suppliers' prices with their power of economies. Finally, the consumer always pays the market price. Remember how in this National Assembly you advocated the survival of the labour-intensive industries, textiles, footwear, wood industries, and thus hit a lot of ground. So I'm an economist, as a worker, as a citizen, and especially as a man for the fact that big stores are closed on Sundays and holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Member Predrag Baković has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Chairman. I must first touch the thing I just heard or back at my colleague Pojbich's. I don't understand that even in cases where we agree in principle with certain things, there are some stories to be found and there are stories to try to deepen disputes where there is an attempt to deepen resentment. I'm not really going to understand this and I'm not going to accept it. It's about duality. What, though, is more of a duality than someone who is under suspicion calling himself an investigative commission and then investigating himself? Please! But we can't do that in these cases when it's something that we have the same opinion about, so that we can coordinate here, without dragging some liver out and not know what we're doing. As for this topic, I have responded because at this time I receive many appeals from workers working in these industries who have such problems. And I can say I completely understand them. I come from my previous job, where we didn't actually know Sundays or holidays, we worked and went to these jobs hard, especially during the weekends when the children and the whole family were home, but we went for a little money or for the same money as during the week in those days. The situation has changed to some places, especially in public administration, where items of these Sunday or holiday hours have increased slightly, are more valued and, of course, slightly more paid. In fact, the dilemma that still exists on the one hand is money, on the other hand family, leisure time, quality of life. My opinion is that free time and contact with the family is very important or most important, more than a well-paid hour. Most of those who work on holidays understand that. Last but not least, this was shown by a survey already referred to by a fellow moon, 95 people would rather be identified as a contact to stay at home than to come to work and get a class item a little larger. Of course, there are jobs that have to work on Sundays, and there are jobs for which this is not necessary. And in these cases, I take it as a profit, but not as a profit to the workers who work there, but as a profit to companies, companies. Therefore, in my view, let it be a criterion for whether it is done on Sundays or not, a reason for urgency. And if there's really no need for a trade, let's make sure people are home. And this was finally shown by the 2003 referendum. That is why I support what Levi has proposed, and I believe that we will succeed in doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word has been sent by Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. Once during the 2008 presidency, after a very difficult working day, we talked at night, and a high official of the European Union asked me what seemed most important to me at school. She must have been a pain in the ass, and that's when I said break. It was like a joke, but it's true. It's a very important vacation. Today’s studies, studies show how important rest, sleep, rest, shorter and longer rest are. All of this contributes to human health. But when we look at, say, young people, learning people, as well as older learners, rest also means better functioning of the human brain, better judgment, better decisions. Biorrhythmias cause illness, causing severe family conditions. Whoever has people doing this on weekends, on duty, has that experience, and knows how burdensome it is for a person and for a family. The question is whether the health consequences of such a way of life may cost more than the income from opening trade. At the same time, people in the tourism sector remind me of the necessity of opening souvenir shops on Sundays. Well, I think they have it in Austria and Germany. I just have to agree with them, and that remains a dilemma for me. At the same time, I am listening to the Government's arguments, the covid situation requires the start of the economy, and I must also agree with that. And at the same time, I can say that I would like to have a temporary condition for such a measure, so that it may be postponed for some time, for the next period. I must say that I will, of course, support this solution today. And at the same time, let me say that I am well aware that the unfulfilled message of the Human Referendum, the voice of the people, which was almost two decades ago, is on the way to realization. Finally, one referendum in Slovenia will not be played. However, I hope that the solution, which will also be developed in the further process, will be suitable for both employees, family values and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u169	Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This debate, at least my wish, may have to fall on the board for once into the field of new business models of trade. Those of us who have just had enough time in the world know what trades in our childhood looked like. There were no wheelchairs, there was a counter, and there were shelves, and my mom wrote me what I had to buy on the ticket. Very few articles. I remember the most yeast for 20 and so on. Then self-service stores came in. Something revolutionary new. And today we have hypermarkets that have a fantastic offer, where, of course, some even find opportunities to spend Sunday with their family in this hypermarket. If some are happy about this, okay, I do not oppose it, but once again, the beauty of Slovenia is too great not to show them to their children, but first of all to their grandchildren. As far as the business model of some trade is concerned, yes, in the present and future, this is certainly quite different from that of my childhood, thanks to technology. In 2017, about 1.7 billion landowners were bought online – this is what I'm talking about. The forecasts for next year are that there will be about 2.2 billion people online, from 17% to 30% of the next year. Experts have found that personalized online sales are more effective than when you do not really know who you are writing to or who you are in contact with. This e-commerce industry is about to get stronger and stronger. There are different models: business to business, business to customer, customer to customer and so on and so on, I will not now discuss this because also the agenda item of this meeting is not intended to do so. There is also artificial intelligence, which will enable anything to be possible, everything about the acquisition of goods. We will certainly need other traders and traders in this area as well. I hope and wish that they will work in a better environment than some do today, but I am not saying that the environment for workers in all stores is bad. Smart Slovenia will also have smart kitchens, smart storages, smart refrigerators, you all know what I'm talking about. Therefore, I say that the business model of trade is rapidly changing and it is difficult to predict what this model will be like in the future, in five or 10 years from now. So this is another additional call for reflection and not for the state to define what kind of business model this should be, God forbid. This will already be done by those who are experts and, of course, those who want to provide their e-commerce services as efficiently or competitive as possible. There are many of these in Slovenia. There are about 3,000 different online stores in Slovenia right now. And as it is said, all of this actually affects a different environment in which modern traders and traders will operate. And we wish in New Slovenia that this environment would be a people-friendly environment, both for traders and traders as well as for their customers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Member Boris Doblekar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Respected and respected! Otherwise I wasn't originally reported, but the matter is of course very interesting and I said, I will discuss these five minutes and give some facts, some of my thinking on the subject. There, of course, we have heard from the Left, for example, that the Government should make an effort to ensure that European funds for development, for the economy, for jobs and so on are used. EUR 5 billion to make a profit. Of course, if we left it in Levica, as my colleague Marijan Pojbič had discussed earlier, we would certainly do so with great joy and much quicker. But when we look at these scenes, especially at the Left, as well as at some other members of the opposition after committee meetings, after the meetings in the National Assembly, I don't know if you mean honestly that the Government would actually do that. For delaying in this way and in another way, there is no way for you to help the government to do so. So Levica is blocking everything that is possible, in all possible ways, through the abuse of the Rules of Procedure and various other intrigues that have not yet existed in Slovenia. Of course, I must say that I will certainly support this proposal on closing trade in the first reading, and I certainly agree that trade is closed on Sundays. I can also say, of course, that given that the Left has repeatedly or even the opposition has shown to the Government that it is abusing this third, I can also say that Left has abused or used the crisis for this proposal to close trade at that time. I think that's clear to everyone, too. Even Ambassador Muršič, who is concerned with the people of the SD who have ruled for 10 years now, has not solved these things. Of course, Levi felt that it would be good to do something populist now at this time, given that the shops were closed on Sundays and so on, and people also got used to it, including merchants, they liked it and so on. I like that Levica thinks by knowing if anyone will settle this issue, that is, closing the stores on Sundays, will be John Janša or this government in this composition. I couldn't agree more. And I also believe that this government will solve it as soon as possible. The relationship between the government and the parliamentary group, we heard about it yesterday, we read about it in the media, it was immediately news, the media did a show about it, Janša against closing trades, we are Members for closing trades and so on. Of course they blew it up right away. On this occasion, I would read once again the tweet of the Prime Minister, as he wrote: "The trades will be closed on Sundays, except for the necessary exceptions agreed in the context of social dialogue. It is not appropriate to adopt such a law without prior consideration in the Economic and Social Council. That's why we have it." This was a tweet from the Prime Minister who, of course, can be understood in one way or another, but I think it is clear that the Ministry of Economy and Government must, of course, look at a little from a second point of view, for jobs, for economic development and so on, and only populistally, let us put it all behind us. Of course, there is an urgent need for social dialogue between employers, employees, chambers and so on, as announced by the President of the Government. And I believe they'll have a good conversation. I can also say this, for example, when you say some, that trade on Sundays could be open, for example, in tourist places and so on, I have heard: I agree, some, okay, because there will probably be some exceptions or whatever will be agreed, but I think that hospitality offers are also enough everywhere, I do not believe if tourists just after the sandwiches are going to trade in such tourist destinations on Sundays. Remember, too, that on Sundays police, railways, health care, firefighters and many others, as well as farmers, which I have not heard from Levice, have adopted a law that farmers do not need to work on Sundays. I allow traders, traders to be free on Sundays to make this their day, and I believe that the Government and all stakeholders in this process will also make a wise decision. Our Group of Members will not withdraw the point, will not make a presentation, will not gradually block the proposal, although this is the proposal of the Left, but will probably also support it today, and will probably later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Time's up. As the last member of the Council is Mr Luka Moon. Here you go. You're not going to discuss this anymore? Okay. Thank you. Then I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the votes. I hereby interrupt this point and the 17th session, which will be resumed by the vote at 17 and 30 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 4.56 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u174	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. Before proceeding to the voting procedure, I inform you that the State Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 9, 2, 3, 6, 7, 4, 5, 11 and 1. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the interim report on the parliamentary investigation of abuses and non-economic behaviour in the DUTB. We are moving on to a decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which are recorded in the Interim Report on pages 61 to 110, in the Additional Interim Report on pages 11 to 101 and II. Additional interim report on pages 13 to 144. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that you do not provide information from the Additional Interim Report and II in any possible explanation of vote. Additional interim report containing classified information or other information protected under the law. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 7. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry have been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 8. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. That concludes this point. We continue with the termination of the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance in the context of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 87 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 17. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. That concludes this point. We are moving on to the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Health Act in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am not informed that the proposal would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 87 votes against none. [[The vote was 87.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I'm informing you that I'm not informed that the bill would be uncoordinated. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Trade Act is appropriate for further consideration. Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. In Levika, we will certainly support this proposal on closing trade on Sundays. And the reasons are as follows. The crisis must be an opportunity to consider what kind of society we want to live in. And if I start a little bit plastic, this is where we talk about whether in the future we're going to give more freedom to capital or give it to human beings. If I do a little caricature, you have to ask yourself, would you rather live in the 19th or 20th century? In the 19th century, he had the freedom of capital. Economic thinking at the time was based on the working theory of value: for example, a person earns enough within 5 hours for his own existence, and then every extra hour he spends, he makes it for employers, he makes it for profit. And since the workers were not organized or protected by the state, the schedules were 10, 12, 14 hours a day, also 6, 7 days a week, worked by children and so on. This ended at the end of the century when they resisted the labor movement. The 20th century has set a different priority. It put a man first. So in the 20th century we got the formula 8 + 8 + 8, which means 8 hours you work, belongs to you 8 hours of rest and 8 hours of rest, of course free weekend. Well, now in the 21st century we're skating back. We skate back there, that schedules are getting longer, that work is often done over the weekend, that work is often overworked, that work is often done this afternoon, that work is pretended to be working in some industries even on Sundays. And this crisis is an opportunity to think about which direction we want to go. We ourselves in the Levica are very clear here, of course we want to live in the 20th century, which has given us the advantage of man, and we want to go this way also in the 21st century. And today, I believe, that we will vote our first step towards ending Sunday's work will be a good signal in this direction. The second thing that makes this important for our future is that, as a society, we have succumbed too much to the cult of work and consumption, we do what we do only to live and spend, which is not only harmful to us, but also to nature. We have already exceeded the planet's reconstruction capabilities in Slovenia on 26 April. And when we get Sunday as a day off in stores, it also says without spending, it will be a good start for us to start thinking about a more sustainable way of life that will allow us to survive on this planet.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u176	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 12. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Therefore, the proposal for a law will be allocated to the Committee on the Economy as a working body. That concludes this point. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Triglav National Park in the context of the reduced procedure. We continue to decide on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 25 May 2020, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB Group to Article 1. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 87 Members and Members present, 87 votes against none. [[The vote was 87.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB Group for a new address and a new Article 1.a. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 87 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Article 1 and to the new title and Article 1a. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these two articles. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am also not informed that the proposal would be inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Conservation of Nature in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue to decide on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 25 May 2020, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD groups to Article 3(1). If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 3a of the same proposal shall become irrelevant to Article 3a under Article 1 and to the title of Chapter Transitional and final provisions as these amendments are substantively linked. However, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to this Article will become irrelevant. Colleague Natasa Sukić, on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u177	Yes, on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you so much for saying that. With this amendment to Article 3, we are trying to prevent new potential anti-constitution in the parties of the Left, the LMŠ and the SD. We are trying to prevent the erosion of democracy, we are trying to prevent the participation of NGOs from being restricted in administrative and judicial proceedings when it comes to protecting nature. We are trying to prevent what happened in the Crown Act in the 42nd article, where the participation of NGOs in the construction activity has been hampered. This is about protecting nature. The law itself is essentially the transposition of the European Directive and the European Directive certainly does not recommend the confusion of NGOs, i.e. the setting up of obstacles to non-governmental organisations for their work. In short, this amendment seeks to harmonise Article 137 with the Non-Governmental Organisations Act in a way that all NGOs acting in the public interest in nature conservation are justified in administrative and judicial proceedings. The criteria for this have long been established and these criteria are what you want to bring down with Jelinčič-Vision's amendment and send us somewhere where it could be said that we have set a war forecast to preserve nature. We do not want these wars, and we want to remain a democratic, inclusive society, that NGOs are doing what is their mission. Of course, they must do so because the executive branch does not exercise it as it should. Unfortunately, the executive authorities have often become oblivious when it comes to the interests of capital, even dirty capital, which degrades the environment, such as those of Anhove and many others, such as fracking in Petišovci and so on. That is why, of course, we also want to adhere to Article 42 of the Constitution, which lays down the right to assembly and association, in order to adhere to the other articles of the Constitution, which could be undermined by the possible adoption of Vizjak-Jelinčič's attached amendment. We will vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u178	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 3(3). If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 3a becomes irrelevant, since the amendments are substantively linked. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 22. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD to Article 3 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 3a under Article 1 and to the title of Chapter Transitional and final provisions have become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 3a under Article 2. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 20. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendments to Articles 3 and 3a. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these articles. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am also not informed that the proposal would be inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Colleague Natasa Sukić, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u179	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members. As it is said, it is a law that provides for biodiversity conservation measures and a system for the protection of natural values in order to contribute to the preservation of nature. This is a transposition of the European directive, as I mentioned earlier. The basic law, if it is not framed or touched by the Vizjak-SNS amendment, which undermines basic standards, which lowers environmental standards indirectly by preventing the participation of non-governmental organisations, is of course all at once wrong. It is happening in the same way as in the second package of the Coronation Act in article 42, where you have opened the door wide open to dirty capital, which systematically violates laws in nature conservation, environmental protection, spatial planning, which in fact threatens the environment, nature and human health. Regrettably, the SNS party's amendment assists the government in ensuring that the same drastic conditions adopted by non-governmental organisations in the field of environmental protection in the issuance of building permits also apply to NGOs in the public interest. In short, it tightens the conditions. Even if you and your amendments have eased this condition a little, you have not really softened them. For these conditions are still sharper than those who perform these works, and of course cause destruction and degradation of the environment. What was triggered by the SNS's attempt to amend and what is apparently materialising with some cosmetic adjustments is that we are far from democratic standards, from participatoryism in this society and the country, from the possibility of independent, autonomous control, and far less than environmental standards; and in law, in transposing a directive that should at least keep these standards at a level that should be, if not even higher. Under such conditions it is virtually impossible to uphold such a law. And, of course, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u180	Thank you very much. My colleague, Rudy Medved, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u181	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we oppose changes to the law as proposed. Not only are we against it, we're against it. With the amendments of the opposition, we tried to save this law from mutilation, but when we warned that environmental protection standards are being drastically reduced, from the Minister of Environment and Space, who is actually the first environmentalist in this country, we have heard that we are using militarism, a militant vocabulary. But it is not militancy expressed precisely through the expulsion of environmental, nature-protection organisations from procedures in a way that is totally inappropriate. In a way that doesn't know any dialogue with those who are spoken of by law. We advocate the view that laws are written in dialogue, in agreement with those for whom we want an activity or anything else to be regulated. That's not what happened in this case. The largest European environmental organisations have also recognised this. The government received a letter reminding them that there was no public consultation and that all of this was followed by swift procedures. However, the amendment, which was first proposed, was so unhygienic that the coalition then frizzed the whole matter in a way that some nature-protection organizations experienced some sort of aboriginality. They do not meet the conditions, but you will place them on this list according to your criteria. But in front of Europe it will be just some fig leaf, if everything is all right at home, and on the other hand, it is also a matter of subjugating those who will defend the public interest, and you will tell them what this public interest is. We will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Comrade Primaj Siter, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u183	Thank you very much, President, for your word. In Slovenia or globally, we have already stepped across the edge of climate damage, which is extremely bad news. Countries are expected to step forward in addressing this problem, a step forward in actual, concrete policies that will actually stop the collapse of the planet. As this law itself as a transposition of the European directive is not bad, it is a worrying addition proposed by the Slovenian National Party and which does not make one, but two, three, four thousand steps back in the light of some progressive environmental policies. Why? Civil society always sets up a mirror for the state, always setting a mirror for the government. The more the state kneels, the more civil society is active. To what extent would we know about the situation in the nursing homes if we hadn't hired a silver thread here? And in the field of environmental protection, civil society is brilliantly organised. Take a look at the petition of the Balkan River Defence initiative, which has collected 20,000 signatures just as a reminder of what we are accepting today from Members and Members of Parliament. It is a step backwards in addressing the environmental and climate crisis, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u184	Comrade Duck, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, chairman. In each of the approximately normal societies and the country, the Minister of Environment and Space or Minister is the one who, in a government team based on the Constitution, protects the environment and space; not the interests of someone who wants to concrete. And in fact, this is the concept of this society, whose little cousin will be concrete, that no one will be burdened with it; especially because we do not know how long this government will last, because 5 billion will come from Europe and how we will be concrete. That's it if we put some big words aside. After six years, it is clear to me that the vast majority of Members and Members of the National Assembly do not read the Constitution. If I were to read it, I wouldn't be able to suggest something like that. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u186	My friend Robert Pavšič in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u187	Thank you very much. There are at least two reasons why no normal person can support this marriage. The first is legal because this amendment is unconstitutional and illegal. The second, which is substantive, is even more important. And the votes "for" are justified by various manoeuvres. I have closely monitored the creation of this story today, first through the committee and then through the hearing before the entire plenary assembly. And there was no credible argument on your part, at least for me. And the only thing I can predict right now is that the story is far from over, it will probably continue with another law, even more aggressive, more brutal. Yeah, you can lock up the protestors, but you can't shut their mouths, and you can't take their word. This time you're taking a legal interest. However, you cannot take their public interest away from them, so I will certainly absolutely and always oppose such proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u188	My colleague Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Now I'll be in my name, because I'll be brief. I didn't mention that before. See how greatly distorted Minister Viszak's view of the functioning of NGOs is, how he does not understand that civil dialogue with these organisations is needed. Cooperation and joint efforts to preserve nature are evidence of the way activists and activists of the Balkan River Defence were removed a few days ago from the ministry where they peacefully protested. Unfortunately, this government does not have the same vats for other self-organised people, citizens, members of the guard. Not even when they step into the police station, nor then are they dealt with in the way environmental activists were a few days ago; and this can be very worrying. This is the signal that clearly indicates that in this case, the door to dirty capital is open wide, the acceleration of some projects that are controversial, which may not yet have all environmental assessments, environmental permits. And now those who are advocates of the fact that everything is going legally. It is not the NGOs that stop projects, the government with reckless moves to support such unheard-of interventions into the environment, because otherwise the courts would not recognize that something is wrong, because NGOs are not judges, they simply warn and then go to court. If he falls or doesn't fall, the court sees whether there's legislation. This means that there are illegal interventions, and this must be prevented and we must be aware of what we are doing today if we are to adopt such a law. That is why, of course, I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u190	She's a colleague of Violet Tomic's in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. I will also vote against this law, which, under the cover of coordination with European directives, reduces the democraticity of managing administrative procedures and eliminates NGOs. All who support this law today may not have legal consequences, for in this country we obviously no longer respect the Constitution or the laws, but you will be judged by history. And I think we're getting closer to something worse, because I'm extremely sad to see peaceful protestors drive away with their marks and how aggressively and militarily this government is trampling on fundamental environmental and human rights with its boots. I must say that here you are opening the door to dirty capital, endangering the environment and health of people, not to say the rural population, which depends on land, water; land and water is their basic means of work. Minister Vizjak should be the first environmental defender to work some, I can tell you what the lobbyist laws are. All right, well, the SNS tabled this amendment, but they were defended by Minister Visjak, which is incomprehensible. And at a time when the whole of Europe, the whole world, America is talking about Green New Deal, we are thinking in a completely outdated, shameful and medieval way, whether we have a dilemma or a development or an environment. The wrong, false dilemma of people who are either bought or washed because it is impossible to otherwise support this. And as my fellow moon said before, on April 27th, we exceeded the planet's capabilities. Now we're going to knock everything down and destroy the human environment. Inadmissible and absolutely against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u192	My friend Željko Ciegler in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u193	Thank you very much. In my own name. Your Honor! I will vote against the amendments to the Nature Conservation Act. Why? By this law we renounce the green Slovenia. We give the capital free hands to continue or accelerate killing and destruction in Slovenia. This is very clear from the examples of Anhove, the 3rd development axis, the Trubovlje Lafarge, the pollution of Celje, the channel C0 in Ljubljana. Today, by this law, we are practically allowing capital to pursue its selfish goals, which the people of Slovenia will pay dearly. And those who will vote in favour of this kind of amendment of the law, Vizjak-Jelinčičev, will also take responsibility for this matter. I will personally vote against the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u194	My friend Miha Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u195	Thank you for your word, chairman. The current authorities are doing everything to prevent nature-guards from fighting in their noble struggle to preserve nature. This is not because environmentalists would not know what kind of doctors they want to show; eco-terrorists, as Minister Restorationšek said in the previous term. This is because, for the government of Janez Janša and his coalition, the profits of investors take precedence over human health; because fracking has priority over renewable energy sources because the highway with asphalt mafia has priority over the railway; because environmental intervention has priority over the welfare of the community. As if we don't have enough of this yet, we're going to get more poisoned fingers, polluted rivers, air that's not fit for human health. And, of course, I will vote against this law. The law bears the title – Nature Conservation Act. The coalition and the government, however, are transforming and turning it into their opposition, while they are going with the pendulum and the hubbub over anyone who tries to oppose them. The naturalists protested peacefully in front of the Ministry of the Environment. They sat on the ground, they wanted no harm, they wanted to protect the levers in the law that set up rivers, meadows, agricultural areas, groundwater and forests from profit. And the police came in and put them in a box like they're the biggest criminals; but real criminals have thick wallets and sit on [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u196	Thank you. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 30. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We're moving to 11. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to a joint hearing of the Proposal for the election of a candidate or candidate for a judge or a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg and the Proposal for the election of a candidate for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. On 11 February 2020, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed two candidates to elect one candidate, Nino Savin Bossiere and Juret Vidmar, as well as another judge in the same court. The National Assembly will further explain the applicant, present the views of the groups of Members, discuss the proposals and vote on the 11th and 11th points. In order to further explain the proposals, I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Natashi Kovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u197	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you so much for saying that. In June of last year, the Ministry of Justice issued a renewed call for a candidate or candidate for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. The President has received eight nominations. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considered that all 8 candidates were eligible for this function, and the Council of Justice also considered it, with the President of the Republic also communicating his proposal to the two most suitable candidates. The law allows the President of the Republic to propose to the National Assembly for election more candidates than is necessary. In a specific case, the President of the Republic decided to refer two proposals to the General Court for a single candidate or candidate. Nina Savin Bossiere, a graduate lawyer, is a graduate of the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana with a completed postgraduate study at the University of Paris. Since the beginning of his career he has been engaged in European law. She is employed in the General Court in Luxembourg, first of all in the Judge's Office, and currently in the Chamber of the President of the Court. Its work includes the preparation of content at all stages of the decision-making of almost all areas of the General Court’s competence. During almost thirteen years of work as an expert at the General Court, she has gained invaluable experience in the handling of cases brought before the Court, as well as in the functioning of the General Court itself and its services. Since 2015, in the framework of a Master's course at the Faculty of Law, Economics and Finance in Luxembourg, he has presented the subject of the Law of Public Procurement in the European Union. The invitation of the President of the General Court to work in his office shows recognition for her work so far, which is characterized by a broad knowledge of European Union law and high professional competence for judicial work. Through experience she has also gained the necessary degree of authority for independent decision-making. The President of the Republic considers that Mrs Nina Savin Bossiere, on the basis of her long professional work in the various areas of the work of the Court, her excellent knowledge of European law and the reputation she enjoys, is a suitable candidate for the proposed function. Professor Jure Vidmar, Ph.D. and Doctor of Legal Sciences, further acquired a Master of Law at Nottingham University in the UK in 2006. The following year, at the University of Salzburg in Austria, he was a doctorate in democratic political theory and then in 2009 he was a doctorate in law at the University of Nottingham. Dr. Vidmar has a long history of outstanding and diverse academic careers. As a post-doctrinator at the University of Amsterdam Law School, he studied human rights law; at the University of Oxford Law School he was a researcher; and in the academic year 2013/2014 he survived as a guest member of Harvard Law School. He is a regular professor of international public law and head of the Department of the same name in the Department of International and European Law of the Faculty of Law of the University of Maastricht. He works with the Max Planck Institute for International European and Regulatory Procedural Law in Luxembourg, is an ad hoc judge at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and a member of the arbitral tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. Dr. Vidmar teaches at the most prestigious universities and conferences around the world. In 2014, he was the only English language in the United Kingdom to reach second place in awarding the prestigious Birks Award for his outstanding contribution to legal science. He is the author of numerous books and professional articles with a high degree of visibility in the academic international space. Professor Jure Vidmar gained great reputation and broad knowledge in many areas of legal science through his teaching research work at the most prestigious institutions. The President of the Republic considers that Professor Jure Vidmar, due to his exceptional professional and academic knowledge, as well as the practical experience and breadth gained in his work, is a suitable candidate for the post of candidate for the General Court. The President of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to elect one of the two candidates as a candidate or candidate for a judge or a judge in the General Court. May I continue, President, even with an explanation for another procedure? Thank you very much. During the month of March last year, the Ministry of Justice also republished the call for another vacant seat of Judge at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. The President has received six nominations for this seat. For all six, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has assessed that they are appropriate, as well as the Council of Justice, which has also communicated its proposal to the President for the most suitable candidate of them. After examining the candidates and all the consultations, the President of the Republic decided, and forwarded a proposal to the National Assembly to propose an election. Prof. Dr. Klemen Podobnik, Doctor of Law Science, Professor of Civil and Economic Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. After obtaining his master's degree at Columbia University in New York and his doctoral title at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, he continued his professional career at this university mainly as a leading expert in civil and economic law, intellectual property law and competition law. In 2015 he became an outstanding professor of civil and economic law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, where he has several subjects, including corporate law and intellectual property law. In 2016 he was appointed guest professor at Riga Graduate School of Law in Latvia. He is also a mentor of numerous degrees and masters and doctoral dissertations. It works in research and scientific fields, is the author of many articles in Slovenian and foreign professional journals and co-author of several scientific monographs. Dr. Podobnik is one of the leading legal experts in competition law in the Republic of Slovenia. He co-formed the content and form of the subject Law of the European Union, which was introduced long before the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. He has long experience in the various professionally demanding tasks of the academic field, where he has also gained the necessary leadership experience. The candidate is an expert in intellectual property law and competition law, which constitute a large part of the scope of the work of the General Court in Luxembourg. It shows very good knowledge of the General Court's functioning and also has a clear vision of its professional contribution to its work. On the basis of the above, the President of the Republic considers it to be a source. Prof. Dr. Klemen Podobnik is a suitable candidate for the proposed city and will be able to contribute significantly to the development of the legal areas of the General Court and to carry out the entrusted task with the highest degree of expertise, diligence and integrity. The President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly that Dr. Klemen Spožnik elect a candidate for Judge of the General Court in Luxembourg. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u198	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to the vote on the proposal to elect a candidate or candidate for a judge or a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg and on the proposal to elect a candidate for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the election of candidates for two Judges at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg, the National Assembly shall decide by secret vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are Franz Breznik of the SDS Group, Andreja Zabret of the LMŠ Group, Boštjan Koražija of the Left Group and Blaž Pavlin of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Jernej Bergoč will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 3. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two votes shall be delivered to the Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name. It shall be voted on by the first ballot, where two candidates are listed for one seat of the court, in a sequence number before the name of the candidate or candidate for which the vote is taken. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the candidate for which the majority of all Members and Members will vote will be elected, that is 46 or more. In the second ballot, where only one candidate is listed as a judge, a vote shall be taken by surrounding the word in favour or against. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the proposed candidate will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. However, there is also an invalid voice, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. There is also an invalid ballot on which two candidates are listed for one court seat in case they are both surrounded. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members of Parliament will submit the completed votes to the ballot box, which will be placed at the table next to the voting booths. Before we move to a secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that, during a secret vote in the Chamber, persons who do not participate in the vote shall not have access to the Chamber; therefore, I call upon all the experts of the groups sent to leave the Chamber at that time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 6:30 p.m., which is in 10 minutes, and will last until 18.45 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the 17th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 19.15. (The sitting was suspended at 18.19 and resumed at 19.15.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u199	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned 17th session. We continue with the end of the 11th point, namely the Proposal for the election of a candidate or candidate for a judge or a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg and the Proposal for the election of a candidate for a judge at the General Court in Luxembourg. The vote was held at the National Assembly on 27 May 2020. I am talking about the outcome of the vote on the election of Dr Klemna Podobnik. 84 votes were distributed, 84 votes were cast, 3 votes were invalid, 81 votes were valid. 78 members voted against by the three Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Klemen Podobnik was elected by the majority of the votes of all Members as a candidate for Judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. Dr. Clemna, congratulations on your election. Let me also read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the election of a candidate for judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg, where we had two candidates. 84 ballots were distributed, 84 ballots were delivered, 37 were invalid, 47 were valid. The candidates received the following number of votes: Nina Savin Bossiere 11 votes in favour, Jure Vidmar 36 votes. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, none of the proposed candidates received the required majority vote for election. In this context, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, we will vote again on as many candidates as it is necessary to elect candidates for judges from the International Court of Justice, which is one candidate. We will vote on the candidate who won the most votes in the first vote, this is about Juret Vidmar. We continue to examine the Proposal for the election of a candidate for Judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word in favour or against. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the proposed candidate will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote, that is 46 or more. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Before we proceed to the secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that persons who are not involved in the vote shall not be allowed to vote during secret ballots in the Chamber. That is why I call on all the experts of the parliamentary groups to leave the Chamber at this time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 19.25 p.m. and will last until 19.40 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the 17th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 19.55 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 7.20 p.m. and resumed at 19.55 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u200	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned 17th meeting of the Assembly. We continue with the end of the 11th point, this is the proposal for the election of a candidate or candidate for a judge or a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. Let me read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the election of Juret Vidmar as Judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. The vote was held at the National Assembly on 27 May 2020. 80 ballots were distributed, 80 ballots were delivered, 9 ballots were invalid, 71 were valid. 40 members voted against 31. Jure Vidmar did not receive the majority of the votes of all Members, so he was not elected a candidate for Judge in the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. As the candidate has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges from international courts, new elections shall be held on the basis of new nominations. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a president and two members of the Board of the Energy Agency. The proposal was tabled by the Government. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that appoints Dr. Roman Jordan to the Council of the Energy Agency for a period of six years as President and Dr. Borut Bratina and Aleš Ferlež as a member. The mandate starts at 12. 6. 2020. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Krske. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of the Magi. Maruše Bartol in judicial capacity at the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Krske. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision, by which the Court of Justice of the District Court in the District Court in Krske is elected mag. Marousha Barthol. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 68 votes against 1. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Kranj. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of the Magi. Monika Mihelčič in judicial function at the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Kranj. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision, by which a mag is elected to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Kranj. Monica Mihelčič. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We move to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Jožef Kocovan as a member to the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant as a member, for the remainder of the term of office of the Supervisory Committee appointed by the Decision appointing the President and nine members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant of 29. 1. 2020. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibility of holders of public functions on the programme of child cardiology and on the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 4. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission of Inquiry on the determination of alleged money laundering in NKBM, d.d., the alleged illegal financing of the SDS political party and the alleged illegal financing of the SDS electoral campaign for early election of Members to the 2018 National Assembly. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc has the text. My friend Brana Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u201	Thank you very much. This decision today, a well-respected coalition, is just another act of your misbehaviour, which you have been portraying since the masked but so transparent first government meeting. Only the naive don't want to admit what they have in common is the exchange of leaders at the National Investigation Office, the Anti-Money Laundering Office and the Criminal Police. Of course, you also know why it was necessary to head these institutions. Leaders from these institutions and others had to leave because they had to march into the temple, i.e. the party of the SDS and its business. From leased loans to Dijana Djudžić and alleged money laundering to suspicions of multi-million-dollar Hungarian media financing close to SDS. And there's more to it than that. In addition to the sacrament, however, they shuddered at the president of the SMC as they instituted a forecasting procedure concerning the purchase of protective equipment, and they also shuddered at the President of New Slovenia as an investigation into alleged KNOVS offences is under way. And now they shall polish this sanctuary and the servants, and shall smooth out new trusts, and trust that they shall discover nothing, that all things are good and good, fair, lawful and economic. The beautiful new world of Janez Janša, Zdravka Pavlovska, Matej Tonin and Aleksandre Pivec. But you haven't had enough, have you? Following is the establishment of an investigative commission to be led by your man in the matter of protective equipment that is not going to go into the disputed affairs of this government - I am sure of that - at all. On the contrary, she will protect and cherish the temple, and the investigator will be an investigator at the same time. The same will be true of the commission of inquiry on the identification of alleged money laundering in the New Credit Bank Maribor and the alleged illegal financing of the SDS party, its campaign and the media. In this commission of inquiry, you cut off the president, who came a long way with the investigation, so you replaced him with your choice. Scary and transparent, but she washes her hand. Your goal is not to investigate, but to cover up and cover up, to investigate yourself. No one is to blame in this government, and elephants fly in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u202	The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. My colleague Janja the Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u203	A number of parliamentary investigations have already taken place in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism. These were different political colors and tastes and spread across the spectrum — left, middle and right. In particular, they were intended to determine the actual state or political responsibility of the holders of public functions to amend legislation in a particular area and other decisions of the National Assembly under its constitutional jurisdiction. Not the coalition or the opposition, but the National Assembly, based on public interest, on matters of public interest. The Commission of Inquiry cannot therefore be the committee of one Member or its President, who, by the way, has cut himself off. The rules governing the establishment, operation and choice of their membership are clear. Two key business demands are that, if a parliamentary inquiry is initiated at the request of a third of Members, all parliamentary groups in the Board of Inquiry shall have the same number of members and the President shall be elected from the Members who have applied for it. No more and no less. In recent days, we have listened vehemently to the evidence that, on the basis of the amendment to the draft decision we are making today, the coalition will investigate itself after a new one. Don't hold it. It will continue to investigate the political responsibility assigned to the subject matter of the investigation. This does not change and does not eliminate political pressures, whether they are coalition or opposition. The parties to the modern centre have belonged to the President since the start of the commission, and we have not given up so simply because some would just like to. However, we wonder how the opposition colleagues would characterise the nature of this investigative commission if it were led by someone else who would still be a member of the coalition parliamentary group. Would this also mean that the coalition is investigating the coalition if the Commission were to continue to lead the way? Would a wolf be fed and a goat before? If such an argument were to be used, then no one should ever investigate anyone, since political responsibility is most often identified in a longer period of time when the authorities were exchanging in the hands of different political options, and in particular because the identification of political responsibility does not have only a left or right or coalition-oppositional omen. The investigative commission is not a tool of the opposition to investigate the coalition, or vice versa. In particular, it is a tool for Parliament as a legislative branch of government to identify the political responsibility of all holders of public functions. No one cuts off their heads or disables the work of the commission. We will deal with this sooner, faster and more effectively, this commission will be able to continue its work already started. In the SMC Group, we will make every effort to do so, and we call for the other parliamentary groups to continue doing so. We would also like to see this effort continue by the parliamentary groups that are now in opposition. We will, of course, support the subject matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u204	The word is given by the Left Party. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u205	Thank you very much, President. This should be a point where there is usually no position, not a controversy, but something procedurally routine, but it obviously cannot be so under this new coalition. Since the first day of this government’s appearance, since March 13, we have witnessed, although the government has reportedly been busy 24 hours a day with the peak of the epidemic, that it has apparently managed to deal with the changes in some time. As has already been said, with exchanges in investigative bodies, exchanges in law enforcement, intelligence, the military, and so on. At the same time, this government and this coalition will succeed in attacking anyone who thinks otherwise in dealing with the epidemic. Mr. Janez Janša tweets furiously for hours and attacks journalists, intellectuals, people who cycle or protest on bicycles. The same is done by the Foreign Minister, who has been bringing forward an agenda that we have known with the SDS party for almost 20 years, with attacks on justice, attacks on journalists; and this from the position of foreign minister and in the international public. Today's change of management of the Bureau of Statistics is a bit unusual. It is even more interesting that the task of the new leadership will statistically quantify the effects of the anti-korona packages proposed by the government. This call to janshim — these are the symptoms of this Januaryism, which has been mentioned recently — is apparently moving more and more to the National Assembly. We see it daily mainly with the help of small parties to this coalition in this national assembly, and I will say that these calls are also spreading excessively in recent times and are eating heavily the state of democracy in this house. This was shown for the first time, of course, when we proposed in the opposition to investigate controversial purchases of protective equipment when the ruling coalition or SDS proposed its investigator; and one of the members who led the investigation into the NKBM case and the alleged illegal financing of the SDS also turned out to be the opposition parliamentary group. One of the key words of this coalition is the diversion that we have also heard in the previous position. We all know that investigative committees are highly dependent on who runs them. I think it is very important who is at the head of this commission of inquiry, because it is up to him, which direction and how this commission of inquiry will work. In the previous term, we had a president of one of the investigative commissions investigating the contentious transactions at TES, who also materialized in criminal proceedings a few weeks ago; and we know from close to what it means to run a commission. And now to say that it's something that belongs to the SMC and that it doesn't matter if it's a coalition party that's going to investigate essentially the business and the actions of the largest coalition party on which it depends, anyway, is nothing more than swindling. And this is the mode of operation of this coalition, to go with all means, at all costs through any democratic procedure. We see this in this commission of inquiry, but we see it elsewhere, including the way emergency laws have been enacted lately. In Levica, of course, we will not open this decision or vote against it, because it is nothing more than the fox itself determining who will investigate the theft of eggs in a henhouse.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u206	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. Comrade Möderndorfer, explanation of vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u207	Thank you very much, President. We will vote against it for the reasons given by the leader of the Group in his position. But let me tell myself what I was hoping for, that I wouldn't have to tell you. I heard a statement days ago that it's not really who's running the committee that matters, but that it's important that we deal with content. If that is true, why did the President have to be replaced, if only the content was important?Oh, my God! This committee could be run by anyone. You imagine an investigation being conducted by someone at the National Investigation Office (NPU) and being led for quite some time, and then the government changes and someone changes the NPU. We all know that this is happening in practice, and we all know what people think about it. Trust just gets lost. The appearance of impartiality disappears and more or less — even if someone is anxious and is trying to do something — he no longer has this credibility. In the beginning, the commission of inquiry carried out the work of the NKBM and carried it out. Someone also said a few days ago that I was professionally and organizationally incompetent because there was no interim report. Of course, on purpose, to discredit a person. But the fact is that the matter is finished, ready; and it will be interesting to watch the new President read and represent these views, which he has never seen before, but will present them as if he had actually prepared them. Two, which is even more important. We have begun to investigate what we had on the table, which is the conclusion of the Court of Auditors and the Court, which has also taken a decision. We are no longer talking about 450 000 euros; we are talking about millions, severe millions. I look forward to the results of the investigative commission when it has finished its work and to the president's report. However, I am afraid that we will reach a point already known in this House and in history. The report will not wait for its day; whether the report will be issued, and Parliament will never discuss it; and what is most sad is that, for at least 40 years, the story in the basement will be buried and it will remain only here. I will personally try to do everything that the truth comes once a day, because citizens are obliged to know it, because what I know now is not nice; what they need to know is terrible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u208	Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u209	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The SMC somehow refers to the gentleman's agreement that they had in the previous coalition to keep the presidency to them; but the fact is that SMC's party was in the previous coalition, to put it mildly, in a slightly different arrangement for the SDS visa, which is the subject of this investigation. They were then on opposite shores; this time they are a coalition partner; hence this gentleman's agreement can no longer apply. At the same time, they forget that we have had opposition and coalition in Slovenia for the last 30 years just to have control of the authorities, that it does not occur that the parties in power are investigating themselves. That is why we have the opposition and the coalition, and in all the investigative commissions so far, it has been in principle that we have investigated TES 6 in Levica, for we have been the opposition party and because we have nothing to do with it. That the SDS investigated the sins of the previous central governments and the parties to the centre investigated the sins of the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is the first time we've ever been in a position where a coalition partner is investigating a coalition partner, a dot. Secondly, you say that the commission is not just a commission of presidents, but it is a parliamentary commission of inquiry. The President shall organise the work of the Commission, the President shall draw up an agenda and invite the members of the panel to be examined. Finally, the President is preparing draft interim and final reports. The President shall carry out the left-wing share of the work carried out by the Commission of Inquiry. But it is true that I don't believe that this will happen this time by the commission led by the president, because this will always be under the threat of any disclosure creating an uproar in the coalition. As you resolve it, we've already seen it. You're going to organize a meeting on the Hill and you're going to make sure everything's okay. You don't really need a president, you need someone to sign this. What kind of mindset will be on the Hill, was last shown by Alenka Jeraj on Twitter when she wrote about: About the affair Djudžić was already told. It was a violation of the law, and we returned the money and apologized. In a normal country, this would be done, which is about as if anyone paraphrased and said - I robbed the safes of the SKB, they caught me, it was a crime, I returned the money and apologized. In a normal country, that would be the end of the matter. You can judge the absurdity of this. But I'm talking about him, because I can tell you right now what the suspense of this final report is going to be. I wouldn't even accept it in Gregor Perič's place because it's not worth hiding such acts for a five-grade salary. No government is eternal, and so is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u210	I've got two reported from SD. Who will speak for the House? Comrade Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u211	Thank you very much, President. We all know that the Commissions of Inquiry in the Rules of Procedure have their foundation. But we all know why the Commissions of Inquiry are being set up in some way. In order to determine the political responsibility of certain persons or parties. But it's some kind of control, some kind of mirror setting. And my dear colleagues from the SMC, if you remember a year ago, it's not nice to hang out with another job. I'll tell you why. This investigative committee, this content was written in the LMŠ. Or did we agree to that; not about that. Since LMŠ was young, the new client said that she would not deal with it and that she did not have such a qualified staff, they offered it to Möderndorfer and you took over. But from the first word to the last word, it's the work of LMSH. And today, you're smooth-forwarding, and the papers they wrote in the LMSH, you're taking over. It's fine, too. You have a majority, you have a Perich who might even do it great or he'll do something different. But all these investigative committees that are now taking place in this national council, my dears, it's throwing mud in the eyes. First of all, this investigative commission will go its way with Mr Peric, the investigative commission on masks that you have two hours ahead of you, will go its own way. And what did we do? Nothing. You do have presidents, some have better salaries, secretaries, ficussions and your offices. That'll be the only thing that'll happen to these investigative committees. Everything else, my dears, is the weight of our citizens and citizens. Everything else is a stretch, I apologize for these words in this national assembly, our citizens and citizens. But I'm a Democrat, I know you have a majority, go ahead, search, search, make your stories. What the end of the story will be, no one knows. But I don't think that's good for democracy. After all, in addition to democracy, there is also a gentleman's agreement. And it's going to be very hard for you to study and look for what's wrong with what's wrong with most of you. And it will probably be very difficult now, too, for Perič, who is your coalition partner, to break the hands of some who have done some irregularities. But the thing is yours. You have a majority. I wish you good luck, but you know, the mandate will be replaced, the new elections will be held, and I hope we have more luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u212	Mr Krivec, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. We will support this change. I am surprised, however, at some of the speakers who are filled with the mouth of democracy and that the rules of the game, rules of procedure, laws and so on must be followed. At the moment when all of this is in accordance with all the rules, they are problematic. The former was mentioned by the investigator TES, a colleague from the Left. You don't know enough about this investigator as to how it went. At that time, it was also the principle of what colleague Matjaž wishes to point out that the chairman will lead this commission in some direction as he wishes; it did not work that way. Have you forgotten? And you can't count. In all the investigative commissions established at this time or to be established, the opposition will have a majority, however you turn. And it's not fair that you're deceiving viewers and those who listen to the fact that in the commission of inquiry, most of them have the one who sets it up. That's not true. Each Commission of Inquiry shall be drawn up in such a way that each Group of Members may give one member. And I hope you know how to hurt. There are 5 parties in the opposition, which means 5 members; there are 4, regardless of who presides. Nor is it true that the Chairman leads the entire investigation after his knowledge. All members shall vote on it. Ask your previous colleague, Mr Hanžk, how this has been done, and you will see that it is not as you say. And stop fooling around. The replacements, which were also discussed by a fellow speaker, were made by you when you took the government. Cerar's government did the same, and no one bothered to replace the NPU, the police, and all the other authorities. But now everything is wrong and equally democratic and equally in relation to all the rules in force in this country. And stop fooling around. In the investigative commissions to be set up at this time, the opposition always has a majority. If he doesn't have a chairman, it doesn't mean anything. Investigative decisions shall be taken by the members of the Commission, not by the President himself. Take a closer look at the rules of procedure of the commission of inquiry. If this Perič will lead or anyone else, Mr Möderndorfer has had one and a half years to prepare and produce something to accept, he has not done so. It is said that it is not up to the President to find or find anything in the investigation, but on those involved. In this way, I hope that this investigator will be brought to a close; however, I do not know if the conclusions to be adopted there will be realized, as they are not in the New KBM investigation, where decisions on the complaints of certain people have been adopted in the National Assembly, but they are not being processed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u214	Procedurally, colleague Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u215	Procedurally, the President, on the basis of Article 69, just to warn you, we all had little to do with, but most of all Mr Krivec – when he reasoned on his voice, he has nothing to do with the other. Explains how he will vote. We're at this stage, we're at this stage, and it's only right to warn you that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u216	Gradually, colleague Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u217	Thank you. Since you haven't responded, I have the same procedure as Matjaž Han, that was a controversy, not an explanation for the vote. The explanation of vote must not be controversial, because neither do I have the right to reply, nor does our Group of Members have the right to reply. In my implementation, I have not disputed with anyone from before. I said a few things that weren't controversial, while Daniel Krivec kept looking me in the eye and dealing with my position. So please warn him that this is an explanation of the voice and not a controversy. [[advertising from the hall]] If I may conclude, I have two more minutes of time, and it must not be disputed in explanation of vote. Since he's the one who's been politicized, I'm only going to say three sentences. First, Levi has never been in the government, secondly, the kind of personnel tsunami that you do is not yet anyone; and thirdly, we know that there are 5 parties in the coalition, see how the fifth you attribute to the opposition quota usually votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u218	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you not to abuse procedure. Please. Each of you has the opportunity to explain his own voice. First of all, we have an explanation for the vote on behalf of the members of the groups, then you will all have the opportunity to explain your vote on your own behalf. As far as this debate is concerned, whether someone in his own explanation of vote is questionable or not, you are all well aware that the border is very thin in the meantime. I'm going to try to get as low as possible into what you're explaining as an explanation for the voice, because if I go too far, then we're not going anywhere. I suggest that all those you want who feel challenged by somehow wrapping this up in your explanation of voice and perhaps in this way telling back to the one you think you have to tell him anything. I propose that we first go through explanations of vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups and then on to the individual. Collegiate Janja Servant on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u219	Thank you. I will first take advantage of the first part of which I will point out that the first to come forward with a procedural one is also the first to challenge, with our parliamentary group and look it in the eye in the meantime. Now I'm going to start with an explanation. I'm afraid that some of you who have previously responded are replacing some of the authorities in this country. What you're talking about will have to – and I hope – someone else will – find out. This Commission of Inquiry will identify a different responsibility. I would also like to point out that there is already a commission where a coalition partner is investigating, among other things, a coalition partner, and that is not us, but of course it does not bother anyone there. Let me also point out that a colleague would also be a member of the coalition if, of course, he remained in our parliamentary group. And in such a case, I didn't detect any opposition, so I wouldn't be president. And when I'm talking about who's messing with someone else's feathers and who's actually written the right thing, let me just say that this was our expert associate, not the LMSH. And this expert co-worker is still working on this committee today, and he's done a left-wing share of this work on this committee, besides, of course, the President, so that there's no mistake in denying anyone anything. But there are two experts who work very well and have done a lot and will continue with this work. The Commission cannot, cannot be – and I hope not – a committee of one man. I hope not. As has been said, each parliamentary commission of inquiry shall consist of one member of each parliamentary group. And if you're still turning and not turning like that, at this point, the opposition has the majority in it. The purpose of the Modern Centre Party, to which you are right, belongs under a gentlemen's agreement, to which the opposition has been citing all the time for the last two months, and now it challenges us; our aim is to continue and continue it properly. My colleague Perič is certainly able to do so, as well as both professional colleagues, who will continue their work here. And once again, as I have said before, I strongly hope that you will exercise your verbal constructiveness and also participate in this committee. I will, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u220	Mr Jože Horvat, on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a decision. Today, on May 27th, he was also 27th, but in January, when Marjan Sarec resigned, he applauded coalition partners; and this was a mistake for this country. If I hadn't done that, there wouldn't be this mutual accusation today. Here's the original sin. It's interesting that after 121 days the memory goes out. Deception is who says we have a majority because we're talking about an investigator. Nine is equal to five plus four, in favor of the opposition, and a dot. And I regret that there is real hatred between us, colleagues and colleagues. Here you tore up a fellow Perič, who has not yet said to him, nor did he say “a” on this investigation, on a new post that he does not yet have, because we have not yet voted. I regret that. We've come so far, there's so much intolerance. I know it hurts, but I'm not a psychotherapist. And our call is that we actively - actively - participate in all the parliamentary groups, not just this one, in all the investigators. We have had a case where one Member did not go to the investigative commission on vein linings at all. Why, let's leave. And one more thing, and I'm gonna look into your eyes. Our colleague mentioned the Minister of Mags. Matthew Tonin, I hear he's in some kind of process. And he's out loud. And I'm just adding, this procedure that my colleague mentioned is going to be laughed at one more time. If I were Loise Janko, Minister of Law of the Peterlet Government 30 years ago, I would say, "It's a time when incapacitated people aren't capable of incapacitated." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Dušan Šiško on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u223	Thank you, President. I have to stop by and make sure no one thinks we're not in here, that we're not here. Dear colleagues from the Left, it's time for you to stop crying. You were a super-collective client, and we all know who's responsible for the first government's collapse, and stop blackmailing. When we said we'd confirm the rebalancing, you were done blackmailing. Everyone in here knows, including the viewers watching us. Until then, you blackmailed, ask yours, now the opposition, the party who vanquished the first government. And every time he grows up, he stops crying. You obviously won't until we go to the polls. And from this point of view, here today I am going to tell you that we will support this proposal. We don't care whether Jani, Greg, Daniel or Matjaž, my colleague; we will support, let's start working. Although this commission; Ange had a commission, Jelka, and they proved something, but where did we come from?Oh, my God! You were sitting in there, talking to each other, and there was never any realisation. At least I didn't get that information.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u224	There's a colleague of Luke Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u225	Thank you. Mr President, be really stricter with regard to Article 69, because it was once again a sort of controversy. We do not have the opportunity to respond to the explanations of vote, so it is not disputed here. And secondly, I thank my colleague in essence for confirming what I said earlier. The party from which he spoke is not the opposition, but it is something called the systemic opposition in Hungary and Russia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u226	I have already explained how the controversy and compliance with this article is. Comrade Duck, explanation in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u227	Thank you so much for saying that. The masks are falling, and I'm gonna take it down myself. I'll look into the paper sheet so you won't tell me who I'm looking at. In addition to waving with his hands Runk exercises with his brain, this today you have trolled how terrible I am and up and down; many have not. The first government was hit by that DZ, Sharčev's two own ministers and Sharčev's own stupidity, pike, over. I was in another party at the time, and I went to some coordination when 95% of the money was covered. At that time, in particular the so-called Slovenian liberals, including Desus, SMC and SAB, began to mine it. You forget something else, including a Prekmurski colleague, and Janez Janša did not even hope to form a government 2018, after the elections. Fuck, let's get serious about this, too. A gentleman's agreement, these days a lot of people are wondering about a client, and I'm not going to call it how they've changed, up, down. I don't buy it after six years in politics. Each one of us is not only bad, but politics will also give you a light — on Nova24TV bad, and someone really looks like an egg — so that they can show you when you're bad. And you can have gentlemanly arrangements with ladies and gentlemen. And some lady who is here now, I'm sorry, she's not a lady anymore, and you can't have a gentleman's agreement anymore. That's actually it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u228	My friend Runk, hold on a second. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u229	But can you let me speak for once? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u230	No, stick to some order.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u231	baptised devil [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u232	Comrade Runk, I'm warning you. I'm warning you. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u233	What about you who insult you all the time, Pojbich, who behaves like a monkey, give peace! May I continue?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u234	Go on, no offense.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u235	I'm very polite. I think the insults could be even deeper, because with Jani, I know all that stuff. In the middle of my previous term, I was at the Hungarian Embassy, and I said that if Levica was in the government, Madam Ambassador, you would be in Mladika and you would be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u236	Comrade Runk, calm down. You're running out of time. Colleague Natasa Sukič, explanation in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u237	Thank you, Chairman. Despite the fact that you have declared war on nature with another law today, one natural phenomenon typical of Slovenia will remain regardless of all the ministers who will change. And that's the famous proteus or human fish that we know is a amphibian. And I will find it very interesting and exciting to actually observe our parliamentary protéus, called the SNS, which is at the same time a sub-coalition or subcontractor of the coalition, which today has clearly demonstrated with its contributions and with its incredible contributions to this and that which also shows. I think our protéus is really going to give the credibility of this committee, and I can't give such a vote to the committee, so I'm going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u238	My friend Baković, in his own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u239	Any exchange of investigators or investigators, whether in the police, in the NPU or the State Prosecutor’s Office; a state prosecutor who runs a large-scale case; and any exchange may be just two — whether it is a tactical or criminal methodological mistake to say no tactical error; or a premeditated manoeuvre. However, the result is always the same; in any case, the matter never ends by revealing the truth and not being sufficient for justice. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u240	Colleagues in the right corner of the hall, please be quiet. My friend Buckowitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u241	Thank you. Whether this is a tactical error or a premeditated manoeuvre, it is likely that voters will eventually be judged. But as I said before, the result will always be the same. Either way, it's a mistake or it's an intentional thing, the truth won't come on the day. And that is why I will vote against it today. I want anyone who pushes for it to imagine what he's done with it and what kind of message he's giving to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u242	My friend Kordish, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u243	Thank you for your word, chairman. SMC's supposed to be investigating SDS. This is the same SMC that is with the same SDS in the same government and in the same coalition. Together they steal protective equipment, together they eliminate nature and environment-protectors [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u244	A little silence.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u245	jointly account with political opponents, together with public funds, budget money, transfer to their chosen ones in the economy. Name of this game – commissions. Well, for Janez Janša a little more authority than commissions, for Zdravka Počvalška and his client commissions certainly in the first place. And what result can we really expect if these two partners in crime are found on the investigative commission on opposite shores?Oh, my God! The only result that will come out of this is that Zdravko Restoršek will receive an additional budget candy from Janez Janša, will build another tourist holding in exchange for silence, in exchange for sweeping under the carpet the contents that the investigative commission would have to disclose, but of course they will not. They won't be because of this power ratio I just described. SMC is involved in the impact of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the country, the impact on the budget, on the police, on the environment, on democracy; practically there is no longer an Instant in that country to which this government and this coalition would not be targeted. The profession is in disfavor, when it is in a pitiful state, simply replaces people, such as the NIJ. He's getting into the media and now he's getting into the next step of sabotaging the control tools held by the National Assembly with his coalition [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u246	Mate Matjaž, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u247	I'll help you, Igor, if you can. I think this speech should also be stopped if we are now strict with everyone. Because if we want to raise some level in this national assembly and people outside won't fight each other, we can't say in this national council that someone is stealing and so on, we can't. And now you're gone and let's try to keep some level. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u248	Comrade Matjaž, I welcome your encouragement. I hope the next time I stop him, you won't all get up and obstruct the session. Colleague Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u249	Thank you, President, for your word. We're talking about an investigative commission that finds the alleged laundering of illegal money in New KBM. This is an extremely important matter which has already been addressed in the previous mandate and also in this mandate. Since the President has been extremely well involved in this story, that he has processed and reviewed huge amounts of material, all of us who have ever participated in any investigative committee know how many members who participate in the commission themselves are processed, how many members of the area can, in fact, have many other activities; and the President has most of this responsibility. Therefore, it is extremely important that the continuity continues, for time is gold. And in this national assembly, after almost four years, it would be time for this commission of inquiry to come to an end. And that is why today I am voting absolutely against the proposed decision. Not because of my colleague Perič, I simply can't say anything about his work so far, but in fact, the President has the greatest weight and he knows the matter. And regardless of all this happening we have, I hope that the elections will be held as soon as possible, to set new foundations without customers, which are barely detected today by public research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u250	Thank you very much. My friend Marko Koprivc in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u251	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. What we are listening to today is just another step in the establishment of a Jancist dictatorship. Just like you are. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] May I finish?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u252	All right, all right. Okay. A little peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u253	Just as you have dealt with the headship of democratic and independent media [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u254	Wait a minute, respectable fellows, fellows! If we need a break, we'll have a break in half an hour. Let's just calm down! Just a little bit longer. There'll probably be a few more of these. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u255	Does that count in my time?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u256	It's a stopwatch. Wait a minute! It's too late, though. I believe there is a great deal of work for some, but I suggest that we be as patient and listen to what someone has to say. Comrade Koprivc, proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u257	Thank you very much, President, for allowing me to speak in Parliament. I repeat. This is just another step towards establishing a Jancist dictatorship where SMC, Desus and all coalition parties participate [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u258	All right, all right!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u259	By doing so, you have literally spearheaded the work of the commission of inquiry. Tell me, if it is normal for an investigative commission to investigate the illegal and unusual acts of the current Prime Minister, Janez Janša and his team, to now investigate only themselves or to appoint a president from coalition parties. I think that's insane and impossible. You have taken, as it is said, another step towards the establishment of the total authority of Janez Janša, and as such the commission will no longer be functional and will not work because they will certainly not investigate themselves. But I'm sure we'll still get to the bottom of the truth, even though you're trying to get it under the rug. We will, of course, vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-27-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u260	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we stick to the agenda, this is an explanation for the vote, and that we do not make any excuses to cut them out and put them on social networks in three minutes. In short, let us act as this congregation does. Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 30. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 30.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the proposal for a decision on the termination of the post of Vice-Presidents and on the appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government and Vice-Presidents of the Defence Committee. The draft decision was tabled by the SMC Group of Members for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that ends the function of Vice-President Jani Möderndorfer in the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government and calls him Mag. Dušan Verbich. However, in the Committee on Defence, Vice-President Gregor Židan has ceased to serve as Vice-President and is appointed as Vice-President, Matey Udovč. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 9. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. That concludes this point. We continue with the adjourned first item on the agenda, this is the question of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 26 May 2020, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Prime Minister Janez (Ivan) Janša to the question by Mr Janji Möderndorfer on the impact of public financial indicators on the future. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Prime Minister Janez (Ivan) Janša to the question by Janji Prednik on the government's response to the hardships of people due to the covida-19 pandemic. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez (Ivan) Janša to Violet Tomić's question on protests against government policies and government action. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunity of Janez Cigler King to the question of the question by Jerce Korča on measures in the homes for older citizens in the event of a possible second wave of the covida-19 epidemic. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler King to the question of the post-mail question of Primož Siter concerning the restriction of the spread of covido-19 infections in homes for older citizens. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to Dusan Šiška's question on landfilling of low- and medium-radioactive waste (NSRAO). We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunity of Janez Cieglar King to the question of Mr Branet Golubović on the implementation of the second chapter of the Coalition Treaty on Cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia 2020-2022. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of mag. Meire Hot in connection with the H6 coastal fast road. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 45. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Anjet Logar, to the question of Mr Nataša Sukič, on the failure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to republish the map of the Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar to the question by Robert Pavšić on the number of fans at the University Clinical Centres Ljubljana and Maribor, 10 general hospitals and Golnik Clinic on 13 March 2020. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja asked Luke Mesca about the inefficiencies of previous measures to help the economy and citizens. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boštjan Koritnik and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler Kralje to the question of Mr Prebel concerning (no)payment of the allowance for work in a risky situation, as well as a supplement for danger and special burdens during the epidemic. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec Lipicer, to the question of Ms Kociper, on the measures taken to bring the work of children back to school and kindergarten. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja's question on Igor Pecko's question on revenue for the budget in March and April 2020. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar to the question of mags. Bojane Muršič regarding the public health system. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandre Pivec, to the question of Bosniak Koražija on the provision of food self-sustainment, the increase in processing surfaces and the prices of food products. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja to Mark Bandell's question on public debt and deficit. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boštjan Koritnik, to the question of Rudi Medved, on the reform of the wage system in the public sector. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec Lipicer, to the question of the post-mail question of Aljaž Kovacič regarding the re-opening of schools and kindergartens and the course of the school year from September 2020 onwards. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar to the question of Mr Željk Cigler's question on health insurance contributions. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja's question on the question of the sale and purchase of claims by SID banka, d.d. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar to the question of the post of Mr Vojk Starović regarding the care of the elderly during the covid-19 epidemic. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, to the question of media-related legislation by Lidija Dijak Mirnik. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Visiak, on the question of Miha Kordiša regarding the environmental agreement for the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of Mr Edvard Paulic, on the continuation of the construction of the 3rd development axis. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 46. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandre Pivec, to the question of mag. Andrea Reich related to the assessment of the measures taken during the covid-19 epidemic. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar to Robert Pavšić's question on compulsory health insurance rights. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Visiak asked Željko Cigler about the use permit for the HE Brežice Accumulation Pool. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of mag. Andrea Reich related to current projects in Maribor. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 46. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Anjet Logar, to the question of Mr Preil's question on Hungary's disputed conduct. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja's question on the question of the delegation of Andrei Zabret concerning the provision of additional liquidity to the economy to mitigate the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 47. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the Viatte Tomić question concerning the provision of the autonomy of the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. This concludes this point and the 17th session of the National Assembly.
