ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I proceed with the 53rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Franz Kramar, Yuri Lepi, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti and Branislav Rajić from 11 a.m. to 13 p.m. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the following Members and Members have today announced their participation in a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly using the remote meeting application: Mag. Carmen Furman, Eva Irgle, Anja Bah Žibert and Brana Golubović. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we go to the vote, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will carry out it in accordance with the following order: 5, 6, 4, 9, 11, 12, 8, 2, 3, 10, 14 and 1 item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda – thirdly, the proposal for a law on the treatment of children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems and disorders in education and education in the context of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Comrade Ciegler, explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u2	That's right. President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues in Levica will be absolutely supported by the proposal for a law. This is a law that deals with children, their rights, education and education, which the State of the Republic of Slovenia must ensure in accordance with Article 57 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Primary education is compulsory. This is provided by the State. And if we provide this to all 400 children and adolescents who are in educational homes, it is so bad that we do not provide this to 536 children who attend regular primary schools. There is an explicit violation of the rights of the social and legal state, children's rights. We have already warned this assembly several times, and I ask you Members and Members to ensure that decisions to direct children with special needs in primary school are implemented as soon as possible. Let's do this together. Let us stop violating the rights of children, families, schools, and teachers. In short, let us take care of our children and ensure what is theirs in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The Left will, of course, support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law implementing the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection legislation under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and no amendments to the final provision have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u4	Thank you. We will vote against this law. This law gives tax exemptions to a German shipowner or his companies in Slovenia, who have done the following. After selling Slovenian shipowners to this owner 10 years ago, he sold this fleet, except for one ship, transferred the company to the tax havens, both companies on the list of taxpayers and aggressively lobbying the third government, first Cerarjevo, then Sarčeva, now Janševa. If I recall the first time that this law was before Cerar's government, but then it fell at the end of the mandate, then an investigation was launched by Secretary Tiln Bozic, then secretary of the finance ministry, due to suspicions of corruption, to the suspicion that the shipowner had inadvertently lobbied at the Ministry in order to obtain these tax exemptions. At that time, both the SDS and the NSI voted against it. The marriage fell, as it fell into the second. And now we're in the third attempt, and these two parties are in power and they've reinvested it. I think that this is one beautiful example of systemic corruption in us, which shows how governments can change, but not interests. Of course, we will vote against it, but at the same time I predict that we will also make an effort this time to investigate how this law came through the Ministry of Finance in the third.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 21. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons under the Regular Procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the National Demographic Fund. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a national demographic fund law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 36. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance as its parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act is suitable for further consideration. Colleague Natasa Sukič, on behalf of the parliamentary group, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u6	Thank you very much, chairman. Respected and respected! Not the local population, not the municipal consciousness of Lendava, nor the State Council do not grant us concessions in order to continue to allow for the implementation of fracking in our country. And it is not true that it is only now with this present government that the party Levits came up with these novels of law just to dictate to this government what was heard. We worked on it all the time. Look at the history of my oral questions. And if Minister Leben hadn't gone in the right direction at that time, I'd have put this novel under Charche's government. And it is not true that in Petišovci it would not be a real cracking or a completely dangerous version of fracking. If that were true, then Ascent Resources would not be afraid of assessing the environmental impact and would not, after being placed before the fact that it must be obtained, threaten the Republic of Slovenia with a hearing, with a lawsuit before a foreign arbitrator. Nor is it true that this would prohibit drilling wells, which is absurd, as we have heard. We know very well that we are talking about the extraction of natural gas and oil through fracking in this law. That's why your arguments are empty, and they're not really there, and it's all about nudity. The experience of other countries shows that fracking is harmful both to human health and to environmental health, and the consequences of hydraulic crushing can be very severe. In fact, it pollutes groundwater, contaminates clean drinking water with toxic substances, degrades the environment, it is possible that the earthquake suns are at the time of the hydraulic crushing and so on, as in Groningen, the gas field of Groningen, where it is a comparable situation as in Petišovci, because it is the same composition of the soil. More and more European countries are rightly taking a full ban on fracking or at least replacing it. This is probably not the case, so I invite you, respectable and respected, to follow this example. Because you keep saying that you will systematically address this issue, but you haven't confirmed with any answer that you will address the issue of the prohibition of fracking in the system law. Once again, please, let's listen to the call from Prekmur, let's listen to the people who live there. They are threatened, their health is threatened, their property is threatened if earthquakes occur, the Mura biosphere area is threatened. This habitat, which is unique on a global scale and has also been recognized as such by Unesco. Please, at least hold on if you can't support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, for 41, for 41. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure in the framework of the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 15 December 2020, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica to Article 14. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members, 39 to 41. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation to the vote, colleague Masha Kociper on behalf of the SAB Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President. I, on behalf of the SAB Group, predict that we will vote against this law, which is a great harm. The law brings important and important alignment with the directives and regulations of the European Union, but in the previous vote, you have decided not to betray, if I say so, a harmful article which has been adopted on the Committee. In the last minute, the amendment of the coalition's parties to this system law came to the Committee, by which the parties to the coalition overcame the long-standing and existing provision in the CAP, which provides that during the proceedings, when the proceedings are not yet legally binding, when the presumption of innocence and everything else in force is still in force, a judge shall decide who can look into the criminal file, not into the judgment. You have now written in this law that regardless of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, the Public Information Access Act applies. According to local terms, the public, the media and third parties will be able to look at the criminal record during the proceedings, at what evidence is inside, at which evidence were accepted, at what witnesses said, at what they did not say, and so on. Rather than allowing this view, as always decided by the judge and after the conclusion of the proceedings by the President of the Court or by another authorised person, the Information Officer will now decide on what can and will not be examined from the criminal record. The same, which looks at how we voted in a secret ballot, as defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as a secret ballot. That's what we've just accepted. The fact that one system law, which is thus written in the middle of a system law, regardless of what it says here, applies to the examination of the criminal record of another law, is exactly what law cannot do with it. Unim, some fencing, some harmful fluttering. And why is that? Because there is some judgment of the Supreme Court that you misinterpreted. This Supreme Court judgment does not speak of an insight into legal judgments. Of course, the legal judgments are public, talking about the application of procedural provisions, provisions of the CAP, for access to criminal records. You've accepted this, and I think you know how harmful this is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I'm Tina Hefferle's colleague on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Even in the LMŠ, we cannot support this amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. In fact, the coalition has once again skillfully instigated in the paper an article, a so-called arsonist, who rejects or excludes the Criminal Procedure Act when it will be decided by someone, when and what he will be able to look into the criminal record, which, in our view, is extremely harmful for the criminal procedure itself, as well as for suspects in criminal proceedings, and not least for victims of crimes, because in this way it will be possible to discredit someone in the process itself, i.e. before a legal conviction. That seems unacceptable to us. At the same time, it is incomprehensible for us to place a judge who is an alpha and an omega court, an information officer who is an administrative authority, who has no knowledge of criminal law, who has no knowledge of criminal law, and who will be able to decide, under your law, who and how to look into the files under your article. Not only are we opposed to such a provision by the Supreme Court, they are opposed by the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, it is opposed by the Bar Association and, last but not least, a very harsh record against this provision has been written by our Legal and Legal Service. It grieves us that in such a way the procedure, which is very sensitive and very important, is said to be a criminal procedure to make it in such a way less valuable or less transparent. We're not going to support this novel in LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u11	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 43 votes against 36. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Tax Law on Motor Vehicles in the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 16. 12. 2020, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 17(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. An explanation of the voice? My colleague, Andre Zabret, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. On the proposal of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, which is before us today, the LMŠ Group seriously wonders what the government has been doing in this area from March to December. As early as May, we asked Minister Shirtzle an oral question when the Ministry would put a proposal for that law into a procedure which must, by the way, be adopted by the end of the year. The Minister then replied that they would first analyse the entire tax system and draw up a solution based on this analysis. Seven months later and after some of the non-existent analyses, we are now enacting the law by emergency procedure. And in view of the extensive and substantive comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, we fear that the law will in practice be difficult to implement. In fact, you didn't take any of their comments into account. There have been some improvements to the law on the Finance Committee. In the List of Marjan Šarc, as well as the coalition, we have tabled an amendment to prevent Slovenia from becoming a landfill of environmentally disputed vehicles from other countries. Our amendment to Article 16 changes the amount of the tax on motor vehicles over 10 years of age. However, since the government has completely forgotten specific groups, such as firefighters, we have also tabled an amendment whereby fire vehicles are also included among motor vehicles exempt from taxes. The coalition has unselfishly supported it, and we have tried to improve the article with the new amendment, and we have extended the list of tax exemptions to the vehicles used to carry out the mountain, cave and underwater rescue service, because it is the same principle of operation as firefighters, so they are in the public interest. But the coalition just can't get out of its skin and just can't admit that we've done something good. Instead, he takes advantage of every opportunity to credit himself. Therefore, a very similar amendment with some extensions has also been tabled by the coalition. However, in LMŠ we are pleased that at least this time you have heard our initiative to include in the law other vehicles which are in accordance with the law governing the protection against natural and other disasters used to carry out public protection, rescue and assistance services. If the initiative is implemented, our objective is achieved. When we adopt a new so-called environmentally friendly tax, we are surprised by the news that the incentives for electric vehicles through the Eco Fund are being reduced, which is not a good traveller. We will abstain from voting on the law in the List of Marjan Šarc. We are aware that the law must be adopted by the new year, but justified criticism goes to the finance ministry, which has delayed its preparation to the last, so today we have before us [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 81 Members present for 69, against no one. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 17 to Article 1 was adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this Article became irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing Group to Article 40. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 17 of the Act's amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that due to amendments adopted in other proceedings, the bill would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade Kordish, explanation of vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u14	41,000 euros in tax leave for a rich person who buys a car for 150 000 euros, 5,000 600 euros in tax leave for a rich person who can afford a car for 70 000 euros, 30 million out of the budget for all others who need it, we need it because they finance health care and finance education, including basic infrastructure. The Motor Vehicle Tax Act makes it very clear where the priorities of the government of Janez Janša lie at the height of the epidemic. Two points are drawn more and more frequently. The first is that he can take himself into power, regardless of the victims, even the mortal ones. And the second is that it destroys the state budget and all that is public good in this country, and the creation of wealth, it converts to its friends the rich and to capital. The tax on motor vehicles and this tax burden on rich people is an example of this latter. According to the argument for this tax, why is it necessary to relieve the need for rich people who hide taxes or avoid paying in the purchase of their luxury cars, we have been able to find two fundamental arguments in the debate. Firstly, this is supposed to be some kind of mini-green tax reform. This is not true because, already after the existing regulation, a criterion is included in the law, how much a particular vehicle pollutes the environment and how much it does not. There is absolutely no green argument for rich people who avoid paying taxes to look through their fingers and to avoid paying taxes on their own luxury to be legalised. Those who really think green in transport will invest in buses and railways, in quality public passenger transport that serves everyone. This is the only solution for green transport policies that contributes to a very large share of global emissions as well as to us. The second argument we have heard is that already, the budget will indeed lose 30 million euros, but that 30 million euros will be poured into the family budget, if households will be able to have 30 million euros more. What the proponents have forgotten in this argument is that, indeed, 30 million euros will flow into family budgets, but only 1% of the richest.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u15	Thank you very much. My friend, Ducky. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] in his own name. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? I'm a colleague of Matthew the Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. The proposal for the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, which we have today in the vote, will be unanimously supported by the Modern Centre Party Group. Today is a time when politics must see that the economy remains not only today but also tomorrow. And policies to raise taxes certainly do not work in times of economic crisis, but in times of crisis, taxes are reduced to enable the economy to start up. In preparing, considering and adopting legislation at this time, our main objective today should be to help the economy. If we do not help the economy today, our citizens and citizens will not have jobs tomorrow. And if they don't realize it in Levica today, they don't realize it today, it makes me very sad. We need to take decisions that will restart the wheel of the economy and bring us closer to the situation before the pandemic. And when we're in that state, then we can talk about different tax policies. Here you can see the decline in sales of new cars. Also over 42% of turnover. Are you aware that today in German cars, in every German car, there is almost one component from Slovenia in almost every car? And if the sale of new cars falls, that means the decline of our economy, our workers. And as we have heard, 10,000 jobs are at risk, Slovenian jobs are at risk if we do not help the automotive industry. For two years at the Modern Center Party, we worked hard to get this marriage to the table today. The law is good, so we will also unanimously support it in the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Dr. Franz Duck in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Opinion is not a natural state. First of all, this law is naive. If someone expects certain people from Slovenia who do not want to pay taxes in Slovenia, which is now suddenly due to this law, they will be paid to wake up. Secondly, the law is based on wrong assumptions, it is based on pre-crisis assumptions. You know, one of the best institutes in the world for development, likes South Korea, doesn't know how it's going to be in the fall of 2021. And any smart entrepreneur is probably not going to go now 100 grand or 150 grand for a new car. Thirdly, the law is also against what all governments, including this one, write: green Slovenia, five-star up and down. Nearly two thirds of air pollution is passenger car traffic. You accept this while reducing subsidies for electric vehicles. All in all, I'm glad to see today in Ivančna Gorica that a new train passed that they're testing. You forget, however, that four-fifths of pensioners and pensioners are necessarily too expensive. That more than half the employees buy a car is necessary, but too expensive a cost. And that's what we should be dealing with. It's not like some joze over there is criticizing me for being rude. You know, it's not the mission of Members and Members of the 21st century to think at the end of 2020 how I'm going to buy a better car than my neighbor. We need to demobilize. Our car cluster with the knowledge it has, but we need to move into different means of transport and, say, into gerontotechnologies and other products and zero knowledge that we will all live better, that our grandchildren will not die when they have to pay for all that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u20	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'll vote against it myself. Firstly, look also at the Slovenian government, and this National Assembly is likely all of us supported the reduction of harmful gas emissions by 55% by 2030. This measure is exactly the opposite. Together, we supported becoming a carbon-free society by 2050. This measure is totally against. An important part of Slovenk and the Slovenes, we have a car because we appreciate it, it feels like it's going to get to a cheaper car because of this marriage. She's not coming. She's not coming. She's not coming. You only allowed a cheaper car for the rich. Those who pay the car for 100,000 euros will be saved for one car, as the average Slovenian family drives. You gave it to them. But those who drive regular cars will have nothing to do with it. And then listen, our main mission is to change the transport. The main reference is, go to electric and hybrid, which, with this financial operation you're doing, you're going to get a kick out of it. So that what is actually in line with what we have made as a commitment to the European Union and to the world, at the end of this stage, we have also signed the Paris Climate Agreement five years ago, we have signed, but we are doing something else, no, you are doing something else. I know it's necessary to do something different. And I'm really worried. I am concerned that at the declaration level we are still doing what we like to do, yes, we will do something useful when we get to the operational level and in a completely different direction. And finally, with respect and respect, why should I vote against it? In October, we received two of your laws, your coalition, a reminder from the European Commission, which warned us that it would be possible to sue us because we do not know how to protect the environment. Today, I am also giving this as a question in writing, as well as an initiative to the competent minister. We're going the wrong way because of you. And not doing it to end up being ashamed of us as citizens and citizens. Thank you. I'll go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukič in her own, I apologize, Luka Moon first, and then Natasha Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Now, first of all, this law is written explicitly only for the rich, for people who can afford a car for 100,000 euros or more. If you buy a car for 150,000 euros, you'll be crumbling 41 grand under this law if you buy a dime for 10,000, and you'll be 10 euros for the worse. That's the content of this law. Then this marriage is naive. Naive is the first time from an economic point of view. In fact, we hear some argument, if you do, this will get rid of the Slovenian car cluster. Please. Well, what's the final price of a car for 100,000 euros in Slovenian? I don't know, maybe a 500-euro piece. Do you think that Slovenian car consumption for 100,000 euros in global format will know what will result in the creation of a job in Slovenia? On the contrary, we will lose 30 million euros in the budget. And in that sense, the law is naive. In fact, this is a school case of the so-called tickle-down effect, it is hoped that when taxes are reduced for the rich something will come down after the social pyramid. Let's look at the countries where they did it the most, the most clear case possible or known in the world is the United States of America. There they have been raised or a class of billionaires who are now literally dangerous to that society, but on the other hand you have more than 50 million people without basic health insurance. They're taking such policies there and I don't know why we have to take this lesson again in 2020 when the whole world knows it's bullshit. And lastly, this law is dangerous to society because it encourages, directly encourages the purchase of cars with five-litre engines and so on, which burns what I know, by 15, 20 liters per 100 kilometers, and we do it at a time when the whole world tells us that we have to reduce our carbon emissions. That we don't even talk about how much of such a car production is environmentally burdensome. And after the anchor of the crisis comes the climate crisis, which will be solved even harder than these, and you are doing all the opposite. Of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, nothing, the lesson of this story, as far as I hear it today, is, let's buy rollerblades, buy Ferraris to save our economy, not buy clichés that work with us, because it's not worth buying, because you're going to pay 10 more or almost or at least less, depending on the model you're going to afford. No, no, no. Let's buy rollers, Mercedes, Ferraris, and that's it. I'd rather not lose my words about the concepts, your views on the approaching climate change, but about the environmental crisis. Your mouth is full of beauty when we get to the specifics, total failure. You have not even supported the ban on fracking, now you are promoting the purchase of cars that are even more polluters and so on, which contribute significantly to the release into the atmosphere. So again, thank you for your advice. Citizens and citizens, despite the fact that the crisis is desperate, that we are in the midst of a desperate health crisis, that we are in the midst of an economic crisis and even worse, buy rollers and Ferraris, it is worth it. Of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote absolutely against it. In fact, yesterday, the secretary of state herself said that someone, a rich man who bought a luxury-class car worth more than 200,000 euros and more, would use this new law to pump up almost 70,000 euros. Is this acceptable in the most difficult times in the history of Slovenia? In short, it is clear what the priorities of this government are. Seizures, altering the fundamental democratic demands of this society and rewarding the rich, those poor, who give 200 or more euros to buy a car, so that they can now put together 70 000 euros, the poor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u27	Franz Breznik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u28	Okay, now we're back to reality. Now you've heard the demagogies of left-wing men, here it is, and now reality again. So, first thing. We're shutting down or we're reducing the DMV. Take, for example, the Porsche 911 turbo, the purchase price of 220 thousand euros. Yes, indeed, the DMV is shrinking, and then VAT comes, and 22% of the country will receive the toll. Do you know how much car toll there are over 4,000 cubic centimeters? 560 euros, the country will win again. It will not get Bratislava and not Budapest, but Germany, but it will get the state of the Republic of Slovenia. You will also get a salary from this luxury car. But now against the party, respected, once again the reality that participated in the mass, the years and years of Talum Kidrič's greatest polluter. Red mud, if you remember? TES1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, the largest contaminant of one entire valley. Continuation, Salonite Anhovo, asbestos. Have you heard of this disease? That's the leftist demagogy. These cars are already driving around Slovenia and they are polluting this environment, respected colleagues. They're already driving with 4,000 cubic centimeters. The problem is that VAT was paid in another country, that tolls were paid in another country, that insurance helmets and basic insurance were paid in another country. This is this demagogy and this is this Slovenian obscenity, which comes from the wine-predation mentality of the people. In Slovenia, good cars and entrepreneurs who have succeeded will be upgraded. Those who have actually succeeded, not those who have stolen state property from SD clients, are driven by luxury cars. That's the difference. And one more thing, Lukac and his shorthand, 10, 20 or 40 Slovenian parts are installed in Slovenian luxury cars. 40 Slovenian parts are installed more in luxury cars than in one Renault cliche. Just so you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u29	Comrade Breznik, please do not offend fellow Members and Members. He's a procedural colleague of Luke the Moon. A little silence, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u30	Mr Breznik and I have not been in the past together, and there is no right to talk to anyone not only in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u31	Quiet!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u32	Mr Beznik, you have no right to talk to anyone not only in Parliament. Please, Mr Zorčič, ask for the utmost respect for the fellow Members and to give him a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u33	My friend Luke Moon, you're right. I've alerted my colleague, Franz Breznik, and I suggest we move on. Comrade Kordish, if you repeat the same procedural proposal, I will give you a warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u34	Of course, you're going to give me a reminder, and there you are, to Franz Breznik, who is grieving with bows and scissors, and you're not going to do that. How very double-minded are you presidents?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u35	No, I'm not double-faced. We will not replicate the procedural proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u36	I am making a procedural proposal to remind Franz Breznik of the SDS for the undignified addressing of all others debated in this Chamber, in such a very humiliating way.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u37	We can move on. An explanation of the voice? No, no, no. Procedural proposal by colleague Natasa Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u38	Dear President, a warning is not enough. Please give a reminder to Franz Beznik, for the man was extremely insulting especially to Luke Mesca and others. What he's allowed is a precedent. I will not state the quality of this Member, who, in fact, after what he has done, should no longer be a Member, but now dare to insult the other Members. Please give a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u39	Colleagues, no, I'm not giving you a reminder. I warned my colleague Franz Breznik that his words were inappropriate, I think that's enough. Now I suggest we move on. A voice explanation, Comrade Kordish, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u40	In the very law of the tax cut on the luxury of cars, it says what is the fundamental reason for the government to accept it. Basically, rich people avoid paying taxes and cars prefer to register abroad, say in Slovakia. And the secretary presented the case in the debate. Someone who buys Porsches for 190,000 euros will pay 9,000 euros in new taxes, and as in existing legislation, they should pay 77,000. Seventy-seven thousand. And instead of the government dealing with the prosecution of tax evasion and fair taxation to contribute to our common well-being, especially in times of crisis, what does it do? To the rich, tax avoidance and tax evasion is legalised in a way that further cuts the tax on luxury vehicles. During the discussion, I said that, given how Janez Janša's government is turning, one of the reasons for this law is that one of the government's friends wants to buy a luxury car for 150 or 200 thousand euros, but would not pay the appropriate amount of tax. And, of course, Janez Janša jumped, no problem, friend, comrade, we will make you a special law that will burden you. And since Franz Breznik spoke in defense of this law, the former secretary who met with suspected drug traffickers [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u41	My friend Kordish [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u42	We can see that those words were not just twisted out of the vine. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u43	Please don't rain fire unless I interrupt the session and we'll take a little break. [[…]] My friend Siter has the floor, and then my colleague Violet Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u44	Yes, thank you very much for your word. If the Member, on the other hand, has called on the National Assembly to come to reality, I also invite him to the reality of all others, except that tribunal on the other hand, which cannot afford cars for 150 or 190 thousand euros. The reality of all the people who you are, hand to heart, may not be able to afford that for 10,000. These are huge in Slovenia. 200 and a few thousand people live below the poverty line, 40,000 of them are children. Today, however, we have a second attempt, a second legal attempt at tax exemptions for capital and the most powerful. Are we even aware of what a person must have under his thumb, and how did he come to this if he can only throw 190,000 euros for a means of transport, as one example was given by the Secretary of State the last time? And what does this mean for the state budget? We did a little math in the debate. Let us ask ourselves how many firehouses in Postojna can be summed up from the state budget if we justly tax everyone who walks on luxury, as it is affectionately called. How many jobs in nursing homes can we afford, how many jobs, too much work in health institutions and so on and so forth. This is the reality, honourable Members and Members, and the scope of this law and the whole climate of giving and giving and giving new and new tax exemptions to capital and the most powerful. This marriage is above all rude, so I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u46	Thank you, President. I will try to choose words because I see the representatives of this coalition jump out loud when they hear the truth. I'll try to touch reality. Who do we work for or work for? How many in Slovenia are these people who can buy Porsches for €220,000? Can you count them on the fingers of one hand? How many are there? Mr. Breznik, you probably know them, you like to drive fast, and you don't care about alcohol when you get in a car. We don't even have roads that are suitable for divorcing like those of your evil Porsches if we stick to the rules. [[…]] I think that is why Parliament is here, that we are the first to follow the example of how to behave about driving, respecting the limits, regarding non-alcoholic driving and so on. I would like to remind you of Mary Antoinette, when the nation was hungry, she said to them: “If they do not eat bread, they should eat.” Yeah, look, and how she ended up. I'll remind you that yesterday we were able to watch the reports of America, which you so want to get close to, that millions are hungry. And after this epidemic, we actually have not only an ecological disaster, but also a food disaster. People can't get enough money for bread, let alone get to the chicken, not to talk about an apartment that's for $220,000, as one colleague says, how wonderful and how many houses you can buy for it. I do not understand you that the laws are written for the elite when it is necessary to take care of citizens and citizens who face difficult problems, not to mention that we have signed the Paris Agreement. The government's advisor is a great tax collector, a king among them, and that's the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrian."
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! I will vote in favour of the above-mentioned law. But I'll give you two points. Luxury cars are already driving through Slovenia. And the one who earned the money honestly and decided to buy a luxury car to buy it, but should buy it in Slovenia and pay the tax in Slovenia. Calculate the amount of tax per 100,000 euros, the amount of tax per 200,000 euros. That's one thing. The other thing is, you're saying they're either going to save money or they're only going to pay for rich people. That's not true. See, according to the current law, the tax is EUR 249, according to the new law that we are now adopting EUR 66, the golf course under the old 650, the new 82, the Panda 466 under the old law, the 144 under the new law and the dacia daster 395 under the old law and the 118 under the new law. I drive a dacia daster, and I don't think it's a luxury car, but I'm happy with it. But it's safe, and it's crucial to me as a father with a small child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Matthew the Widow in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I will be happy to support today's bill. As I have already mentioned, for two years I have advocated the amendment of this law. What do I stand for? We're talking today about money that we don't actually have, that hasn't been paid by citizens and citizens yet, and we'd pay for it. 1. 2021, if the law doesn't change today. That's the difference. You're talking about a 77,000 tax on a luxury car that's not there today, which would only be if it were. And the same law was also proposed by the previous government. Dr Bertonzel has also proposed an identical law, so today I cannot understand Members who oppose such a law. The law is good. And it's good for people. Those who buy low-priced vehicles will also pay less tax. But that doesn't mean less tax than they're paying today, because other scales are being treated today. A renewed law is needed only because the transitional period ends. The transitional period was blocked by the famous Dieselgate affair. All known affairs. That's why it's urgent. Citizens and citizens do not even know how much they would pay because we are looking ahead because politics is good, it is looking forward and it will burden them with this work so that they will not have to pay when buying one golf car 650 thousand taxes on motor vehicles. As already mentioned, luxury vehicles will no longer be registered in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, but we expect them to register in Slovenia. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, how much more interest is there? I see there's more. I'll start the list. Two, three. Yeah, just two later. First my colleague Koraži, then Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u52	[[There's a riot in the hall.]] Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u53	I can do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u54	I mean, thank you. What if you calm down a little group next door over there? Look, this law is basically just a reflection of the spirit of this government. In fact, it is constantly working on being taken by the poor and given to the rich. This is actually the demagogy that this right-wing government is carrying out. Of course, I will vote against this law because it is time for this national assembly to start working for people and not against people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u56	Yes, there was a great deal of definition of how we will vote and what will be accepted or confirmed. The fact is that the law will be adopted today. Of course, it is a very important question that will happen under this law. This is, above all, interesting to see who will buy what cars, especially those that have earned the most from masks and fans, and some other thing that will show up. And it would be nice if you were to adopt this law so that, of course, you would be within the bodies to which you are superior and also give them political guidance, what they have to do to keep up with these people, what they will do and how they will do. Of course, it is now possible to see who is driving the most powerful cars. I am sad, in fact, only because this government does not have some serious imagination or serious idea of what to do, in fact, with vehicles that would be alternative vehicles and, of course, significantly more useful to the whole of society, not to mention the benefits of buying a car or something like that. These people will also raise 100 or 400 euros because they need this car. But the problem is that there are still church dignitaries driving the most expensive cars in our country, and that worries me more about where their money comes from, and we're giving them relief. Otherwise, PKP7 is already coming with new facilities to buy good cars.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u58	Yes, thank you. I will support this law because it follows the paradigm of this government – lower taxes, less red tape and adoption of environmentally acceptable projects. It is useful for taxpayers, it is useful for consumption and for the economic sector, which is quite important in Slovenia. But the fact is, you obviously don't know all those who haven't read the law. We are preventing something that would happen because the transitional period would end with 1. 1. 2021 and would have a lot of trouble buying all the new consumers who want to get to their car or their car. The other important component is exemption from the tax on motor vehicles for individual segments, fire-fighting vehicles, rescue vehicles, veterinary vehicles, civil protection vehicles and so on. These are the segments of society you forget about all those who talk about Porsches and you are worried about, because so far we have not received anything from these Porsches in Slovenia because DMV and VAT were paid in Slovakia. And whatever we're going to get from these people who are now buying and registering and paying taxes to a foreign country in Slovenia, it's going to be exactly what you're opposed to – for new firehouses, for new schools and so on, to follow your populism. In short, you're a fan because we didn't get anything. We are for this country to get from those who can afford and can earn either clia or naked or eventually stronger vehicles. And these stronger vehicles will not be as active as they are now, depending on the power, but on the degree of environmental pollution. And here is the main move of this law and why I will personally support this law. Lower taxes, more for people, less red tape and better environmental acceptability of cars. I don't know what else I'd rather do.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! If we didn't know our dear colleagues on the left, someone would probably tear over this social sensitivity that was presented here today. But you've also been loading up where you can see that it's supposed to be a good driving park. But, colleagues and colleagues, where in recent years was the largest meeting of luxury and most expensive, absolutely prestigious cars in Slovenia? In Dražgoša, colleagues and colleagues. [[...a laugh in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u61	[[Sound warning for peace in the hall]] Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u62	As von Hajek said, if leftists had any idea about anything, and especially about the economy, they would never be left-handed. And the Slovenian problem is that leftists in Slovenia are by name, but in fact they only have a green interest, which of course Green is the color of money, which is the green color of money. So much about Slovenian leftistry, best mentioned by the one who said it was a business decision in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u63	Comrade Grimes, the motor vehicle tax is a topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u64	Yeah, that's what we're talking about. Then who has them, and who pays taxes to other countries? And now that one solution is being sought to shift at least one part of these taxes to Slovenia, to have Slovenian taxpayers, Slovenian education, Slovenian health care, this is a problem. And those at that regular annual meeting in Dražgoša in the first place cry out that this is not good, that this is not right. That's a real problem. And there's nothing stupid about not commenting on what the world's most polluted car traffic is. Yes, of course, let's take a little interest and start talking about the profession, and I'll see you then. We will, of course, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u65	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, for 43, for 17. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on emergency measures due to African swine fever in feral pigs under the emergency procedure. Since the amendments to the amended proposal were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Explanation. Colleague Violeta Tomić, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. A little silence. [[Sound warning for peace in the hall]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u66	I'm sorry if you can't listen, but I have the right to explain my vote under the Rules of Procedure. We will vote against this law in Levica because we understand that African swine fever must be restricted, but we must be aware that we do not have a single case of this disease in Slovenia or near our borders. However, the law allows slaughtering wild pigs, but we know that the disease is not tolerated to other animals, it is not transmitted to humans, and it is our excuse, and it is special and we cannot support it. We would understand that, according to the more vulnerable regions, this animal collection, as you say, is being carried out, but subsidised, we know that those who carry out these killings will receive 15 euros per hour and more, that the state will acquire all the weapons with silencers and so on, that as many wild pigs as possible will be killed, but that the wild pigs will still be kept in slaughter will not be protected by domestic pigs. We know that every farmer must protect his property and that there is no contact of a wild pig with a grown pig unless a man commits a crime. And this law protects the interest of pigs once again, but we forget the interest of wild animals that no one protects. The law is special and we can't really support it in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u67	We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 8. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for an amendment to the Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway on the procedure for the transfer between the Member States of the European Union and Iceland and Norway. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to a judicial function at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Dr. Primož Gorkič as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which Dr. Primož Gorkič is elected as Judge of the Supreme Court of Slovenia. Explanation of voice. Comrade Daniel the Crimson in the name of the messenger.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u68	I have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u69	Procedural proposal? Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u70	Dear President of the National Assembly, this day, according to information, Primož Gorkic, a special professor will emerge. This means that he no longer meets the conditions for an extraordinary professor, which is also a condition for a judge or an election. The information we have received from all in the National Assembly, all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, is information that this condition no longer meets today. He did not publish the required articles and other criteria cited by NAKVIS. That's why the university couldn't extend his name to an extraordinary professor. This comes from the available data that we all have at our disposal. Under the second paragraph of Article 12 of the Judicial Service Act, only a law teacher may be elected to the Supreme Judge if he is elected at least as an extraordinary professor who fulfils this requirement. These conditions are now no longer met with this Mr Primož Gorkič. Obviously, it was in some calculation that we would do this vote before today. Now I'm wondering what we're gonna do in this case. I think it would be necessary to clear this up before we go to the vote. It is necessary to know that we have already rejected this Mr Primož Gorkič in the National Assembly, and now we are once again facing a dilemma as to whether the condition that we can vote on him is formally met. In my view, this should be checked at the very least, so that I propose that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also define this. If the conditions are not met, we also do not have formal conditions for voting on someone because we are risking that someone will continue to complain about this choice. And I don't think we can afford that kind of stuff. My procedural proposal is that this vote should not be carried out and that the conditions of compliance that it has with the relevant vote be verified.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u71	Procedural colleague Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u72	Mr President, I am making a counter-procedural proposal. I propose that the vote be carried out. The proposal is submitted to the National Assembly in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure. It's already been decided by the committee. And if we look at the article referred to by Comrade Krivec, the law only stipulates that a candidate wishing to be a supreme judge must be elected to the title of a special professor, named a special professor, and that was a colleague. That was it. Nowhere does the law stipulate that at the time of appointment this condition must still be fulfilled. The key to marriage is that it has had such experience that it can come to this title. I see this procedural proposal as a desperate attempt by the SDS party not to be elected by a respected colleague, a highly esteemed expert, all the profession respects it. However, why they do not want to be elected is because, at some point in time, he was very truthful and very professionally based on one matter, and he did not make much political determination at that time, not even a little, just with professional arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-17-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u73	Thank you very much. My respected colleagues and colleagues have provided me with two documents. One is a decision on election to the title from which it follows that the extraordinary prof. Dr. Primož Gorkič is a university graduate lawyer, born on 7 December 1978 in Ljubljana, elected as a special professor in the field of criminal law. This document is dated to 19. 11. 2020. Furthermore, it follows from the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission that Primož Gorkič has not yet been elected as a judge, that, pursuant to Article 19 of the Law on the Judicial Service of that candidate, the Council re-elected the Supreme Court of Justice in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, 27. 11. He also forwarded a decision of the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana on his re-election as a special professor in the field of criminal law. In view of these documents, I have no doubt that today we can decide what is on the agenda and I propose that we move to a vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 34. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 34.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals for election to the judicial function of the District Court in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted proposals to the National Assembly for the election of the Magi. Jerneje Pečnik Zadel and Mojce Vrh in judicial function in the court seat of district judges at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. First of all, we decide on a proposal for a decision to elect mag as a judge of the District Court in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. -Jerney's oven, Zadel. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We also decide on a proposal for a decision to elect Mojca Vrh as a judge of the District Court in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the application for election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour Court in Maribor. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of the Magi. Sabine Goričan Podbrežnik in judicial function at the court seat of the District Court at the Labour Court in Maribor. The proposal as a parent labour body was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision, by which mag is elected to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour Court in Maribor. Sabina Goričan Podbežnik. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision establishing the termination of the term of office of a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to establish that Igor Prodnik has made a withdrawal statement from the seat of the member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council and therefore ends his term as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council appointed on the basis of the sixth indent of paragraph 6 of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the consideration of the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the provision of protective equipment and measures by institutions and institutions and bodies of public functions to combat the spread of covid-19 disease from 1. 2. 2020 until the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry in question. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 15 December 2020, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of sending Jani Prednik on social dialogue and coordination in the preparation of measures to combat the epidemic. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of Luke Mesca on the inability to deal with the health, social and economic crisis. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of the Cociper Maša on the functioning and development of independent public media. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 43. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of Mr Aljaž Kovacič on the temporary closure of institutions for the education and education of children and adolescents with special needs. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 41. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Anjet Logar, to the question of mags. Andrei Reich with regard to the implementation of the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia in neighbouring countries. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Lilliana Kozlovich asked Tina Heferle's question about the changes to the Penal Code in her work, when, as a separate crime, she would be persecuted for the act of promoting, citing, objecting or otherwise spreading Nazi, fascist and other extreme ideas that affect the field of fundamental freedoms and human rights. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler King to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš in connection with the freezing of the minimum wage. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunity of Janez Cigler King to the question by Jerce Korča on respect for the principle of equality and protection against discrimination. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti and Minister of Justice of Mag. Lilliana Kozlovic to the parliamentary question of Nataša Sulič regarding the racist record in the political week Democracy. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar to Robert Pavšić's question on the adoption of decisions on measures to combat the spread of coronary infections. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovec, to Violet Tomić's question on harmful business with Hungary in the second track project, which threatens the interests of Slovenia and Luke Koper. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar to Mark Bandelli's question on covid-19. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar to the question by Mr Edvard Paulič on vaccination against covid-19. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of the mission of Lidija Dijak Mirnik concerning the educational process during the epidemic. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar to the question of Mr Lenart's question on the overburden of health workers during the Coronavirus epidemic. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 44. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to the question of mission Primož Siter concerning the assistance of businesses and self-employed in the performance activities. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. The vote was 38 to 44. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovec, to the question of Bosniak Koražija on the placement of the Obradna on Ptuj. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. 37 votes to 43. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to the question of Mr Jožet Lenart concerning the economic priorities for the recovery of the covid-19 epidemic crisis. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the responses of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar and Infrastructure Minister Jernej Vrtovac to the question of mags. Bojane Muršič in connection with vaccination against covid-19 employees in energy. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the question of the question of correspondence, Primož Siter, concerning ensuring equal treatment of all religious communities after the abolition or transformation of the Office of Religious Communities. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of Ms Kociper's question on distance learning and the limitation of the possibility of developing talented children. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 44. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion of the responses of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of the post of Mr Boštjan Koražija regarding the non-participation of Slovenian representatives and representatives, students and students, at the IDPHO international competition. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja's question on the Government's tax policy is referred to by Miha Kordiš. We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present, with 37 to 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of mag. Andrea Reich related to the Second track project and Luka Koper. We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present, with 37 to 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja to Vojk Starović's question about the decline in economic growth and covid-19. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 35 to 42 votes in favour. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 53rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
