ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Eva Irgl, Gregor Židan, Franc Kramar, Carmen Furman, Mihael Prevc, Franc Rosec, Dušan Verbič, Susana Lepi Šimenko, Tadeja Šuštar, Alexander Reberšek until 13 p.m., Samo Bevk until 12 p.m., Igor Zorčič until 16 p.m. and Franc Jurša from 14 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on the financial burden of municipalities. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Boštjan Koritnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! Dear mayors, who are undoubtedly following today's session! The ZFRO proposal, namely the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities, which you now have on a regular table today, is the fruit of a monthly joint and in-depth part of the Government and representative associations of municipalities, all in order to reduce the costs of municipalities. Allow me to present briefly, in the introductions, the history of the creation of the proposal you will be considering today. The basis for the adoption by the State of a system law that will reduce the costs of municipalities was established at the time of the signing of an agreement on the average for 2019, which is November 2018, with representatives of representative associations of municipalities. This agreement provided for the establishment of a specific working body to examine possible legislative changes within six months in order to reduce the costs of municipalities resulting from their other statutory tasks. Representatives of the representative associations of municipalities and officials of the departments of the department participated in the group, and the work was coordinated by the Ministry of Public Administration. The starting point for concrete solutions was the proposals of representative associations of municipalities that proposed a review of 61 rules, of which 61 were in the narrower selection, so those agreed on by both parties remained 25. This led to the creation of a regulation that sought a solution that was systemic and sustainable in the long run. The goal was clear. The purpose of the regulation, which has been called the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities, i.e. by the CFRO, is to relieve the local community as much as possible not only in terms of costs but also in terms of administrative burdens. The long-standing process of drafting the text of a law involving several government departments has been demanding, and coordination and the search for solutions have also been difficult, since it is a law that interferes with nine other laws. I am therefore pleased today that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has placed on the agenda the consideration of the draft law, which I firmly believe is an important milestone in the relationship between the Government and the municipalities, as it fundamentally changes the philosophy of the preparation of regulations relating to jurisdiction and the financing of municipalities. Not just because of dialogue, it was present earlier, but because both sides were committed in advance to finding common solutions even when differences seemed insurmountable. By adopting this provision, the Slovenian municipalities will be burdened with a heavy burden, but it would not be entirely unrealistic if they also said an unfair financial burden. The proposed law therefore regulates the reduction of the costs of municipalities for the performance of certain tasks by law, the reduction of administrative procedures and the increase of certain revenue of municipalities. The principles of law are to harmonise tasks with the constitutional principle that the municipality is responsible for local matters which the municipality can therefore manage on its own and which concern only the population of the municipality and the principle of a more rational use of resources. While lowering costs to municipalities is a goal that the local government has been promising for a long time, especially at the expense of the average, which has not provided municipalities with sufficient development potential for many years – this is very important. However, at the appropriate height of the average, we do not help the congregations if, on the other hand, we lay down new tasks and responsibilities on the other hand. In this regard, the law that you will be considering today, which therefore interferes with nine sectoral laws, is an attempt to reverse the process — to deprive the municipalities of certain tasks that are not at all municipal by their very nature. As soon as we took over the Ministry, at my initiative, we formed a working group of Local Self-Government, in which I meet regularly with the mayors and mayors, representatives of representative associations of municipalities. Cooperation is extremely constructive and brings tangible results, including with the measures ahead of you, additional possible solutions that would bring additional savings to the municipalities. These solutions are: simplification of the procedure for the allocation of funds for co-financing investments from the State budget, reduction of the transitional period in determining the amount of the total eligible expenditure of municipalities for co-financing municipal investments, full amount of grants of 6 % of the eligible expenditure of the municipality would already be received in the following year, additional co-financing of municipalities with the Roma population, simplification of the short-term indebtedness of municipalities by inclusion in a single treasury account and the obligation to pay unsettled insurance, liability insurance and legal protection for fire services, which would be taken over by the State. Since I did not want to slow down the procedure for examining and adopting this law in the National Assembly, these solutions are not included in the basic text of the law before you. However, I believe that we will include them during the hearing, and we have previously coordinated them with our coalition colleagues. If the members and members of this esteemed assembly attach to the Government's efforts, the adoption of the GFRA will achieve an important phase goal: reducing the costs of municipalities to carry out certain tasks under the law, reducing administrative procedures and increasing certain revenue of municipalities. However, we also face important challenges in the future. Discussions are under way with the congregations, the journey is over, the road begins. Thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u4	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Local self-government is of particular importance in European regulation, and it is also right to give it the money that goes with it. Never in the history of independent Slovenia have the conditions for the functioning of municipalities been as favourable as those established by the current government. The average set for municipalities is raised to 628.20 euros, which means, at the annual level in the coming year, €83 million more for the functioning of the municipalities, as determined by the previous government of Sharčeva. In addition, the funds provided by the President of the Government through negotiations at European level and European investment funds, since these are net investment funds, are more than ever available. Significantly more. As it is said, together this means that the conditions for the functioning of the municipalities are better and more favourable under the present government than they have ever been in the history of independent Slovenia. In addition, an additional burden on the congregations is being prepared as a process initiated by the previous government and the response of which is the law that is before us. The law intervenes in several areas, on the one hand simplifying procedures and on the other hand additional revenue for municipalities from several titles, in particular simplifying certain procedures and thus making it easier and faster for municipalities to operate. The acquisition for the congregations will be so double. On the one hand, they already have more resources than ever before, including more investment funds, and on the other hand, it is now possible to have more money at their disposal and the costs of certain actions or activities that must be carried out by the municipalities are being transferred to where they actually belong because of state affairs. The effect will be that the local government will finally be able to breathe with full lungs and, of course, this law is worthy of support. Moreover, the law is an appropriate basis, which can be further upgraded by adopting certain amendments, as has been the case with the words of the Minister when he introduced this law. All of this makes it possible for the law to be further improved and thus to complete a process that lasted for a number of months, in which the partners, on the one hand the Government and on the other hand the relevant associations of the municipalities, have sought common solutions that allow, on the one hand, all activities to be carried out properly and, on the other hand, to allow municipalities better conditions for their operation than has been the case so far. What will be the financial impact of this law? Individuals range from €10 000 to €3 million, depending on the area, ranging from nine laws to administrative fees, adult education, health and social insurance, social protection, the enforcement of public funds rights, the enforcement of the labour market, the law on pension and disability insurance, notariat and, of course, the law on the financing of municipalities. We support all of this, as we say. We support that the congregations are successful, that the congregations are close to people who enable rapid development, and that is why we will support this law in the SDS Group of Members, and that we will continue to work towards further improvement in the text that is before us today with the corresponding amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u6	Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the Financial Dismantling of the Communities came from a nuisance, a real nuisance. For years and years, municipalities have been warning them that the State is imposing new and new financial and administrative obligations on them, which is not accompanied by adequate funding for these obligations. In fact, even more, many such burdens have passed on to the congregations without their knowledge at the time of adoption of laws or regulations. Why? Because there was no dialogue. There was no dialogue. Since the congregations were not informed by officials at national level, they did not ask questions. I am reminded of the words of one of the senior officials, a member of the Ministry of Public Administration, who described such a situation very simply. When a law or law was laid down in connection with the problem of financing, many times they waved their hand, and the congregations would arrange it, which is their problem. Of course they will, but with what? What are they gonna do about it? This is so when the fate of the municipalities is decided on many occasions by officials who do not see through the highway ring around Ljubljana, unless they take a coffee trip to Portorož, which is not possible in the current situation anyway. That is why in the government of Marjana Šarca we have raised the problem of regulating the financing of municipalities together with those who point out these problems. Together with the congregations, we began to clear up what were the unjustified costs incurred by the State to the congregations. To avoid thinking about it, we set up a working group immediately after the start of the mandate to prepare proposals for amendments to the legislation, the main task of which was to reduce the costs of municipalities. It wasn't a style group: when you don't solve a problem, you set up a commission. No, it wasn't such a task force. The working group with people from most government departments and municipal associations was set up by the Government, and it was also responsible. She had a clear mandate, clear tasks, and, most importantly, a timetable. Thus, for the first time in a long time, the group which, according to the local community's belief, led that real dialogue for the first time in a long time. For the first time in years, congregations have been heard, and above all, they have been involved in the search for solutions. And this dialogue was ongoing, even at a time when the municipalities were not satisfied with the average, we all worked together, tried to reduce the costs of municipalities on the one hand, and, on the other hand, regulate the funding system of municipalities so that the average level would not depend on the will of every government. She won't depend on the will of every once in a while. To end the practice of annual bartering, which in fact did not have much to do with the real needs of the municipalities, it went better in the style of who would be stronger in this market. More of this bartering was the adoption of the 2020 budget. Despite the highest measured average so far, you raised a bar and barantals with a coalition. The average is, of course, an extremely grateful field for finding popularity in the mayors. Of course, you will now say to the ruling: “You did not give it back then, but we now raised the average during the epidemic.” But public finances, despite the record budget for the time of the government of Marjan Šarc, have been under severe pressure from the fiscal rule, let us not forget this. Now, the ruling one, with more than a 4-billionth deficit, you've just missed the next few 10 million on the basis of an increase in the average. In order to cut once and for all this practice of bidding the average amount, we, together with the municipalities, engaged in overheating the method of calculating the average in order to achieve a fair living distribution of money among the municipalities, without needing any additional negotiations every year that put in bad will on all sides and expose the problem of averages as a political problem. But it's not a political problem. The financing of municipalities is the financing of meeting the needs of all citizens and citizens. It must therefore be independent of every single authority. We have started the process to achieve this in the government of Marjana Sarca, and I do not know if it is now running, as it is heard at least from the initial explanation of the Minister of Public Administration, and the process is ongoing. And the measures that the Minister of Public Administration added – a set of these measures awaited him at the table. We have defined these measures at the same time as a dialogue with the municipalities on the law on the financial burden of municipalities, and it is good that this dialogue continues and that the measures listed by the Minister of Public Administration are also being implemented. In order to clear the financing of the municipalities, a bill on the financial burden of the municipalities was created by means of a cover that was thrown over the costs of the municipalities. What is before us today was meant to be the first phase of the relief work. At the same time, changing the way in which the average is determined will surely leave the burdens that are unjustifiable on the municipal shoulders, and this law will need to be upgraded in the future. Although the law will not only burden the congregations financially, it will also partly increase their income and partially burden them with administrative burdens. All the solutions in this law are based on the suggestions of the congregations themselves, and this is very important, so the law is written as it seems only right for us — along with those who are appointed by law. Along with those who are appointed by law. The expression of the needs of municipalities and certain municipal competences defines as state and financial obligations from municipal budgets transfers to the state budget. In cases governed by law, municipalities are more or less only an accounting service for the country. Simply put, the municipalities will no longer pay obligations that are by their very nature entirely national obligations and are not linked to the specifics of the individual congregation, but are a universal obligation. Although the form of the law deviates from everyday practice, it is some kind of omnibus law that interferes with nine laws. In the context of the adoption of anti-Korona laws, this is nothing special, but when the law was passed, it was a specialty, which can be justified by the fact that amending individual laws and regulations would take a great deal of time. The law, which, at the same time, weighs this, interferes with the areas of several laws, can be adopted relatively quickly and is rapidly operational. However, the marriage proposal does not hide any Trojan horse. No Trojan horse. It's consistent with all the departments in the laws in which it interferes. All three representative associations of municipalities have repeatedly expressed their full support for the proposed law, and last but not least, when setting the average for this year, when the municipalities made it clear that they would agree to the agreement if a law on the financial burden of municipalities was adopted as soon as possible in the National Assembly, which in turn means a 30- to 40-million-year burden for municipalities there. So, in the government of Marjana Šarca – and this is recognised by the mayors, the mayors, we are recognised by representative associations of municipalities – the state-to-local communities attitude has been raised to a higher level, to a level of dialogue. Indeed, this dialogue has not been in place and it will not be all idyllic in the future, because dialogue is also a compromise. It is important, however, that even when we did not find the common language, we returned to the common table again. Because the congregations are not just the budgetary burden of this country. We cannot and must not put them in a position of financial dependence on each government, and the method of funding cannot be a means of disciplining or demanding the political loyalty of the mayors. After all, we are all congregations. Where are we going? If not, we return at the end of the day — where? To your congregation. And there we expect an appropriate standard of living, which is not quite self-evident. Therefore, in designing a real, fair model of funding for municipalities with this law, we are actually only at the beginning. It is important, however, that in the dialogue we have conducted with the municipalities in the government of Marjana Sarca, we have created a model that can only produce results. Let us not forget, good laws can only be written in close cooperation, in real close cooperation with those to whom the law is intended. This law, the Law on the Financial Disposal of the Congregations, is an example of such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u8	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! That the costs of municipalities to carry out statutory tasks from year to year increase is, in fact, a fact and is known to all. This has also been pointed out by the mayors, and many of us are also faced with this fact when serving as a councillor or a saint. The sources of funding for municipalities are different: income, compensation for the use of building land, fees, concession taxes, donations and so on, but do not follow the requirements for the execution of all tasks in the municipality domain. Representatives of local communities have taken the problem seriously and responsibly. The municipalities have tested their obligations from the point of view of the original competences of municipal tasks and have proposed to the State to examine amendments to the legislation that would reduce their costs arising otherwise from their statutory tasks. This work of the local community has brought cooperation with the Government. In November 2018, the Government, with representatives of representative associations, reached an agreement on the average for 2019, established a specific working body, a working group to examine possible legislative changes within six months in order to reduce the costs of municipalities arising from their statutory tasks. Following this, a proposal for a law on the financial burden of municipalities was drawn up which will relieve the municipalities of certain costs, estimated at around €31 million. In its work, the working group pursued the objective of reducing labour costs and detecting as many as 25 laws that need to be amended to achieve the objective pursued. What payments will the State take over under this law? One of them is the obligation to pay contributions for compulsory insurance for children up to the age of 18 who are educated and are not insured as family members. Funding the tasks of a family assistant, funding the tasks of a mortuary transparent service, then there are changes to the welfare of municipal budgets also in the area of adult education and the Law on administrative fees. On the basis of this information, the administrative fee shall be increased for the location information and an administrative fee shall be introduced for the certificate of conditions for the change in the boundaries of parcels. In view of the fact that the draft law had already been tabled in the legislative procedure in December 2019 and that the circumstances relating to the resignation of the President of the Government and the search for a new one and the subsequent declaration of the epidemic had led to a halt in the legislative process. The representative organisations, called the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, have repeatedly addressed a request to the National Assembly to consider and adopt the proposed law as soon as possible. They assessed that a great deal of work had been done and that it should be done in such a way that the proposal was adopted as soon as possible. And now we can say finally. At the same time, we are also looking forward to what additional burdens the current government and coalition will propose in the next legislative process. We are convinced that the decision on suitability for further consideration will be unanimously supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we will support the proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration, and we will also cooperate constructively and actively in the legislative process. We believe that local communities, with their activities and investment cycles, are helping to boost the country's economic growth and well-being, as has been shown in another crisis. In addition to the time of the spring epidemic, the municipalities organized themselves and helped citizens and citizens to cope most with the problems that occurred at the time of the epidemic. During the time of the epidemic and the end of life, there were significantly more citizens and citizens than in some other normal times. In the coming months, however, the municipalities and citizens will certainly be united and overcome the difficulties brought by this epidemic, in accordance with the principle of solidarity. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u10	The European Charter of Local Self-Government in Article 9 speaks of the financial autonomy of local communities. The financial resources of local authorities must be in proportion to the tasks laid down by the Constitution and the law. The European Charter also recommends that the financial systems on which the resources available to local authorities are based be sufficiently diverse and flexible so that they can, as far as possible, follow the actual movement of the costs of their tasks. In order to protect weaker local communities, it is necessary to introduce financial compensation procedures or other appropriate measures to remedy the effects of the unequal distribution of possible financial resources and the financial burden they bear. The Slovenian Constitution provides in Article 142: «The municipality shall be financed from its own resources. To municipalities which, due to poor economic development, cannot fully ensure the performance of their tasks, the State shall provide additional resources in accordance with the legally established principles and criteria.” The Institute for Comparative Law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana has long observed that our constitution on the principle of financial autonomy is even more determined than the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Therefore, the Constitutional Court in its rulings has repeatedly pointed out that the constitutional design of the municipality requires that it be able to carry out local affairs on its own or to satisfy the needs and interests of its inhabitants, and that it is the legislator's duty to regulate the funding system of municipalities so that the material basis corresponds to the tasks performed by the municipality within its work cycle, which is also a prerequisite for local self-government. As you know, and it has already been said today, in the previous term, we have slightly improved the current model of average calculation. The changes adopted affect the weight of calculating the appropriate consumption of municipalities by taking more account of the demographic structure of the population. Key changes were adopted in pre-school children and in the elderly. The municipalities which have a high proportion of older and younger people, namely, depart from others at higher, high costs of social activities, social protection and education. In addition, the Strategy for the Development of Local Self-Government in the Republic of Slovenia was adopted by 2020, which stated that special attention should be paid to administrative costs and administrative obstacles at the level of the country to which municipalities had been alerted since then. Therefore, the previous government in which we participated has also adopted a law on the financial burden of municipalities by amending nine laws, which are within the competence of the various ministries, to achieve the objective of reducing the costs and administrative burdens and increasing the revenue of municipalities for the performance of their compulsory duties and the constitutional design of municipalities with the aim of carrying out the tasks relating to the local population and of local nature. In these cases, it is not only savings, but, on the basis of the constitutional design of the local task, some municipal powers will now be defined as state powers, thereby transferring the financial obligation from municipal budgets to the state budget. Otherwise, the law, as has already been exposed, is the fruit of the government’s partnership and representative associations of municipalities or special working groups, in which representatives of individual ministries and associations of municipalities participated. While the Working Group has established a total of 25 laws that will need to be amended to achieve the objective pursued. This is therefore a means of reducing the costs for the work of the congregations. The laws were divided into three groups. These nine, which are now being gathered in the draft amendments, have been selected for the first phase because they do not require major systemic changes. Therefore, the working group will continue its work. The Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities as an Omnibus Law, by which the Government proposes the amendment of nine sectoral laws, which are within the competence of various ministries, is therefore only the first of the laws to reduce the costs and administrative burdens of municipalities followed by others in the future. In the SMC Group, we would like to draw attention to some other facts in the context of the consideration of the Law on the Financial Discharge of municipalities. According to our assessment, in 2021 local communities will receive the most funds in both the ZFRO and the agreed averages in the period following the independence of the Republic of Slovenia or since the reform of local self-government in 1994. Already this year, the higher average, which rose from €589 to €624, will generate 73 million more than planned. For the years 2021 and 2022, however, the average increases by an additional 4 euros. This means a higher average of €40 than before the government's performance. A rise in the average and the possibility of a higher municipal debt of about 25% will have a significant impact on the investments already made so that they will not be stopped due to the epidemic. The financial implications of this law will not only be EUR 31 million and a half at the end of the hearing, but will be even higher, as this government has agreed with local communities on some other solutions from the set of 25 laws mentioned above, such as the reduction of the transitional period for co-financing of municipal investments under Article 21 of the Community Financing Act. The amendments to this law will therefore, in the second reading of the draft law, eliminate the transitional period of co-financing of municipal investments, so that 6 % co-financing by state grants is possible in the following year. The largest proportion of this co-financing will be given to municipalities with the largest development hazard index. With the amendments, we will also give special emphasis to the Roma communities. There would be an additional €4.7 million per year for the Roma Councillor. In addition, the State will provide funds to subsidise non-profit rents. On the proposal of the SMC, the amendment prepared by the Directorate for Protection and Rescue will, by means of a proposed change in the financing or co-financing of standardised fire insurance, relieve the municipal budget for the funds of voluntary firefighting companies that have so far been earmarked for such insurance. More about this, of course, in the debate. On the basis of all of this, we will, of course, support the proposal for a law in the SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u12	Dear Presidents, colleagues, colleagues, everyone else! The average has not been adequately aligned in recent years with the increase in the costs of municipalities created by the statutory tasks of the State and it should be stressed that the obligations, tasks and funding of the municipalities to be implemented are determined at the national level. In Levi, we have always supported the financial burden of tasks that do not fall within the primary tasks of municipalities as organisations of local self-government, and it has been time to set out a clear set of tasks for municipalities, according to which funding should also be regulated. The problems would certainly be smaller if reorganisation projects had already been implemented, as the tasks would have been shared between the country, the regions and the municipalities. Since the rulings have failed in 30 years, we must satisfy ourselves with partial solutions that are not systemic — what we find today by all parties. The proposed law, the proposal for a law on the financial burden of municipalities, is understood in Levica as a step in the right direction. Certain tasks will be carried over to the country and will therefore be burdened financially by the municipalities. We are pleased that the congregations will save 31 million euros. In this way, some will be able to reduce their indebtedness and others will carry out several projects under their responsibility for their citizens and citizens. We are less impressed in Levica with the proposal to increase the administrative fee for location information and the introduction of an administrative fee for the production of a certificate on the conditions for changing the boundaries of the plot. In fact, the administrative fee is not the cost of the service, but is the administratively determined amount of the contributions of the person in need of the certificate, the documentation required by the State to carry out the procedure. Therefore, we cannot support an increase in the administrative fee, which is intended to provide additional resources to the municipal budget. The difference needs to be ensured by an appropriate average height. We propose that the articles that change the administrative fee go out of the bill. In the light of the current crisis, when the state budget is also under attack, we are concerned about whether there will be enough money in the budget of the users of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for municipalities to take over the costs of this law. The 31 million that the congregations will save will cover the state budget. The material merely indicates where the necessary money is to be located, but we fear that the ministries will have to take money from someone else and create new injustices. I'm talking about the Ministry of Health and Labour or Social Affairs. Therefore, I ask both competent ministers to explain to us whether there are sufficient resources in their budgets to ensure the implementation of this law, and if there are enough, our second question is which items must be cancelled or reduced and whose users' account. The quick assessment of the proposal, as we understand it in Levica, would be as follows: the proposal does not only mean the unloading of municipalities at the expense of the state, but also at the expense of citizens and citizens. 1.25 million euros at the annual level will be borne by citizens and citizens in the form of a higher fee, a new fee and a notary fee. New fees were also introduced in 2015 and carried by citizens and citizens. Another time. We can agree with the transfer of funding to the death service and the payment of insurance for certain categories of persons. Third time. As far as the family assistants are concerned, only the fire is extinguished. This institute is also used because of the lack of adequate arrangements for long-term care and bed shortages in homes for older citizens, shortages of shelters and even solutions of institutional protection for those in need of medical care. The burden of worry is now passed on to family members who leave their job and care for their neighbor, unfortunately mostly to women. But the responsibility is shared. The state does not regulate the long - term care system, and the municipalities do not build adequate homes for the elderly and other needed facilities. This raises the question of whether municipalities should be encouraged to build homes for older and other accommodation facilities, not even demolishing them with the transfer of financial burdens, of course, in the construction of important infrastructure. And one last time. With regard to the right to a family assistant, the law provides for the prohibition of the burden and disposal of property on the benefit of the State to all owners of immovable property in the following decision. Since the congregation can decide to do so, or later to abandon this requirement, this prohibition of inheritance continues to benefit the State. If the congregation could take a closer look at the matter, the state would certainly not do so. And at the conclusion of your mind. If governments and municipalities have negotiated how to finance municipalities at the expense of the State, the Government should finally propose a new law, i.e. a financial burden for municipalities to increase the average or other co-financing methods by the State. In the proposal before us, this is not only about burdening municipalities at the expense of the state, but also at the expense of citizens and citizens, as I said. Instead of reforming local self-government and financing it, we are thus once again receiving a fire-fighting measure that will hit citizens and citizens in the pocket. The same happened in 2015 when the so-called Zujf municipality was adopted. From then on, neither the previous government nor the current government has dealt with the urgently needed reform of local self-government, but has only been engaged in fire-fighting measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u13	The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia we support the development of local self-government and efforts for coherent regional development of all regions of Slovenia. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, we advocate the right of local communities to regulate, manage and exercise in their own right all public matters from the life and work of the inhabitants of their territory and not to interfere with the rights and obligations of other local communities. The management system must be as close to people as possible and must enable successful planning and coordination of different interests. We advocate the independence of the municipalities, including financial autonomy, which protects local self-government from unjustified interventions by the state. With a view to optimising the costs of municipalities, we will, in particular, encourage smaller municipalities, including financially, to establish bodies of common municipal administrations. If the State entrusts the tasks under its jurisdiction to the municipalities, it must also provide them with the necessary financial resources. Minor, demographically threatened and border municipalities should be provided with financial compensation for their specific needs. Objective and transparent criteria for the allocation of funds to municipalities should be established. The aim of the country must be to provide citizens in all parts of Slovenia with adequate transport, energy and communication infrastructure and to provide other key foundations for life and work, such as primary education, essential health care and care for the elderly. The financial burden of municipalities. The country shall be subject to those obligations which, by their nature, should be the financial cost of the State. The costs of the municipalities for the implementation of mandatory, statutory tasks increased from year to year and the average level did not fully follow. Thus, municipalities have not been able to meet all their obligations on an ongoing basis, and they also lack the resources to carry out development projects and improve local infrastructure. Therefore, associations of municipalities have proposed to the State a study of legislation that would reduce the cost of operating municipalities. Last year, when we adopted the budget for 2020 and 2021 in Nova Slovenija, we proposed an amendment to the law on the implementation of the budget for the next two years, which would raise the average of municipalities to the statutory level. Unfortunately, our proposal has not received sufficient support. Since the average did not rise to the prescribed legal level, the former government began preparing this law to appease the mayors. By replacing the government, conditions have been created to listen to the needs of the municipalities to a greater extent. With the second anti-korona law, we raised the average for 2020 from €589 to €624 and fulfilled our long-standing promises, which we have also written in the coalition contract. The Minister of Public Administration Boštjan Koritnik and representatives of the representative associations of the municipalities reached an average of €628 for the next two years in the preparation of draft budgets for 2021 and 2022. The average will be 40 euros higher than it was before the government's performance. For all the congregations, this together means about €80 million more money. What is the average, and why is its height important? The average is found to be the appropriate amount of resources per capita in the country, which allows the financing of basic tasks imposed on municipalities by laws and other regulations. The Ministry of Finance, by a specific, complex formula, calculates the appropriate consumption for each Slovenian municipality individually. This depends on the length of local roads and public roads in the municipality, the surface area, persons under 15 years old, the proportion of people aged 65 and the total number of people living in the municipality. The average is the basis for calculating the appropriate consumption of the municipality. On average, it depends to a large extent on how much money a congregation will receive for its operation by the state. The municipalities are most familiar with the needs of the population, create conditions for the economy and contribute a large share of GDP with their investments. In this way, if the average is sufficient, the condition of the financial independence of the municipalities is most sufficient. However, another possibility is certainly the relief of the congregations. Today's proposal on the financial burden of municipalities prepared by the previous government brings the following solutions: an increase in the administrative fee for the production of local information due to the difficulty of its production; municipalities are required to adopt an adult education programme every year under the current legislation; an amendment provides that the municipal programme can be adopted for several years together; a new payer of mortuary examinations, autopsy and technical assistance in relation to the State's autopsy is required; an obligation to pay compulsory health insurance is transferred from the municipalities to the State for children up to 18 years of age, persons carrying on the activities of family assistants and foreigners who have a permanent residence permit and are granted the right to financial assistance; the financing of persons performing the work of the family assistant is transferred to the State after the new municipality. In our opinion, the law itself could be even more ambitious and could show even higher savings for Slovenian municipalities. In the coalition, we have already agreed to improve the proposed law, so we have already prepared amendments that will improve the law itself: municipalities are burdened with funds to subsidise applicants for non-profit renting apartments; municipalities' own municipal fees; the identification of potential lenders for which the municipality can be indebted; additional funds for municipalities with a Roma councillor; co-financing of investments and financial incentives for municipalities with community administrations. In particular, we will arrange for the areas of fire - protection and thus relieve the congregations, as this area is poorly regulated. Existing fire protections in the field of the operation of the fire service are broken down by individual fire liaisons or by individual companies and professional firefighting units. In practice, it is a very large number of individual insurance policies with very different insurance coverage. In particular, the insurance is managed differently by the individual municipalities. The Ministry of Defence, in agreement with the Slovenian Association of Firefighters and Firefighters, has prepared a proposal for amendments to the Fire Protection Act and the Fire Protection Act, which would also allow the Republic of Slovenia to finance standardised insurance, including accident insurance, liability insurance and legal protection after the procedure for the conclusion of the typical fire insurance for members of the firefighting organisation, and that the Republic of Slovenia, if the local communities conclude standardised fire insurance for vehicles, equipment and facilities, shall also co-finance these insurances with funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija we support such an arrangement, as we will adopt uniform and standard insurance for both voluntary and professional firefighters, uniform for all municipalities by supplementing the law in the second reading. The cost of insurance will cover the state budget. Members of New Slovenia will support the conclusion next week that the law is suitable for further consideration, and we are already predicting that, together with the coalition parliamentary groups, we will table and support amendments that further burden the municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u16	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the Financial Discharge of the Congregations has been in line for almost a bad year. The legislative process was introduced in December last year, in the time of the previous government. We're proud of it. A number of appeals from individual municipalities and representative associations of local communities in Slovenia also testify to how important the law is. In the light of the current situation, the adoption of the law is even more important as many local communities are facing income losses due to the covida-19 epidemic. The main objective of the proposal is to reduce certain financial obligations of municipalities. Various laws set out the obligations that municipalities are obliged to fulfil, and from year to year there are more of these obligations, making them increasingly difficult to meet. The proposal regulates the reduction of the costs of local communities for the performance of certain statutory tasks and the reduction of administrative procedures, and some revenue from municipalities will also be increased. The proposal intervenes in the field of nine laws. The State will thus assume the obligation to pay a contribution to compulsory health insurance for children up to the age of 18 who are educated and are not insured as family members, to fund the tasks of a family assistant and to finance the tasks of a mortuary transparent service. The administrative fee for location information will be increased and the proposal also introduces an administrative fee for the production of a certificate on conditions for changing the boundaries of parcels, on the intended use of land. The municipalities will be able to adopt the adult education programme for several years together. By adopting this proposal, municipalities would collectively save more than €30 million of municipal funds annually. This would also contribute to the development and stability of individual municipalities and, last but not least, will have a positive impact on the greater autonomy of local self-government. Averages have not been sufficient for all statutory tasks for many years. It is therefore important that we adopt a law that will relieve the financial burden on the municipalities as soon as possible. If adopted, the law will enter into force on the first day of the month following the month in which the law will be enforced. How quickly it will come into force depends only on us legislators, colleagues and colleagues. In modern democracies, local self-government plays a very important role. The conditions for a successful country are stable local self-governments capable of fulfilling the statutory tasks. Therefore, it needs clear development objectives and means to achieve these. The proposal is supported both by individual local communities and by representative associations of municipalities. In the SAB Group, we want an effective, quality and transparent local self-government in the service of citizens, so we will support the proposal in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Local self-government is based on the assumption that effective political decision-making and efficient supply of public goods are achieved when they are provided by the level of authority closest to people. Local authorities have a better knowledge of local environmental problems in dealing with local issues and thus have an opportunity to tackle these problems more effectively. The main objective of autonomous local self-government is to achieve greater national economic benefits measured by economic growth and social equality and to deliver more effectively local public goods than the central government would provide them. It is essential that municipalities are financially autonomous and decide independently on the acquisition and use of financial resources for their operations. This means that they must have sufficient resources of their own in order to cover the costs of the exercise of their legal powers and the possibility of deciding on their use. In developing adequate funding to support the effective functioning of local self-government, we are based on the basic principles of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, which foresee: the proportionality of resources allocated and the tasks of municipalities, the participation of local authorities in resource allocation decisions, the autonomy of local authorities in the management of allocated resources, the participation of local representatives in addressing these issues and the flexibility to adapt resources to changing needs in the local community. The proposed provisions of the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities are understood by Members of the Desus Group as a segment of the further development of the management and performance capacity of Slovenian self-government local communities. The financial effects or burdens of municipal budgets are estimated at EUR 32 million and are most pronounced in three areas: contributions to compulsory health insurance for unemployed persons amounting to EUR 19 and a half million; co-financing of a family assistant of EUR 7 million and EUR 900 000; and costs of a post-mortem transparent service of EUR 3 and a half million. All values are defined in the annual framework. However, such a quantifiable discharge should be placed within the framework for the preparation of the budget of the sector of the State which sets the maximum amount of expenditure of the local units of the sector of the State. For 2020, this is €2 billion and €340 million and €2 billion and €360 million for 2021. Roughly speaking, this is the sum of all municipal budgets at the annual level, which means that EUR 32 million represents 1.3% of the total. The central logic of local self-government is simple: the foundation of modern democracy and legitimacy is the decentralisation of public affairs and responsibilities at a lower level of responsibility. The principle of subsidiarity is the basis of these processes, establishing a vertical division of power that builds vertical competition of competence and responsibility from below. Local self-government simply regulates a whole range of public matters with its own responsibilities, its own resources and the interests of the local population. The relationship between the size of municipalities, their effectiveness in providing local public services and the participation of citizens in local public life has been at the heart of the debate since the introduction of the new system of local self-government in 1994. Discussions on a more effective or democratic size for the municipalities and the administrative reforms that followed took place together with the process of redistributing powers between the two levels of government, state and local. The autonomy of local governments should therefore be understood as a constant search for answers to the question of how to carry out congregation duties. Those who would end or unite at all times must present their proposals in order to enable the municipality, which will be formed in accordance with the interests of the population, to function as a catalyst for creative energy in the local community. The community as a bureaucratic fiction was, is, and will be barren at all times and places. Members of the Desus Group will be assessed in the general debate as suitable for further consideration, and we will therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u20	Good day to all present, especially to the Minister! The proposal for a law on the financial burden of the congregations is a major disappointment. It's just a big address about it. Despite the fact that a working group has been appointed to draft amendments to legislation that will reduce the costs of municipalities, the proposed measures are very modest. In the Slovenian National Party, we expected much more important delegation of powers and thus costs from municipalities to the country. But I'm afraid it's a long way from expected. Although the title of the Law states that there is a financial burden on the congregations, it must also be said that there is an additional financial burden on people. In the Slovenian National Party, we oppose an increase in the administrative fee for local information and the introduction of an administrative fee for the production of a certificate on conditions for changing the boundaries of parcels. According to the applicant's assessment, this would cost ordinary citizens a circus of €250,000. We support the transfer of certain tasks and costs to the country, such as the payment of a mortuary transparent service or the financing of the tasks of a family assistant. However, we do not support the payment of the contribution to compulsory health insurance for foreigners who have a residence permit and who are granted the right to pay the compulsory insurance contribution. This is an entirely unnecessary cost for the congregations and for the country. Foreigners should come to Slovenia to work, not for financial social assistance or other social transfers. We've had enough of these in our house. In the Slovenian National Party, we expected this law to contain much more concrete measures, but on the contrary – it contains much less concrete measures. We only hope that the next proposals for laws on the burden of the congregations will be more serious or more concrete. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. But before that, Minister Boštjan Koritnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you, Chairman. I sincerely thank all Members for their views, for, as I understand it, their principled support for the proposal. I would just like to respond – or further explain – because in that brief presentation I could not – to the question of the honourable Member of the Cigler of the Left with regard to budget intervention. I can ensure that, with the adoption of this law, there will be no interference with the existing budget line. Once the law is adopted, the funds will be transferred from the budget reserve. Nor would it be appropriate for something to be foreseen in the budget, which, of course, does not yet have a legal basis, so that without concern, there is no interference with what is in the budget. However, the funds are also reserved for those 30 plus millions of euros on the basis of now, I would say, set out in this legislative text and additional funds for possible amendments. I certainly hope and believe that in this legislative process we will further improve this legal text with your help, and of course we are open and will be grateful for proposals and suggestions in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, get Joseph Horvat ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Ministers and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I'll start like this. Finally! The law was introduced into the state procedure as early as December 2019, today almost a year after that, and finally we have this law on the table. Second, why am I finally speaking? Because in recent years there has been no hearing or suggestion in the field of local self-government. Otherwise, I would like to reach out to a number of laws with this proposal, but somewhere we need to start and this is a step in the right direction. With this proposal on the table today, we are interfering with nine different laws for the financial burden of the municipalities. Since the congregations carry out various tasks, one is determined by law, the other is commissioned by the congregation itself, and the other is transferred from the country to the congregation, although we do not officially have these thirds. But for all these tasks, the congregation needs funds. The conditions are improving, the average has improved in recent years, and as seen in the budget documents, this will also be the case in the coming years. Yet, for many years the congregations have warned and continue to warn that with the resources available, they are unable to perform all the tasks transferred from country to country and thus interfere with the tasks they are entrusted with themselves. Today's proposal is the fruit of a broad consensus between the representative associations of the municipalities and the government, which is a welcome one, and finally, on the basis of these proposals that we will adopt – because a wider consensus of all political parties in the National Assembly is being heard – it will be possible for the municipalities to devote these funds to others. Any proposal that will burden the municipalities will allow them to provide their resources for their original tasks, such as the economic development of municipalities, the construction of dwellings, the care of increasing the renting social fund, the management and regulation of local economic services, the construction and maintenance of local roads, public roads, as the municipalities here are extremely different from each other, as well as investment in recreational and other areas and maintenance of water and energy facilities and could also be listed. These tasks do not run out of local communities. At this point, I would also like to touch on the standards and standards for kindergartens that come into force in 2023, which provide that at least 3 m2 of kindergarten space should be for children. The Minister just yesterday stated that responsibility on the part of the local communities is called mayors and municipal councils to ensure adequate conditions for children. This place is rightly – and yesterday I had quite a few calls from the mayors – asking how to provide these funds for the necessary investments, since almost 75% of the local community's budget is already spent on mandatory tasks and resources for the necessary investments are simply running out. Therefore, such a proposal, which we now have in our consideration, which will at least release some of the funds, is welcome. In fact, these costs, which are mentioned above, do not fall within the scope of local competence. In this place, I also have to catch up on the fact that the municipalities are the first to solve the problems of the local population. It is not possible to overlook these problems in the face of natural disasters, reptiles, floods, storms and only through the means provided can they help their citizens and citizens in distress. At the time of the first proclamation of the epidemic, the congregations have also done an extremely important work, and this is followed now, for with everything they do, they help to maintain the quality of life of citizens and citizens. Solutions addressed by the law. I'd like to mention a few of them. The area of payment of compulsory health insurance rights as well as compulsory health insurance rights for children up to the age of 18 who are not dependent family members is transferred to the country. As soon as the rights of the adoption of the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources were exercised, when the centres for social work decided to do so, it seemed correct and logical for me to have this cost covered by the State and not by the local community. Because someone decides the matter and then falls under the burden only and only on the local community, it did not seem right to me, and this is a step in the right direction. The right to finance a family helper transferred from the congregation to the country will also bring some relief to the congregations. It is also important to point out that this right is decided by the Centre for Social Work and that the municipality is only implementing the decision at the moment. In doing so, there are quite a few problems with the mere marking of the ban on the part of the congregation, and when this task is transferred to the country, it seems to me that the burden of work on the local community, the congregation, and also the problems will be significantly lower. The payment of the mortuary transparency service is also taking a step in the right direction. The reduction of administrative tasks in adult education is also commendable, but there will be no burden on financial resources, but only on administrative work. The aim of the law is also to generate a few more funds or revenues from the local community, thus increasing revenues from administrative charges for location information. It also seems important to me that notaries pay administrative fees and, last but not least, the local community is the fundamental cell of the state acquis in which the rights and interests of the local population are realized. I am in favour of all the above-mentioned law. But I also expect, as has been said several times today, that the coalition will prepare amendments, which we are very difficult to talk about today, because we do not yet have the amendments, but we have only what we have been invited by the representative unions and also these proposals, which I support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Boštjan Kortnik with a colleague, dear colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, allow me to thank, on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, the current colleague, formerly Minister Rudi Medved, who has made an obvious lot of efforts to reach a text that we can say today, and the coalition has united here that there is a good way for further discussion when we are talking about decommissioning the municipalities. And I am pleased today with this relatively broad support for this law in the first reading. Of course, I believe that all the parliamentary groups, not just the coalition that has announced the contents of some amendments today, will be involved and that this law will be improved. The new Slovenia has never challenged that this law in the original text interferes with nine laws and that this is not in accordance with the rule of law. Colleagues and colleagues, I think we can stop once and for all with such approaches and criticisms. For us, it is crucial that the law is effective, that in this case local communities, read citizens, benefit. As you know, Nova Slovenija has enshrined the principle of subsidiarity both in its programming documents and in its political behaviour. Let me just remind you, because I mentioned it here several times before, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, ratified by the National Assembly on 15 November 1994, signed about a month earlier that we could then have some legal European framework, some European principles on local self-government, when we first went to the local elections on 4 December 1994. Sometimes it seems very learned — what does this principle of subsidiarity really mean? It is very difficult to say the definition at home, in fact, some dry legal terms are not close to me. This principle is true, however, that things must be arranged in the smallest, lowest or least centralized city. Or even more after home, a higher source in the hierarchy must trust the lower one to solve as many challenges as possible at his level with his capabilities, with his abilities. In this respect, we will continue to pursue a good environment to carry out the tasks laid down in the law of local self-government. On the one hand, we talk a lot about average. It is good if this average, once again in the principle of subsidiarity, is in some way agreed between the Government and the local communities. In this context, my recognition to Minister Boštjan Koritnik, who recently reached an agreement on the average for the following year, 2021, and for 2022. This agreement, signed by the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, and, of course, the Minister responsible for public administration or responsibility for local self-government, says: in 2021, the average will be 628.20 euros and for 2022 will be at the same level. This average for 2021 has already been recorded in the coalition contract in Chapter 5 of the Finance, and these numbers are actually copied from the amendment, which we signed with colleague Daniel Krivec at that night's meeting. Let me repeat for 2020, this year at 623,96 euros. This matter has already been implemented since the anti-Korona package, which activated this provision under the Coalition Treaty, entered into force on 1 May. Unlike the solution reached so far by the previous government, it is almost €35, which means sumarum sumarum amounts to about 70 million more money for Slovenian municipalities. We regret that all governments, here too, can call mea culpa, to date have failed to implement and adopt a real estate tax law that, according to our assessment, would be one of the key financial resources of each municipality. Today we speak, well, we do not, but more from the left political spectrum, that the rich, read those who have high wages must pay more that they need to be taxed more. This is the wrong approach. It is necessary to tax the property. Today, the best or relatively good comes from those with millions of assets, millions of assets, and the congregations lack much of it. But okay. We are aware, however, that whenever we are trying to reduce our income, we are in fact in some way hitting the pocket of Slovenian municipalities with a second hand. The next debate – of course today it is not a topic. What we see in Novi Slovenija, that we need to do for the municipalities, is debirocratisation. I expect the Strategic Council, led by Mr Ivan Simic, to find out where the coalition first agrees, what measures we will then take with those laws. Ladies and gentlemen, there is probably no agreement between us that it is normal in one country, in our country of Slovenia, that procedures for a municipal spatial plan or a change in the municipal spatial plan take several years. It's not normal. Nine years, I know a few cases. And we need to fix these things. Life just runs fast, situations are unpredictable, and we cannot spend a decade changing a congregation’s spatial plan. We also dealt with this and looked into the congregation’s assignment. Today, together with the Ministry of Finance, we can see that the extent of the total indebtedness of municipalities and public sector legal persons at the level of municipalities for the previous year at global level is not worrying. He's not worried. We have several municipalities that are dramatically indebted, which means that it will not be possible to develop within the next one or two mandates of the local community, says four or even eight years. Here we ask ourselves how it is possible for a congregation to be so indebted that it can no longer breathe for four or more years. But since there has already been some talk on the subject of improvement, the upgrade of this marriage, let me say that while I have already expressed my support for the marriage and I am not critical of this law interfering with nine laws, we are adding an intervention, I think, at least three more. Once again, someone may be troubled that we are not following the rule of law, but that the effectiveness of legislation is crucial for us. We will touch on and improve the issue of co-financing the realization of the rights of the permanently populated Roma community. I also mention this because I come from a congregation with a Roma community. While we have settled everything in the past, indeed everything for this Roma community has been drained by European resources for sewerage, plumbing and so on. But this needs to be said, on condition that the local community has a Roma councillor, and also, I would be added that all citizens of this country must also be aware of their responsibilities. We talk many times about rights, rights, rights, and accountability. This is the wrong approach. We have 20 such congregations, and this is where we are going for improvement. It is true that I recall and that we have been careful about providing funds to municipalities to co-finance investments during the transitional period. In this context, I also welcome and express some satisfaction that I have seen from the mayors and mayors who met with our government after the Government of the Republic of Slovenia negotiated good financial parameters for the next multi-annual financial period, as well as resources for recovery and resilience. We're also interfering with the Housing Act. Now I am not going in detail, just so much so that I may instruct the opposition in which direction we want to upgrade this law. And, of course, also, this has already been mentioned today, in the Fire Act and the Fire Protection Act. It's not for no reason. We know what a local community has to do to protect itself from fires. As it is said, two additional laws are included in the laws that reduce the costs of municipalities, I repeat the Fire Protection Act and the Fire Protection Act, which, with the proposed change in the financing or co-financing of standardised fire insurance, relieve the municipal budget for the funds that the municipalities have so far earmarked for such insurance. So these collaterals are now at the burden of the country's budget. This is a significant drain on the budgets of Slovenian municipalities. The proposal thus allows, at least our proposal, the Republic of Slovenia, after establishing standardised fire insurance for persons, equipment, vehicles and infrastructure by the Ministry of Defence, which is responsible for fire safety, to enable local communities to finance accident insurance, liability insurance and legal protection following the establishment of standardised fire insurance for members of the firefighting organisation. If the local communities conclude standardised fire insurance for vehicles, equipment and facilities designated by the Ministry of Defence, the Republic of Slovenia shall also co-finance these insurances by means of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The funds of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia shall also include the means of a fire charge for such insurance. I think that these will be the solutions that virtually all Members and Members will support. I will not go into the details now, but I would like to thank Minister Boštjan Koritnik and the Minister responsible for fire safety, the Minister of Defence, who, if this law is adopted, will have some specific tasks to lay down specific rules relating to the solutions I have announced. I also thank the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence of Mags here. Damian Jaklin, who sat with the coalition members to make meaningful proposals and then decided, on the basis of all this, to proceed with this law, i.e. to the first reading and then to the standard parliamentary procedure. I support these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, get Robert Polnar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I will start today's debate with a call addressed through the social media by the Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor, who I think should be the basis for today's debate. I am talking about that Maribor is only in 208th place after the appropriate financing of Slovenia's municipalities. This means that in the past, serious errors have been made to the municipalities, which apparently do not have obligations that other congregations have, according to the tasks assigned to them, fall on the tail itself. And this is the information produced in the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. I didn't get this whole list, but I am trying to get it, and I also think that the ministry should respond to this list first because it shows that there are certain irregularities in the system. The proposal that we are considering today seems very good to me because, in fact, the burdens are tied to users, i.e. to the population, but I will somehow touch on the past first. So we know that the formation of 200 municipalities represented the stagnation of Slovenia in a developmental sense, and this needs to be made clear, and clearly indicates that the mayors could have been Members at the time. I will, of course, be stagnation, developmental inequality, especially the Municipality of Maribor, because in this area, according to the information with which Mr. Mayor came to us, she was deprived. [[…]] These things need to be addressed. If we look at the law at the time, then the law stipulated that the municipality must have a primary school, that it must provide a health ambulance, that it must have a store, that it must have a mail, that it must have a library and a social space and 5,000 inhabitants. Looking at the then criteria, which are now clearly repealed, this means that the then legislator did not even have one future and future developments in mind, because, for example, economies did not mention even one of the broader social needs that are self-sustaining in a single normal world. Then we also talk about other ways of financing the municipality, the average is not the only income of the municipality, but income is also a variety of compensations or water rents. Here I would like to point out the water compensation that municipalities along the Drava River receive from the concessional use of the Drava River. 60 % of this duty shall be distributed among the municipalities. Here I will ask why the population of Markovci receives 20 times more than the population of Maribor? This is also injustice. It is not only that, for example, the population of Ptuj receives four times less resources than the population of Markovci. Here we see, in fact, one generator, how probably certain municipalities were formed, because the mayors were so clever at the time and somehow pushed these matters forward. Then we're talking about income. In particular, the municipality of Maribor is being created, or I will say, from the Drava River area, an excessive value is being created, subsidised by electricity production and 2 000 500 jobs in the Shaleska Valley. The construction of power plants on the lower Sava and the jobs there are also subsidised or financed. You know, when jobs are financed from this area at the other end of Slovenia, there is also funding for the operations of municipalities and other matters based on income. And when we speak of an appropriate use, we will have to address these challenges, these injustices, these injustices, so that all congregations will have approximately comparable resources for development. I was appalled that in this way I learned from the media that Maribor was only in 208th place after the eligibility of funding and that this information was not made public. Because if we are to address the problems that the congregations have, we need to make the problem our core concern. Of course, I will support these proposals that we have here. I expect, however, that we will resolve these irregularities, which, not only the irregularities, have been caused by certain anomalies in the past, even as part of the removal of inadequate funding, and that all fellow Members of this proposal and the anomalies that we will place on the amendments will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Polnar, prepare Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Local self-government has become an indicator of the democratic nature of the individual system. As a particular area of autonomous public law, it is the foundation of social and state regulation in all modern European countries. The re-established principle of subsidiarity, which is exercised by decentralisation of public affairs or competences at the most appropriate level, played a decisive role in this regard. The principle also has a philosophical and legal meaning and, in institutional and administrative terms, constitutes a continuous reflection on the allocation of competences regarding the regulation and decision-making of public affairs and the means for their implementation. The principle of subsidiarity seeks a constant balance between the freedom of an individual and the various authorities. It also means that the country and the international institutions, in particular the European Union, take account of the role and position of local and regional authorities in each country. It is a matter of constant reflection on the sharing of competences with regard to the regulation and management of public affairs between the State and local communities. The formula for the division of powers gives the lowest or fundamental level of authority anything that cannot be better and more effective or more rationally achieved at a higher level. In Slovenia, the funding bases of municipalities are provided by the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government. As the basic source of the Constitution and the law, they place funding from their own resources. The most important tax source of funding for municipalities is income. The relevant financial resources and assets of municipalities are an essential financial and material component of local self-government. The financing of local self-government in Slovenia is governed by the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which primarily governs the financing of basic tasks under municipal jurisdiction, and also lays down the rules on borrowing and in particular the co-financing of investments carried out by municipalities. The financing of municipalities is based on the principles of local self-government, in particular on the principle of proportionality of sources of funding with the tasks of municipalities and on the principle of the autonomy of municipalities in the financing of municipal tasks. In fact, the law does not provide the content of the principle of proportionality of funding sources with tasks, but sets out a number of instruments to achieve the objectives of that principle. One of the most important instruments is the appropriate spending institute, which has been identified for each financial year as a suitable amount of funding for financing under the law of certain tasks. The appropriate amount of resources is based on a formula which allocates the average per capita through the weighting mechanism to individual municipalities according to their number of inhabitants and other criteria based on geographical and demographic differences between Slovene municipalities. The appropriate consumption of the municipality is linked to the actual needs of the appropriate spending mechanism through the average, which together with certain criteria or factors of the diversity of municipalities forms an equation of appropriate consumption. However, the average per capita in the country is estimated to be the appropriate amount of funding under the law of certain tasks. The Community Funding Act also sets out a share of the income which represents a decommissioned tax source to finance appropriate spending. As of 2009, the municipalities have been allocated an income of 54% of the allocated income. Individual municipalities account for 70% of the allocated share, while 30% of the source is the basis for solidarity balancing between municipalities with a weaker tax structure. If the municipality is unable to provide a calculated amount of eligible expenditure with its own and decommissioned resources, it shall provide for the Law on the Financing of the Communities for the Integration of the Financial Equalisation Mechanism by which the country provides the missing financial resources from the integrated budget. This ensures the implementation of the first principle of local self-government, which discusses the proportionality of sources of funding with powers and tasks and the resulting costs. Another important principle, the principle of the autonomy of municipalities, can only be realized if the municipalities derive most of their revenues from their own resources and are as low as possible dependent on any aid or grant of an integrated budget. As a rule, the Community funding system should allow for as high a level of self-sufficiency as possible, which means that they would not need to use the financial compensation mechanism. The mandatory tasks of the municipalities include development tasks. An important part of the cost of carrying out development tasks is shown in municipal budgets as an investment expenditure or as an investment transfer. The municipalities finance investments primarily with other financial resources, not with State funds or with funds obtained under the appropriate spending mechanism. Adequate spending is expected to provide an adequate amount of funding under the law of certain tasks. However, its calculation only takes into account current expenditure and current transfers, not investment expenditure and investment transfers. This has a negative impact on the current and future financial resources of municipalities. Investments constitute a direct form of the implementation of the development tasks of the municipality. They refer to the use of financial resources to maintain and increase municipal property in the form of municipal or social infrastructure in the form of land, equipment and equipment and other tangible and intangible property. The development tasks of municipalities are also defined in legislation such as Article 21 of the Law on Local Self-Government and the implementation of these tasks requires financial investment. The lack of an existing funding system is mainly due to the fact that the investments of municipalities from the country's point of view are seen as parallel, often less important, activities of municipalities. However, investments at local level enable the needs and interests of local people to be met and, above all, represent a task to be carried out with proportionate financial resources, so amendments in the form of amendments to Article 21 of the Law on Local Self-Government are envisaged to be a very welcome element of the additional future funding of municipalities. However, it is always necessary to ask whether this target of 6 %, as set out in the law, of 6 % of the total eligible consumption of municipalities, is sufficient or would also need to be modified. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk to you about a methodology to calculate the average costs of financing municipal tasks. The basis for calculating the average costs is the Regulation on the methodology for calculating the average costs for the financing of municipal tasks. It lays down a methodology for calculating the average cost per capita in the country and, in particular, this is a key input element for the calculation of the appropriate consumption of the municipality. This is basically the monetary value per capita needed by the local community during the budget period to finance all current costs incurred in the implementation of its statutory tasks. The calculation, on the basis of the methodology in question, provides for the financing of only current costs and necessary recovery necessary for the smooth functioning of the infrastructure by which public services are provided, but does not provide funding for new investments and public services provided by the local community outside the prescribed set. This is about correcting the term I used, not about financing, but about co-financing new investments. The methodology is based on statistical and substantive observation, monitoring and analysis of the average costs incurred by the Slovenian municipalities in the past period. As a selected period, it requires an analysis of the last four calendar years of costing prior to the year of observation per capita in a municipality for which there is sufficient quality and statistical and materially comparable data. In addition to the costs identified in the past period, the methodology also provides for the possibility of correcting the necessary financial resources in the next period due to the introduction of new or termination of existing statutory tasks. The Law on the Financial Discharge of Communities, which we are considering in the general debate today, is therefore a good time to consider some modification of the methodology just mentioned. In particular, in the part where the last four calendar years are used, which, according to the dynamics with which the municipalities are facing their funding, can also spoil the actual situation created in the previous financial year. This is said to be considered very seriously, and it will also be accepted in a relatively short time that the period of four calendar years will only be reduced to the last financial year in which the municipal budget was implemented. In this area, however, there is still a fundamental decision-making dilemma, either to adjust the scope of the tasks of the municipalities to available resources or to adapt the resources available to the scope of the tasks. This is a square circle that no one has been able to solve, and our goal must be to at least get close to optimal resolution. In any event, it will be necessary to consider increasing the tax revenues of municipal budgets in particular. As I have repeatedly pointed out so far, on average, income from revenue in total revenue from municipal budgets is between 70% and 75%, so the only serious prospect for additional funding of municipalities is to raise or increase the share of income, the ones earmarked for the financing of municipalities, or to consider that in the future as a financial resource for co-financing of municipalities, the share of the largest tax source in the state budget is to be considered part of the value added tax. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is what I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we will not only talk about the importance of the congregations, which is often done. Many times in the National Assembly, we talk about how important the congregations are, how important the added value is, and we are still far from being saved. We're taking solutions today. Of course, the initial route, we have some further procedures, but we are starting to take solutions and this is important. Let me also point out the fact that this government, which is today, is at stake. Why am I saying this? It is not just that we want to always point out things that we are preparing ourselves, but that we also know that we take into account the proposals that have been made in the past and are good, good at the starting point. And today, on this basis, we are considering this law. What the Minister has said is also crucial, but it seems to me that it is necessary to re-emphasize it. It is the progress of the drafting of the law, which is created at the Ministry under Minister Koprivnikar, on the basis of the working group he established, which regularly meets and with cooperation shows that we can come up with better and better solutions. And that's the way to go. Here again my disappointment over the opposition. If we accepted the government's call for cooperation that we have given you in the past, we might be able to prepare this law together in this part when we are looking for further solutions for further improvement. But the way is just the way it is now, and of course, there will probably be some sort of separate issue that comes at second reading. I also have to think of the course of averages. This is important. For the municipalities, the averages were very important. The fact is that this government fulfils the promises, including the commitments made in the coalition agreement, and already in the anti-korona package we fixed the averages, we raised them. It is also important that it is somehow already agreed on averages for 2021 and 2022. This is what is very important – that it is also working for the future and not just for this moment. In short, despite the fact that the government is really obsessed with solving the crisis that we are in because of the Coronavirus pandemic, it proves how proactive it is in other areas as well. And that's very important. Indeed, for local communities, this law will certainly be of great added value when it is adopted. Finally, the costs of municipalities are being reduced, the real costs of municipalities are increasing, some revenue of municipalities are increasing, this is another important solution, and a third solution that is not insignificant and we have major problems in Slovenia, administrative procedures or the removal of administrative barriers. That's what this law brings. In short, a number of key things. Given that the Minister has formed this working group, he has, of course, also come up with some other solutions or proposals for solutions that are very important during these meetings. Which are very important. I would point out some, because the fact is that it is necessary to listen to those who are appointed by law. This is where it happened, of course, in some arrangement, what we can all do together. Simplification of the allocation procedures. You know, this is very important. Even if we look at small congregations that sometimes have problems with certain procedures. For them, there are a lot of red tape, some obstacles, they don't have a sufficient number of employees, employed experts, and that's important. This may seem so banal when it is only written down, but those working in the field of local communities know exactly how important this is, since it is then a means of co-financing investments from the state budget. And that's investment, that's community development. We need well - developed congregations if we are to want the good functioning of the country. Then simplifying the short-term indebtedness of the municipalities – an excellent proposal. For it will also help the congregations to progress faster and better. Then the compulsory payment of accident insurance, liability insurance and legal protection for firefighting services go to costs or there will be a State obligation. You know, we really like to talk about firefighters in here, sometimes someone says they're a fireman, just to give the power to this one, I'll tell the family. For me, firefighters are family. Not the company, the family. Here again is one measure that is very important. It's a very important action. Minister, I'm here personally, I must say, very grateful that you haven't forgotten about the municipalities that have problems with the Roma population. This is not about my personal gratitude, but about the gratitude of the people and the congregations involved. And I believe that is the case with the other members of the subcommittee that we have in the National Assembly on this subject. Also colleague Predrag Baković is now in the hall and he is also one of those who very much advocates for the best possible solutions, quality solutions. I'd like to add something here. It's very important that we see where these funds go. I hope you understand. So that they can actually solve the problems that are the most pressing moment between the Roma and the rest of the population. These problems are currently the most important and will be how this money will be directed. I'm not going to say that these are huge sums, but they are important sums and a lot of good can be done in this area. So this is a very important measure and once again, more than I support it. If I could, I'd press the button twice. Now there are some other problems that are not related to this marriage. Minister, you really are not the one who should hear this, but I believe that within the Government you can transfer this to other colleagues as well. It is congregations, especially small congregations, that have literally begun to deal with questions that should logically be resolved for a normal life. It's about canceling the mail. This is the abolition of postal services by municipalities. Look, I'm coming from around New Town, around New City, there's these post office terminations going on, and the residents have to go miles, it's not a mile to the post office now, but it's miles to get to the post office. Someone's going to say, because it's not a problem, and today we all come from one point to another very quickly, as far as mobility is concerned. But let's also look at the older population, and let's look at vulnerable groups that, by shutting down their mail, seriously reduce the quality of being in the municipalities. Second. Banking cancellations. That's what's going on. I know it's connected and it's about actions that are linked to banks, but the country here should find some solutions. Because it's not just that they're closing down bank offices, they're shutting down ATMs. The congregations take the ATM, the congregations take the mail, and now tell me what life is like in the congregation. And that's what they are, I'll say, maybe you'll say about some of them, because that's not so hot. [[…]] It's hot, and it's important to those people who live there. I am really calling here for something to be done in this area as soon as possible, allowing citizens and citizens of these smaller municipalities to maintain the quality of life they had in these areas. In short, of course, this is the first consideration of the law, and I support it, but I look forward to the next set when we can also talk about amendments, with which we will certainly make an important move in this area, and in particular the call to seek solutions in other areas as well. For, as it is said, it is very important that we listen, it is very important that we cooperate, and perhaps we should also remember all Members and Members in this national assembly when cooperation is refused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Jedhan, and he's going to be discussing Željka Ciegler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Minister with fellow Members, other distinguished and distinguished viewers and viewers, welcome! Today we are discussing an important law, a law that we have drawn up in the previous government in close cooperation with local communities, i.e. with all associations of Slovenian municipalities. This is a law that could have been adopted before parliamentary holidays if there had been a little more effort in the National Assembly. I know he was blocked by two marriages, but there was no effort. But accepting it now and accepting it as soon as possible will be beneficial. The law itself, after some rapid calculation, is likely to bring, Minister, at least some 40 million euros a year for Slovenian municipalities, with these new measures that you have announced, which is good. And I want to tell you, honourable Members, why I think it is good. Unlike the Ljubljana authorities, I think of the state authorities, where officials simply lose contact with people, the mayors and mayors have to look their people in the eye every day and are very simply asked what useful things you have done for us, what useful things you have done with our money for us, and they need to know the answers. This can be the greatest assurance of why in local self-government a number of projects are still being carried out well and why local self-government can be more successful than national policy in some development projects. That's the first thing. The other thing I'd like to say is this. When we talk about the situation of municipalities – and I must say this because it is related to this law – we must not forget that there is still this intermediate rate in Slovenia, to which even the constitution travels, i.e. the region. Ladies and gentlemen, you know I come from Prekmur. When I was Minister of Agriculture and the Environment at some point, we were able to carry out one of the biggest and most necessary projects for Pomurje as a whole, this is the three legs of the waterworks of Pomurje. We are, if we look back today, at how the project was already implemented at the time and how we sat in front of my presence every month – the Ljubljana office came to Pomurje every month and talked to all the mayors, why some things in the drawers stand, what else to do – we have actually put the lost project into life by building three steps of the pomura water supply that provides some kind of backup, even now that climate change is a fact. However, this project was not completed. The projects have not been completed enough and this second part of the second leg, this is water B, is now obviously going to be built. Here I also thank everyone, both the representatives of the Government and all others who have helped to ensure that the project, which is worth 33 million, is essential in order to ensure security as regards the supply of quality drinking water for Gorička, will be implemented, but we have learned something. Such very large projects by a small congregation alone simply cannot be carried out. We need regional organisation. We are now saving the 33 million-million-dollar project of the Pomeranian water pipeline 2 – I must give all recognition to the Premur and Pomeranian mayors, they have made their people available to the municipality that runs the project, and the Government has come across, and I also respect it, and I thank the Government, as it appears, that we will successfully implement this project – but the fact that we have learned is that we need regions as such so that we can move the big projects forward. Even now, with respect and respect, we have a new financial perspective, where relatively much money is available for such things. I have no idea what the future will be like if everything depends on our congregations, which I respect. So this is also an initiative for you, Mr. Minister. You too, in accordance with your responsibilities, although I know that other activities are taking place, make your energy and your people available, at least try to get there, because things are already well prepared, to the regions in a rational way, of course, so that they will also be properly financed, and also by placing part of the administration from Ljubljana in regions. This will be a strong opposition to this administration, they will prove why this is not going to work. It is nice to live here in Ljubljana, but people have to be on the ground and with regionalisation we can distribute part of the administration across regions, and then people will really look at the ones they work for every day in the eyes and believe me that some things will move faster. Last but not least, since I am already addressing you, Minister, despite all that is important for the development of Slovenia, remember that the seconds are almost counting down as far as electoral legislation is concerned. Under the previous Minister, we have come so far that the matter has almost been adopted, and an alternative proposal has been prepared. Today I think we are already deep towards the end of October, at the end of the year is almost here, do not let them then point out to you with the obvious that you did not do this on purpose, so as not to allow the elections to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. He has the word Željko Cigler, followed by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Your Honor! First of all, thank you, Mr Minister, for your reply, where you told me that co-financing of municipalities would take place, practical reinforcements would take place from the budget reserve. Another time. I would like to say that I have gladly listened to Mrs Tina Bregant on the Health Committee today and to Joseph Horvat here, both of whom said that municipal funds must be increased in such a way as to pass a real estate law and to tax those who have property. An important part of this law is intended for the financing of municipalities. If you are serious, we have already warned about this in the past in Levica, here you have absolute support, a coalition to get this way, through taxation of property, additional resources to finance municipalities that would make it easier to do the many things that are needed today for the development of the community and for the well-being of citizens and citizens living here. I would like to say that every time the budgets are adopted, we are making amendments to increase the co-financing of municipalities and, in particular, the school space, many other things that have been in the past. Unfortunately, these things are not being taken into account. In doing so, I would also like to point out in person because I have worked in the congregation to ensure that the State does not provide funds or simply things that should be financed by the State for many of its own things that it accepts, new obligations for local communities, or simply things that it should finance, its duties. What is not financed, and I am saying this for how long, for example, is the enforcement of decision-making decisions for primary schoolchildren. Since this is not done by the State, it is financed by the municipalities. Another time. When the country adopts the criteria, the standards for the functioning of primary schools, this also includes spatial conditions. The country accepts it, it does not finance it. Look, it's still not out there. What is it? — calls for the co-financing of local communities for kindergartens and schools, and this will then have to be financed by municipalities from the enlarged principal. We need to be more specific here. Next. School transport is also an important segment that, for example, burdens municipal budgets. If we have managed for older citizens, and this is correct, to ensure that public transport is subsidised from the state budget so that they can drive free of charge, why not arrange for school transport as well? In particular, rural municipalities, which are smaller by number of inhabitants but which stretch across a vast area, use 20, 25 or 30 % of their budget to co-finance transport. That's what I'd say. My so-called Minister of Cygler, Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, is to meet with municipal structures and those working on issues of concern and relationship with older citizens. In fact, it is important that, if there are not enough beds in nursing homes, the State provides a large proportion of the funding for home aid subsidies. Because many elderly citizens need help at home, but they cannot go to a retirement home, but they do not have the money to do so. And that's what I'd like to say. It is also important to provide assistance to municipalities in environmental recovery. If we helped Mižica, if we helped Velenje in Ležno, if we helped Celje through kindergartens, let us also help Anhove to establish a new water supply that will not take place in the industrial field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is given by Iva Dimic and will be discussed by Predrag Baković. Message, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Hello, distinguished minister! When we talk about positive things about local communities and communities in which we live, of course everyone wants to win a medal and say something, it seems very important to us how citizens live or live in individual congregations. The fact is, I can say that New Slovenia is already well remembered by all that night meeting of the Committee on Finance, here I also mention a little of my colleague, a friend of Dejan Židan, when there was no willingness to accept the amendment that was adopted on the committee and talks about a higher average for municipalities. [[…]] When this money could be used usefully for the benefit of the public, the congregations, of course, would not have been pleased. Perhaps also because then Minister Bertonzel said that if this amendment or if it was accepted at the main hearing, it would then be irrevocably waived. It may have been fear or desire for power, or it may have been purely and simply a misunderstanding of what it meant to feed the congregations or to sustain the congregation’s budget. I have to say that for a long time I have been able to monitor in detail what has happened to the local community in recent years. In recent years, local communities have received only debts but have not received funding sources. Therefore, the first thing this coalition did was to raise the average for 2020 to 623,96 euros and for 2021 to 628,20 euros. This was something that the congregations needed, something that was real if we want to talk about any local government at all. It seems to me that it is very important, all those who once might have been congregational saints or saints, to know how the congregation budget is drawn up. Today's proposal, which we will of course support in New Slovenia, as well as certain amendments, will follow, talks about how we will try to relieve the municipalities and transfer these duties to the country. Today, there was also talk about the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. It is true that the account of kindergartens was transferred from the congregations to the local community. I remember, at the time, quite a few municipalities sent a letter that this was being transmitted to CSD and they simply did not have any more checks on their money. CSD, social work centres, then began to account for reduced payment of kindergartens, and the municipalities had to cover it up without knowing whether anyone was really justified or how things were. It seems to me that at that time, with this law, ZUPJS, we started to take some autonomy for the first time to the local communities. Nor did they get data to know who, how many beneficiaries there are in terms of reducing payment for kindergartens. Then it went on and on. I remember, of course, during the financial crisis, including payments of supplementary health insurance for all unemployed. A number of congregations said that at that time they had been denied this allowance from about 15 people to one of the average Slovene municipalities to 65, 75. Look, it's right that they're insured, not to misinterpret me, but the municipalities were paying for this, but they didn't get any additional funding. That is why the congregations were exhausted through such matters. We're exhausted. In part, they may have been in debt and, above all, they did not have a source of their own money so that they could invest in development. Because we all know how cohesion projects are – you need a certain amount of own resources to run for a project that would, of course, help improve the lives of the local community. I must say that one of the items in my municipality, the mortuary examinations and autopsyes that are now going back to the country – see, the reservation of these funds was about EUR 25 to 30 thousand, it is said, for some perhaps a little larger average municipality, which is not negligible. And now that these checks are moving to the country, about EUR 3 and a half million, it says here, is burdening all Slovene municipalities. If you look at how all of this is going to work out, you say to yourself, it's a step in the right direction. This is a step in the right direction for the country to take care of the weak. Children under the age of 18 who are educated and are not insured as family members because their parents do not care for them or do not meet the conditions for inclusion in compulsory insurance. This matter had to be resolved by the local community or by the congregation, and now it is going to the country. And it seems to me that this is a great burden, including debirocraticism, if I may say so, and it is right for the country to take care of these weak ones. It appears that the value of this unloading is estimated at EUR 19 million 485 thousand. As far as the development of self-government is concerned. With regard to the development of local self-government, it has certainly been possible sometimes, or in the past, to establish the provinces that will, I will say, as a seat, take care of the good, fair, even development of Slovenia. Again, I must say here – who blocked and opposed the establishment of the provinces in 2008? She was at the government at the time. She knows which party. And I can say, when I was able to learn about these things, that then Prime Minister Borut Pahor was the one who said, "I will not agree to the establishment of the provinces." Today, we have been saying for 10, 12 years that the landscapes would bring some better development, more evenly, development by health care, perhaps a more even network of primary health care. What is important here is that all citizens and all citizens have equal conditions for access to education, health services, pre-school education, to all of these sectors operating at the local level. In addition, I stress once again, and it is very important that local communities provide funds for investment in this interim period, which is even difficult. We all remember the lists of duties of individual municipalities, and if you go to the portals, you get out immediately, and it seems to me that it is necessary to understand here every congregation, that most of the duties went to the benefit of the development of infrastructure in the congregation. What I think is very important is that the aim of the state must be to enable citizens in all parts of Slovenia to do so – accessible, equivalent infrastructure, either transport, energy or municipal infrastructure. It seems to me that this law that we have today, and as I hear it, is supported by battle or less by all, that is exactly what it brings. But I want to touch what I think is very important. My colleague, Jože, has already said that Nova Slovenija will also want or propose to regulate the field of firefighters. Here, however, it is necessary to finally understand once that firefighters need to be provided with public fire services at the level of the municipalities and that this will be taken care of. I hope with your help as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković has the word and will be followed by Janja Slug. Hey, buddy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u40	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! To those who are or are, I will say, at least a little smell of what it means to run a congregation, or as mayor, a parishioner or perhaps a member of the municipal council – it doesn't matter now whether it's a big congregation or a small congregation, the problems are in fact similar in general – we understand today what this law means to the congregations or, if you want, the mayors. Only the payment to family assistants, the morgue's transparent service, the obligation to pay a contribution to compulsory health insurance for children under the age of 18 who are educated and who are not insured, for example, if I can say Municipality Kočevje, where I come from, will bring the circus EUR 370,000. It's not a little money. Local communities know, you know, I believe that you all know that money can be eloquent and even tripled in some way, and that's the way it is. Yesterday, at the Ombudsman's report on the complete picture in the country, I discussed and focused quite a bit on the situation of those municipalities that have larger or smaller Roma communities in their midst. I must say that – earlier, colleague Anja Bah Žibret discussed – in this subcommittee acting on her initiative, in fact, we are not all pro et contra, but we are all more or less united in some way, that there is a problem and that something needs to be changed in this area. The recommendations that the Ombudsman has been writing about the situation all year long about the Roma issue – but it is not just the Roma issue, but also the majority of the population, which as a result also has problems – and the proposal prepared by the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia – concerning the co-financing of the realization of the rights of the permanent Roma community and the provision of additional funds for the needs of the budget from the state budget to the municipalities where the majority of the Roma community resides – I think they are very important and that the proposal is effective in two ways. Which two directions? The first is that the congregation receives certain funds, which, of course, in addition to all the other obligations it has, it also does something for the Roma community. On the other hand, that perhaps those congregations that did not have congregational saints so far would have to have them, by some or by some rules, in order to determine that it is good and beneficial to have a municipal councilman representing the Romani community in the congregation. Your Honor, as I understand from all these discussions, I think that this will also happen at some point in time that this will be settled. For he has already laid down the Law on the Financing of the Congregations, that this should be done with a special decree, or that I do not know what has already been arranged, but this has never happened. It is true that municipalities that have higher costs in their midst. Yesterday I discussed the problems they face because of, I will say, such and other illegal practices, immigration, poor infrastructure, poor living conditions and so on. Some percentage of the appropriate consumption – whatever it will be, I do not know, as I see here, the Association of Slovene Municipalities has proposed 0.3% of total consumption – whatever it will be will be good. Whatever happens, it will be good, and I really welcome this, because I think this is also one of the key steps forward. Of course, I believe that the mayors and municipalities, the local communities, will be able to make good use of this and that these funds will have the real meaning they are meant for. Of course, it's illustrative here to imagine that now it's going to be some money for the Roma to build a house or not know what, but it's going to be one way or another. This will then be decided by the municipal councils, the mayors, and so is the case. I really welcome not only this proposal, I really welcome the whole law or the amendment of the law, and I believe that in future readings the situation will be crystallized and that we will find more common points and also good proposals. It is clear that we welcome this and that we will be on the same shore in the near future to call it that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. John the Servant has the word, and John the Baptist is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I am pleased that today we have this bill on the table, because, in fact, I and my Group of Members have been monitoring the efforts of the then Minister of Koprivnik and also the current Minister of Cortnik, a great effort to regulate the financing of the municipalities, to establish some normal dialogue with the municipalities, for some mutual communication, and then to deliver the results that we have on the table today. It seems particularly important to me to say that such laws are most effective for my concepts because they are not the subject of any arbitrary intervention by the Government or by the National Assembly into some arrangement of relations with the municipalities, but are the subject of what the congregations themselves have proposed. I also remember the efforts and all the meetings that have already taken place, I do not know, there in 2015 I think that when the strategy for the development of local self-government was being prepared at the time. Of course, Mr Lavtar, who is also present today, has always worked there. Together we will remember what these meetings looked like, how turbulent they were, how different congregation proposals were, of course, what is normal, how different congregations are, where they are in different situations, and also where they face various problems. And I am glad that at that time, in 2016, with this text of the strategy for the development of local self-government, we came up with a quality document that was produced in the same way as this law was now created. The strategy at the time was also the fruit of the public debate, which was attended by the congregations, their associations, the ministries, political parties, chambers, NGOs, and so on. That adoption of the strategy is then assessed as a major step forward. As has already been said, that strategy has identified many problems and many principles that should be followed in order to achieve a better position of the congregations. And if I quote just one section that is substantively related to what we have on our tables today. At that time, the strategy stated: "In the future, the current model of average calculation needs to be improved, taking into account data on real costs or data on standardised costs according to the type of tasks where possible. This intervention would also bring the system even closer to the principles of community financial autonomy. Solidarity between municipalities must not be based on a balance sheet and damage better-developed municipalities.” This strategy also mentions the need to pay particular attention to administrative costs and administrative obstacles at the level of the country to which the municipalities were already alerting, and also to the administrative obstacles imposed by local systems themselves, i.e. the municipalities themselves. In these activities, the Ministry of Public Administration and, of course, the Association of Municipalities are expected to have the primary task of removing administrative barriers, including in cooperation with the Ministry of Public Administration. In 2018 and 2019, of course, meetings with representatives of representative associations of municipalities were held, as usual, and the agreement on the average for 2019 in the first item provides that a specific working body will be established to examine possible legislative changes within six months in order to reduce the costs of municipalities resulting from their statutory tasks. What is on the table today is, of course, the result of efforts, first of all the ministries, and then of course these special working groups. As has been repeatedly exposed to today, a set of 25 laws have been made that need to be amended in order to actually achieve the objective set out, and this set is divided into three groups depending on whether they will be amended this year in this package or are already in preparation and coordination or will be prepared subsequently because they require some major systemic intervention into legislation or in these amendments. The first package of nine laws actually amends the Law on Social Security Benefits, the Law on the Regulation of Space, certain laws in the field of agricultural land policy, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, the Law on kindergartens, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, and, as already stated in the presentation of the position of our Group, amendments also to the Law on Fire and the Law on Protection against Fire. The direct financial consequences of this law are said to be estimated primarily at some good €31 million and €32 million, which can in fact result in much greater savings. The maximum savings, somewhere in the amount of 20 million, are expected for the transfer of the obligation to pay the contribution for compulsory health insurance from municipalities to the country for children under 18 years of age and for unemployed citizens and foreigners. Then there is the financing of the tasks of the family assistant, the burden will be borne by the state and approximately 8 million financial effects are expected here, and about 3 million on the basis of the transfer of funding from municipalities to the country for the tasks of the mortuary transparent service. It is also worth mentioning that Article 12, paragraph 7, of the Law on the Financing of Communities provides for the average to be determined by the National Assembly by law governing the implementation of the State budget. On those grounds, the ZIPRS shall set the average amount belonging to the municipalities for the years 2021 and 2022. For 2020, we raised the average of the municipalities to almost €624, as set out in the coalition contract. Last year's agreed 589.11 euros raised the average already in the second anti-korona package, which entered into force on 1 May this year. On this basis, the municipalities will, in fact, receive some 73 million euro in this year, more than was planned, and this, of course, also means raising grants for co-financing municipal investments to some 51 million euros. As it is said, ZIPRS increases the average by an additional 4 euros by 2021 and 2022. This means a higher average of €40 than before the government's performance, and for all the municipalities together that means about €80 million more, which is not enough money. Despite the crisis, the government has decided to do so, and it is our assessment that the increase in the average and the possibility of a higher municipal debt of about 25% will have a very important impact on the investments already made, so that they should not be stopped by chance because of the epidemic. With second-reading amendments, the coalition will propose the abolition of the transitional period in co-financing municipal investments so that 6 % co-financing by state grants is possible in the following year. The largest share of this co-financing belongs to municipalities with the largest development hazard index. Then there are the amendments, which we have already heard today, which are intended for municipalities with the Roma population and will allow for the co-financing of municipalities with a Roma councillor, which are about 20 per cent for them to own an additional €4.7 million. Moreover, the State would also provide funds to subsidise non-profit rents. In the SMC, we also proposed a change in the financing or co-financing of standardised fire insurance to further relieve municipal budgets for the funds that municipalities or voluntary fire companies have so far earmarked for insurance. This is the last with a very long list of demands or problems that have been identified since our government 2014-2018. At that time, on a field visit by the government in the Savina region, a meeting was held between the President of the Government and his entire cabinet with security and rescue forces, with professional firefighters, with volunteer firefighters and so on, the entire Savini region. At that meeting, several problems were identified by firefighters, firefighters, and, of course, by the congregations. In fact, we have solved everything that was identified at the time, and this is also the last requirement. If I can remember. First, we went to medical examinations for firefighters, then technical checks for vehicles carrying children, and then we resolved training for fire-fighting vehicles and so on. However, the last clue in this list comes with the amendments that have been prepared at our request by the competent ministry and will now be included in the second reading. These amendments will, however, be adopted by Articles 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 37, in which we will further propose to get rid of these funds. So far, these could only be designed to finance the fire-fighting and rescue equipment needed by the operational fire-fighting units and for the education and training of fire-extinguishers. The proposed amendment, however, relieves the municipal budget for the funds that municipalities or voluntary fire companies have so far earmarked for such insurance. This will enable the State to finance unsettled insurance, liability insurance and legal protection. If the local communities conclude standardised fire insurance for vehicles, equipment and facilities designated by the Ministry for fire safety, then the State shall co-finance these insurance by means of the budget. In this context, I should only recall that the funds of the fire fund financed by the fire fee are strictly earmarked and are intended, as I have already mentioned, in particular for the co-financing of equipment, training and operation of operational firefighting units of greater importance, for the co-financing of the operation and equipment of other firefighting units, research in the field of fire protection and for education and training for fire protection. Only the amount of the fire fee shall be determined by the Fire Tax Regulation adopted by the Government and the fire fund funds shall be divided by at least 70% of the funds collected monthly to carry out the fire protection tasks in local communities and by the operation of the voluntary firefighting organisations that carry out the public fire service. On the basis of the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, the remaining 30% of this fund shall be provided by the Fire Fund Management Committee. And if we go to the numbers. In 2019, the inflow from the fire tax amounted to just over €9 million, with local communities slightly over 6.3 million. Of the remaining funds, only around €350,000 was allocated to co-financing the purchase of fire vehicles and about 166 to cover the fire school and purchase, maintenance of equipment. It is, of course, important to note here, when we are talking about these 350 thousand euros, that one fully equipped fire truck with a fire tanker costs about 250 000 euros. And, of course, for such purchases, it is mostly necessary to add their own resources. That is why I am also stressing once again how important it is for the country to deplete voluntary firefighting societies and also local communities in this part. And if they were to enable insurance to be financed by fire taxes, they would also allow more financing to be given to the purchase of vehicles and all other fire extinguishers protection equipment. I don't know if we all know it, but voluntary fire companies have multiple types of insurance. We are talking about accidental insurance for operational firefighters, then we are talking about accident insurance for members of a firefighter's organization, then liability insurance, contribution to disability insurance, disability insurance, physical impairment or death as a result of injury in the performance of the activity, insurance for firehouses, fire, water spills, earthquake, which is classic, as we know, and the insurance of fire trucks. In fact, after the crisis, the cost growth index for these insurance companies increased by almost 20% after 2013, with an annual rate of around EUR 10 000 per fire organisation. But if we think of one story that also occurred in the media, one unfortunate story about firefighters who suffered injuries a few years ago when the fire was put out — we know what happened between the insurance company and them. When they wanted to apply the claim for compensation, it was rejected on the insurance company because they did not have an accident insurance, which is a real problem. That is why we are proposing these amendments, and that is why I appeal here to all Members to speak about the law in the second reading and to talk about these amendments so that they can all be joined together in the good of local communities and also in the interests of our firefighters. However, to conclude, I might also respond to the conclusion that the law is really very late on our tables, which, of course, I can agree with. However, it can also be said that the interim period was certainly not lost, that Minister Koritnik had spent all his time in dialogue with the municipalities, in dialogue with the associations of the municipalities, reached additional agreement with them, further harmonisation. As it is said, the amendments as a fruit, including as a result of these talks, will add additional solutions that will bring additional benefits to the congregations by assessing that the proposal of the Law itself has improved significantly in the meantime and brings added value. If I only read another response from one of the mayors and the President of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, when signing the average agreement for the years 2021 and 2022 this year, he said that dialogue during the current government is extremely good, especially with a minister who understands local self-government. And if I quote him: “Actually now it has become known that we are partners of the country, that we are not some opponent, that we are in the same boat”, the mayor said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič has the word, and he should prepare himself for Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u44	Good-bye! Thank you for your word. We have before us a law that is not opposed by any party in Parliament, there are some concerns, but then I will try to explain them further. The law had already been drafted in the previous government, and it was well said that a working group had been prepared to include representatives of the municipalities and the Ministry of Public Administration. From the beginning, it was found that the request of the municipalities was great, about 61 proposals were made on their part. What suggestions? It is a matter of proposals when the municipalities find in their operations that the State has entrusted them with specific tasks by law in all these years and, on the other hand, the annual allocation of funds is one great pain. When the negotiations for this average, which has already been mentioned several times today, we know how difficult it was, whether they had been able to agree on or failed to agree on a certain year, the representatives of the municipalities, associations and city and other congregations always tried to say that certain tasks were simple to the congregation and the money was not or were the classic tasks of the public authority. Of course, since there was never the will of certain tasks of the State that had been transferred to the local community to be taken back, that was the main reason for all the disagreements that had taken place. If we look at what tasks this is about, we can quickly see that it is true that paying the amount for the unemployed, the basic health insurance for the unemployed, the employment policy is state tasks. One of the solutions to this law is this. But if we go back any further, we'll figure out what the key to the problem is. I believe that the problem is a key issue, and two colleagues have already said that the failure to implement Article 138 of the Constitution is a key issue. We have congregations and other local communities that are provided for by this law, but we do not. If we had provinces, regions — numbers are not important, but we certainly see that we should have them. Now, if we go back at this time, how easy it would be if every Slovenian knew what region he was in, and now we take statistics and similar. If that's all we can take. If we take the aspect of spatial regulation, if we take the aspect of large-scale infrastructure planning, these are all things that always cause us problems, and we have come to this point when something has to be done. The former governments were also aware of this. It is said that the previous government has reached the point where it has succeeded in making this working group, so that it has succeeded in drawing 25 out of those 61 proposals and preparing a first set. So, very slowly, slowly. But since the approach was correct, it was also possible for the representative of the List of Marjan Šarca to say that this was a highly coordinated, appropriate law. Of course, how will it be different when you invite those concerned by marriage to a working group where you will do something good for them? So, the state is going to make money. Now it's just a question of how ambitious the previous government was. We do not need to talk about this now, because it is already behind us, and also the law before us on the table, we know that the ambition of the former government will increase further, as the speaker has already said before me, precisely as regards every firefighter in Slovenia, his health insurance and several other matters. The purpose of this law is also to eliminate certain anomalies that have been in this country. Like in the area of notariat. If the notary applied to the municipal authority, the environmental department and the location information area, he had to receive it free of charge, but if John Novak had requested it, he had to pay for it. So, this is now, this anomaly is now settled. It's just about regulating things that shouldn't practically happen, and through a bunch of regulations, we've managed to get them to this point to happen and they were in law. What is very important to all of us, who talk a lot about laws that save something, is that, see, the purpose of this law is to relieve the congregation financially and we have already had to cut into nine laws. If there are still amendments, and I believe they will, because this government is ambitious and aims to help the congregations, especially the municipalities, there will be more law. We immediately go to a number of laws, and this is very important when another law is being considered, which also aims to solve certain consequences. So there's nothing we can do in the National Assembly without interfering with a single set of laws. Therefore, we must be very careful that there is no anomaly, such as this notariat. It is only for the payment of taxes for fire and fire protection, or it is correctly said that one is insurance for persons, for voluntary and professional firefighters, and the other is part of co-financing in the field of the insurance of firehouses, which will be subject to the coalition amendment, which has to be broken down into two laws. So we can have this in front of us, and I think it's important. When this coalition agreement was signed, however, it could be said that this law is essentially an important but even greater leap in the sense that the municipalities are important and that this government supports the municipalities, but that the rapid regulation of the average for 2020 and the agreement on the averages for 2021 and 2022. This is a much bigger deal with the average, but despite some concerns, we know that if there is no development, if local communities do not invest in their development, then it can be a longer-term minus than that debt story that will happen, which will have to happen because of the universal stopover not only in Slovenia but also in Europe. The whole of Europe is completely on the same track as the financial structure. However, I can also say that I am pleased that the representative of the Left said that the financial resources that we would give to someone somewhere were, however, taxpayers' funds were the resources of the State which created them with capital. It was said that new funds should be sought, and the tax policy that I agree with was regulated. However, I cannot agree with any nationalisation in order to obtain funds from the State. This is a matter of revolutionary approaches, and this is not what I want in a democratic society. So the funds are always limited and will always be limited, and our job is to really try to understand what is the lowest level of this government in the country from the municipality and what is at the level of the country, such as the payment of mortuary transparent services, post-mortems and the like. It's a matter of state. And also as far as the funds for health insurance are concerned. It is also very important that in the new complement that will come, there is also the area of the Roma problem, because the new amendment is intended to provide resources to local communities with problems with Roma problems – we know that this is a major problem, and it is best to solve it in such a way that funds for municipal infrastructure are strictly allocated in these settlements. However, there are always some who wonder how this arrangement is, whether there is anything else we can do to make these settlements easier, whether it is only by means of the state, the congregation for the purpose of regulation, or whether it is by talking about social policy, or by stimulating social policy that we can help the people of this settlement themselves to one level, so that each, I will say, in their own field, in their own location, they will try to manage these settlements. So I think there are still open matters in this direction, and therefore I look forward to complementing everyone who will be in this law, of course, in the light of limited financial resources and also in the light of what is being done in the coming time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, get Marko Bandelli ready. Sir, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I know you're going to end up saying that it's about everything that's alive, just about the law, but of course it's necessary to put things in some context. We all know that this is, I say, the most difficult area of policy. Being mayor is the most demanding political function. And if you're a smart mayor and you push a suburban or a parishioner to save a casino, it's even a little more difficult. But let's stop first. State. In one thought Dr. Ihan, infectologist, essayist, writer, recently wrote: “The State is all of us.” In plural. We need to be aware of that. The state is a congregation, the state is what we're going here, and the country is also what we're going to defend in the market. That's because we're talking about the country. At the time that I was 2014 on Ludmila's birthday, on August 1st, I very soon began to tend to Minister Koprivnikar for the mandatory duties of the municipalities. One of the responsibilities of the great SMC at that time was to give me a matrix of all the mandatory tasks of the congregations from which they came and how we would finance it. And I gave up somewhere in the middle if you remember a little bit. He'd rather be riding with some helicopters in America, but he could smell money on ICT, like he was doing it, which would be his primary job. Even those who, either from a research sphere or in one way or another, worked in local communities in the congregations, when we become Members, Members of Parliament, often forget that much of what we accept here has somehow been called on the shoulders, the execution of local communities, the congregations. Then we're kind of gibbing here whether it's 70% or it's three-quarters of the legislation, but actually it is. A colleague from SMC opened only one topic, but if he was ugly and I wasn't, someone would think we're now adopting a law on the regulation of voluntary fire companies. There's an area that's got a whole bunch of stuff going on. If we go to history, we've had a reform of local self-government there in 1993, 1994. Comrade Tanko was not even in Parliament at the time, probably Comrade Bevk, if he was here, but I don't know who else. And then the great dilemma was how to reattach the congregations, but little thought was given to the cathedral congregations. At that time, there was even some danger of reaching up to 300 congregations, if you recall. And there was a double logic in that field. One of them had a logic: it's not right to crush too much. We still have congregations, such as Kočevje. Others, however, somehow had a logic that I also understand as a sociologist. You know, you had a congregation, but you had a congregation seat, and you had another little larger place that felt deprived, and they were: let's get down. Then we had a law written down like that, and the law gave us five thousand citizens, citizens, some basic infrastructure, and we got the number we have today. Those with whom I went to bilaterals, you know that it is usually when we come to another Parliament, that is one of the things I always tend to tend to the guests: how you have an organised local level of self-government, whether it is properly financed or not. Then we have another story here. We have a very scattered settlement in Slovenia. We also have a constitutional commitment, not just with us, in fact, most constitutional parliamentary democracies have a commitment, in the White landscape we would say that regardless of where you come from, from, we must ensure the same quality of life throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In practice, it doesn't work, we know. After a quarter of a century, we are more than clear that we need a reform of local self-government. We use this law, with which we all agree more or less, to kind of put out the fire. But this does not exclude that we need some reform of local self-government, which is being implemented if I limit myself to Europe alone, the Danes have gone through it, on the Austrian side of Koroška they are implementing and the Albanians could actually list it. When we look at our present system of things, it's kind of the way that the municipalities are kind of the same thing, which, of course, if we're looking at a little bit of practical life, we don't drink water. Some of the needs in Ribnica were already different than in Osilnica, as in Hodoš, as in Ljubljana, as in Maribor, and all of these reforms of local self-government that are taking place were based on this knowledge in practice, that the differences that need to be understood, considered and properly regulated. And on the other hand, when it was understood that we had achieved or achieved some kind of socio-space infrastructure development rate, it was necessary, as we say, to upgrade for a slightly higher tech quality of life, to aggregate on larger spatial units. Or, according to the local word, greater flags of territory together to understand and pedenati, in the language of the people. Well, of course we have problems with this scattered settlement and with a slight disregard for polycentric development at this rather basic infrastructure level. Remember the water supply in Pomure, and then when it gets a little caught up in the narcissism of small differences, we have problems. Then we can go watch, I don't know, in the human language, whether we have a controlled sewerage or not, but it's only arranged in a few municipalities in Slovenia. Well, here we could discuss whether we're ever more papal than the Pope. And of course, here's where we get all kinds of problems. You know, I'd love to say, there's a thousand euros in the municipal budget, there's a lot of money in the city halls, and there's a lot of money in the state budget, and there's a lot of money in the state budget. And I'm afraid that, after these stories, it's going to kind of break down a little bit more so that we can talk about some smaller amounts. No matter what government it is, we need a reform of local self-government for a quarter of a century. We also need to think about what is financed at municipal level, what is financed if you want to, at national level. My personal view is that what is an agreed quality of life, if you also want the constitutional category to be provided to all of us, should be financed at national level. If we go to municipal budgets in practice — what are the big expenses? Education, education, kindergartens, primary school, primary level of health care, including some other stories mentioned by colleagues. I personally think that we should finance this at national level. By this means, what is the problem of municipalities? The problem of municipalities is simply that they lack their own resources for development. And you can't go local government if you don't have a place to go. I mean, that's what the kids in the older group in the nursery understand. And I think we need this thought somehow. If I look at what neighbors did 15 kilometers away from Maribor, they went into reform of local self-government, they introduced, I think, four types of congregations, the principals vary out there by about 20 euros, and there's kind of a corner - a stick of encouragement: if you connect to larger congregations, you'll get a little more money. But, of course, we also need to consider mandatory tasks. One small congregation will receive fewer pennies at the first ball, but it will have fewer compulsory tasks at the expense of this, and will receive more money for each mandatory assignment, if I put it that way. I think we need to make some of these jumps. We have a flatilovka in the field legislation, all municipalities are glich, we have a defined city municipality, but we do not have a law on municipal municipalities. The only one who has got something is the Municipality of Ljubljana, which is by the way not the capital, is the capital, after the 10th Article of the Constitution. And if you remember, during that big SMC, it kind of changed, if I say domestically, in this way: Jankovic, if you don't weigh too much, you're going to get a little more money, but if you want to push into national politics, you're going to get a little less money. I have come from the Municipality of Maribor and I have been here for the sixth year that we are a third - class congregation. We are essentially running out of about 20 million each year in terms of the scope of the mandatory tasks. Now it's going to be smaller, but it's still, you know, and this way Ljubljana is getting bigger and bigger – because you need some counterpolo. [[…]] Here we touch, in classical culture, geography is called the centrality of places. The municipalities are essentially regional centres, and we do not have the proper funding of these regional centres. And regional centres, of course, have some additional obligations. If we go to see the history of this disunity and the formation of new congregations, you have stories when the congregations have been suing each other for a long time, such as Lithium, the congregation next to Lithium, where some money for roads came from the state level, and then we lose a decade of who received what, who didn't get what. If it gets a little political, one mayor is, I'll say, one-bedroom, the other is second class, we've had stories about whether or not any libraries will be co-financed and so on. In short, a whole bunch of things. We also have a vaguely defined possibility in marriage that some municipalities may be given special status. Probably, when this law was originally written, it was meant to mean that if this congregation is deprived in one way or another, but as far as I know, we have never actually triggered it, and also through the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government, we have actually redefined it. One thing my colleague Muskrič mentioned before me is, of course, that by the logic of everyday life, you collide with a series of laws. If we were not to break the laws of the field in the way that they were crushed in the National Assembly, this perplexity would probably be merely a complexity. Okay, well, sometimes it makes sense that it's separate, but let's say if you're looking at spatial legislation, you have a three plus one-- a quarter. You have to think about it, okay, but you could do it. Because of this, of course, there are also more sublegal acts, more decrees, more decisions, and then you get to what we often forget — that our congregations are also humanely fed to carry out something so complex. Then we come to what really hurts me: to look very much at the way the coalition looks – the opposition in the National Assembly, the attitude of the municipal level – the national level. In this light, I welcome this law, which goes a little bit in the right direction, that we see that it is something that must be involved, that must be spilt regardless of party card or non-party card. You know, I remember there in 2014, 2015, when the then mayor of Maribor and Miro Cerar gave out who didn't pick up the phone, who picked up the phone, who is now guilty that there is no meeting. And I still say, unfortunately this has not happened, the second or third meeting of the new government should be on our side, Trojan. In this way, even if we demonise Slovenia somehow, I have nothing against Ljubljana, I do not misinterpret me. After all, according to the complexity of the work, if we speak frankly, the salaries of the mayors and mayors, the sub-districts, the sub-regions are too low. And some of the key experts. You know, there in Maribor, when power changes, it always gets stuck, who they hire as a pianist, and there's a gross salary for a good jury. Please have a nice, serious pianist pay better than the president of the country who can't live with three grand. It seems to me that we will also have to focus on this subject and talk seriously about it. In these pandemic times, we like to say, "Let's go together." The times of crisis are also times when we need to think about a future, after all, we will still have a little locked-up at home. Also to think about how we will actually go into reforming local self-government, because probably – no matter how much we hang out here with each other, I hope that most of us want some quality development of Slovenia, some in fact a decent life. You know, it's often forgotten that life on the periphery is much more expensive in many ways. If you're going to the stable in Vinica, White Krajina, these spies, let the weekly purchase come in 15, 20% more than in Ljubljana. If you live somewhere in Haloza, say two parents, and they both have two kids who started going to the airport, and the bats aren't from the same end, there's almost no public passenger transport if you're driving, you see it in front of the cottage – what? Three, four cars. They need to be refueled, they need to be registered, and so on, you know. And it's no coincidence that there's a woodwork chain. Why did the Austrians go into the stories they went into, even though some of their big saws still work somewhere in the zeros or a little bit in the negative? Yes, for people to stay, for young people to stay. Or as Tony Verderber said in an interview recently, from there, a little higher than my birthplace near Kolpa. He said: "Well, some wire of these things, let us prepare something so that young people can live here and work here, and it will also be the best protection and there will be no need for an army at the border to push." These are essentially some things that we need to think about, because otherwise we will go in the direction of some post-transition countries — and now this is the end — where it is, in fact, whether you are in the capital or not. Not that I personally do not want to do this to many citizens and citizens, but it is also fundamentally unconstitutional. All the way to the end. Do you know how you see some society taking local self-government and social space development seriously? You can see by counting the different forms of spatial division. I went this once, years ago, maybe 20 years ago, and I stopped at 56 for Slovenia. Of course, hunting resources can't be exactly the same as archdiocese if I put it that way, but some regulated society has fewer of these divisions and they're somehow more logical. Do you know how many you have in France? - 200 years of those — how many? - 89, I think so-called historical departments. And that's what they agreed once, and that's what it stands for. And maybe there we could argue that that half of the village might have been more, let's say, because I'm looking at Mark, and I'm staring at your congregation, but not at some other congregation, but they were somehow mature enough not to say smart. I'd stop at that point. These are actually the challenges that await us, you know. And that's basically also a security issue. If you have an arranged settlement, you also have a security scheme in society and the country, with quality of life, by providing jobs. As we have already said, the Social Democrats will support this law. It pains me little personally that there was no more debate on the working body, because if I understand correctly, one small million amendments will now fly away, already coalition, probably from some of the parties who are looking for survival at the edge of the parliamentary threshold, including the populist ones. Which, I'm afraid, is going to bring us back from some casino that's gonna give us a headache again. But I do know that Marko is going to put it even better for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mark Bandelli has the word and will be followed by Matthew the Widow. Hey, buddy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you, Chairman. I'm not going as wide as I am, I'm going to limit myself to my profession as I am, I'm happy that the minister stayed here and listened. Minister, of course we are satisfied, we are absolutely pleased with this step. You know, as a former mayor of a small congregation, but we finally started to unload — what do we say? [[…]] - One, I'm not going to say the cost, but rather the unpleasant things that are right for us to burden them. But everything we've done so far, I'll tell you honestly, it's nothing. That's sand in your eyes. I'll tell you why. All together, I've looked over my thumb, I've got a table of all the municipalities, this table shows exactly, it's all there, it's all there, it's paid off to family assistants, it's a mortuary, it's health insurance, and it's all there. And I didn't miss much, which is then forward, because it's more likely to be mathematics, which is 1.3 – I wrote 1% on my eye. I didn't miss much. We've unloaded 1%. Everything is good, of course it is good, I agree with you and even the first step we have taken is good. But it must also be said that the averages have fallen, not in the previous government, but in the previous government of the time of Mir Cerar. At that time, the averages fell dramatically. And we know that this was one of those very powerful anomalies, and it's hard to get back to a level that was somehow acceptable to the congregations. I had a lot of trouble back then, you know. Every year we didn't know how to draw up the budget because we didn't know how much the average would be. Every year we fought or fought, and then we came to find out what that average would be, which would even give us the opportunity to develop in one congregation. I hope that this will not overwhelm me in time, for now you can — how would you say it? We charge the municipalities, but you know what's coming next year, after what we've got now. So I'm afraid it was just a temporary measure to see how and how it is. But look, I'll tell you this, Minister. When I was an operative, I was also an operative in the municipality, and I saw exactly where the biggest items were, where something could be done specifically for the municipalities, where they could give the municipalities the right momentum to start investing and to develop in certain sectors. Since the fixed costs of the municipalities adopted by the State and the governments are fixed, the former and former, which only imposed on the municipalities, and then demanded that the municipalities do not develop. And if there's no development, what happens? Youth goes because you don't have jobs, you don't have anything. So, one of them was extremely connected. Now I'm going to go over a few points quickly, because I have to leave some more time with the rest of us. But look, I'll tell you something. First point, payment difference to the economic price of kindergarten. I'll tell you exactly, you know why it's going. 23% we pay the congregation for everyone who goes to kindergarten. That should be the burden of the state. If the state took over this 23%, there would be a lot more money left in the municipalities. Let's think about it. Because everyone gets it, and I never understood why. Those with the highest income also receive 23% of the subsidy. We're happy, I think we're all happy to pay as little as possible, but that's not how it works. If we want to get to that level to correct these numbers a little bit towards Europe as such, I think we need to review it here. Otherwise, this 23% would be one big step if we went to the country. Do you know what the cost is for the congregations? Regression of transport. That seems to me like one of my colleagues mentioned something before, but he didn't tell me what it was. Regression of transport. We have adopted such laws that parents require you to take the child in front of the house and bring him home in front of the house! Where did this happen in history?Oh, my God! We walked five kilometers to get to school! I know we want all the commodes we need, and it's also right that they are, but this regressive transport is a huge expense for the congregations. Something has to be done here. Whether something is subsidized or not because the congregation is no longer able to do so! You know what I did when I became mayor? I went with the car, I went on tour with the car for a week, just like the bus was looking for the kids, and I optimized, I optimized myself. In one term, we have made 440 000 euros. But it was me, because I knew what it was. And that's the problem. Or offer help to optimize transportation so that municipalities can save something in this way. Because I'm sure all the mayors don't realize it and don't know how to do it, because it's perfectly normal that we're not all the same, but let's start thinking about it. This is one of the high costs for the congregations, and I think something should be done here. Then the normatives. You know, during the time of Minister Gabra, it was accepted to reduce and show Europe that it is less unemployment. I am sure of what happened at the time — to make these regulations, to get as many jobs as possible, and that — what would you say? – there would be fewer children in the classroom in order for kindergartens to have fewer children and everything that needs to be done. That's right, because we're all happy that we could have a baby, that one teacher could be with us, or someone could have six of us in there. But that's not working. We should go over this thing a little bit. It's 25 years old, you know. Something should be done here and given a chance. In this way, it is burdened, burdened with personnel, and this is important. I am not saying now that it is necessary to forgive people, far from this, but to get one system in which way to optimize. Because these are the right signals for the congregation and these are the right things to give the municipalities the chance to have some money left. Another matter is very important if you know what the burden is on the congregations. That's the difference in pay at the nursing home. You don't know what machinations, what machinations children I mean, parents become older, are old people, they don't look at them at home and they put them in a nursing home, they sign off even property and then they show the congregation that they don't have anything to pay the difference to the economic price because the pension is low because they can't pay what's necessary. [[…]] The community hides that difference, you know that, don't you?Oh, my God! Do you know how many of these cases there are? Do you know how many fights I've had with people?Oh, my God! And I knew exactly that two months earlier they had copied all their assets. Since it is stipulated by law that if a property is raised by the congregation to provide for an elderly person in the home and the property is sold and the difference is paid, it is legal. I made this simple, very simplistic statement. There's a terrible fraud here. There are such machinations in the background that you can't think. Something has to be done here. Unless, of course, the state, I don't know, the Ministry of Social Affairs takes on a little of this responsibility, because they're big numbers, I'll tell you. These are big numbers. I don't want to go that long. I have another problem. Here it sounds that you will, we will – I don't know, take this matter up in Parliament, say, we are all here together – be able to offer free kindergarten to another child. I'll give you one case. I've calculated it fast. Minister, let me listen so you can understand what I'm saying. Seriously, listen to me. Another child in kindergarten — do you know what that means? In our small congregation, where I was mayor, there are about 10 such children, 10 who are other children for whom kindergarten should be free, free, free. If I look at the table here [[shows the object]] The loads we have made here are foreseen, for the Municipality of Komen I speak, but this is proportional to all the municipalities, because it is proportionally made everywhere, is a larger or smaller congregation. We're talking 44,000 euros in savings. Okay, well, you'd say, great, we've achieved what it is. 10 children, other children, the economic price of kindergarten is EUR 424 in the Municipality of Sežana, together because we have a common kindergarten. A year for kindergarten is the cost of another child for the congregation of 50,000 euros. So we've done absolutely nothing! We are burdened with certain expenses of the congregation, I will give the example of Komna, 44 thousand, the other child, who will be free, will be 50 thousand. All right, if the state takes some weight for it, if you say so. Do you understand? I'm just giving the case, that's all. I am satisfied that the second free, even the third and all that it is, would also be free of charge. There's no one in the world, no kindergarten is compulsory. But what we offer, I think it's very good, and we could offer even more, here I am always for. But I gave only an example of giving an opportunity from one place and showing something that is not true, and from another place we will rekindle the congregations. That's all I wanted to show you. Let's get one compromise here, one thing, let's make a deal, because that's not how it works. Last thing, and then I'm done. Quick, half a minute. I told the minister several times, three or four times in recent months I spoke to them about the burden of congregations on professional firefighters. They fall under the Ministry of Defence, but professional firefighters pay the municipalities, and this is a very important matter. And you know, I tell you, it's a big burden for the congregations to do that. If the Ministry of Defence were to take this burden on themselves, the congregations would be burdened again. I've only given five simple things, but I could talk here for two hours, show you because I know what I was doing, where I was pressing, where I could put and make these things, because I know the case in zero. [[Incomprehensible]] That's all I wanted to tell you. I'll get it over with. Thank you very much, Minister, thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has Matthew the Widow, and Tomaž the Fox is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This discussion of my colleague was very interesting, but in certain segments I cannot agree with him, not even in that part of the segment when he speaks – I understand the municipalities that they have the costs of transporting to school, but I do not understand the work when he said that they have to pay for the transport of children from home to school. If I know correctly, the law says that for 4 kilometers away from school, free transportation is available and the congregation has to pay for it, or the congregation has to pay if the child has an irregular way, when the child has a dangerous way to go to school. That's why I just wanted to say that it's not going to be a mistake for parents or citizens to have all the free transportation to their schools, from door to school. I don't think that's true, but my colleague Marko Bandelli can fix me if I'm wrong. In my debate today, I must make it clear that I am firmly committed to the financial burden of the municipalities and local communities, like all my previous colleagues. The municipalities need to relieve all unnecessary costs arising from statutory administrative procedures and competences and, on the other hand, they need to be provided with adequate funding and resources to be able to manage local matters independently and in a high-quality manner in the area where they live and work. By transferring certain common powers and obligations from municipal to the state budget, we are in fact close to the desired target state, but we must be aware that without an increase in the average will not work. Such an approach will also achieve a more transparent and cost-effective use of public funds. Local authorities will no longer be able to make excuses to the country for its inefficiency and vice versa. However, I would like to point out at this point that we must not simply transfer municipal powers to the state level and consequently to the state budget. There is still a very difficult task ahead of us, which we are dealing with from time to time, namely the regionalisation of our country. It is intended to exempt the common tasks relevant to a particular region from the jurisdiction of the municipalities and the State and to transfer them to the regions. Also, the appropriate volume of public funds. Theoretically, this is all fine and fine, but in everyday life things tend to get complicated, especially at work, who will do a certain job, and, of course, most in money. In short, in reducing administrative obstacles and transferring powers, we need to be careful not to cause ourselves problems in the future, but I support the Government's proposal that the National Assembly adopt a law on the financial burden of municipalities. The adoption of this law will change nine sectoral laws and bring about a reduction in the costs and administrative burden for the municipality. On the other hand, the quality of the tasks relating to the local population and as local tasks will be ensured. I will not comment on any changes to the law in this area. However, I would like to point out the proposed amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which relates to the contribution to compulsory health insurance for family assistants, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and foreigners who have a residence permit and who are legally granted the right to pay compulsory insurance contributions. In the transfer of this obligation, I am particularly interested in who and how will verify the fulfilment of the conditions of foreigners to pay for this contribution. In studying the problem of community burden and finding optimal solutions, I have also actively cooperated with the Association of Fireworks of Slovenia. We have come to the conclusion that there are also reserves in this area. Thus, in the page of the modern second reading centre, we have prepared amendments to the Fire Protection Act and the Fire Protection Act. The proposed change in the financing or co-financing of standardised fire insurance will relieve the municipal budget for the funds that municipalities or voluntary fire companies have so far earmarked for such insurance. The proposal allows the local communities, after establishing standardised fire insurance for persons, equipment, vehicles and infrastructure, to be able to finance accidental insurance, liability insurance and legal protection from the fire fund as well. Where the local communities conclude standardised fire insurance for vehicles, equipment and facilities designated by the Ministry responsible for fire safety, the State shall also co-finance these insurancees by means of the budget. The funds of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia shall also include the means of a fire charge for such insurance. If insurance is also financed by fire charges, local communities and voluntary firefighters would be able to facilitate the purchase of new fire extinguishers or fire extinguishers, as they will not have to pay insurance, and all firefighters will also be able to be insured and will not depend on municipalities or on their own financial resources in cases where the municipalities have not provided them with insurance funds. I therefore propose that the funds from the fire fund should also be extended to firefighters' insurance. This will allow municipalities and voluntary firefighting organisations to allocate a share of the funds for insurance purposes as well. At the same time, we must not forget that the country still has a lot of room for manoeuvre when raising a fire tax. Therefore, before spending resources from an integrated or integrated budget, they should rather raise the fire fee paid by insurance companies. The fire tax could only be raised for the financial value of the insurance. In doing so, we would achieve a win-win situation where insurance companies would pay a little more for a fire tax and firefighters would pay the insurance companies back the money. The circle would be so complete and no one would be at a significant financial loss. This move would increase fire safety and the safety of firefighters themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec has the word, and he will be discussed by Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues, colleagues, everyone, have a nice greeting! First, perhaps, why did we decide in the SDS Group that we should have a first hearing. A number of predecessors have already indicated where everything would still need to be listened to in providing both mandatory and other tasks, and that certain powers they have received have not been paid in the past with adequate funding. I am therefore pleased that today, in the introduction, the Minister said that this law brings, for the first time, administrative burdens, secondly, a reduction in costs, and thirdly, an increase in revenues. But this law will achieve all three of these to a much greater extent only with those amendments that we have fortunately seen in the coalition, and I hope or hope that they are also coalitionly coordinated, and about them a little more further. Moreover, all those who talk a great deal about the administrative burden of the congregations would be urged to make their comments in view of the fact that this government has taken the de-de-barcation seriously. Many gathered here are those prepared by Mr Simič and his team, and they will also directly and directly spare some of the municipalities. Why did we want the first or general treatment in the SDS Group? That's why. Because, as we said, after we got the marriage into the parliamentary procedure, we saw that it was – let the former minister, sitting here, forgive me – a partially disabled marriage. It sounds good, the financial burden of the municipalities, but a concrete effect in this law, except in my opinion in two areas – I hope to say this because I am a saint in the municipal world already, I think, the fourth mandate and I know these matters very well – except in the family assistant’s field of death service is hardly added value. Even with regard to the location information that is changing, according to the Law on Administrative Fees, I do not think that the matter is still good, and I think that it will also be necessary to determine within the Council what the location information is intended for and what we have done if the location information, instead of paying the municipalities, is paid by the citizens. In short, I won't be too long. One difference is noted. While the so-called more left governments are involved in the financial burden of municipalities sometimes only to try to help the Ljubljana Municipality, which has even received special status and special law and special financial resources at the expense of other municipalities, and certain piarian matters, which, if you only remember how broad-minded and how widely one of the former ministers, Mr Koprivnikar, spoke them, and then we have seen in practice that there were many words, few acts, and even fewer actions, the right governments are doing little differently. We speak less, we put less burden on the congregations, and we give them more money on the other side. From this point of view, I must say that, given that I have always been one of those who, since the parliamentary group or party of the SDS in the opposition, has always been a slave in the Member State, and especially in the meetings itself, when adopting budgets, that – but I do not find the right bad expression – is unacceptable if you want the average to not agree if it is not already agreed with the representatives of the respective associations, I am pleased that this minister and this government have not gone through the associations of the municipalities, but have agreed with them for a higher average. This is the first great achievement. And the second great achievement is that, regardless of the economic, political and, unfortunately, the health and crisis that is present not only in Slovenia, but also in the world, we have achieved such an increase in averages for 2020, even in return – the Sevnica Municipality has received 600 000 euros more, covered its budget and declared some more investment – as well as more money for next year, at least 2021 and for 2022. Here I am just afraid of what my colleague Bandelli said earlier – hoping that these will be permanent measures. I also hope that if, God forbid, there ever comes a government that will break down the municipalities again, it will not lower the already agreed average in the coming years or that the basis for the 2023 talks is the amount that is also valid for 2022. I personally believe that a number of appropriate amendments will also take place during further consideration. I must say that, despite the fact that we are often divided into, I will say, ours, yours or a coalition, opposition or whatever else – but once again, I must say that some of the basic extensions prepared by the previous government, in this law, receive at least what we have already agreed coalitionly, namely, on co-financing, the exercise of the rights of the permanent Roma community, the promotion of the joint exercise of the duties of the municipal administration, the areas of municipal fees and the two matters that I like very much, one is about the field of firefighting, because we are talking too often, and not enough of what we do to move certain obligations here from the municipal budgets into the state budget – I am very glad that one thing that has been mentioned too many times today. This is the provision of funds to municipalities to co-finance investments in the coming period. We all know, we are ending the so-called EU perspective by 2020, we hope for the best possible perspective in the next seven-year period. And here, I say, we also have a third, intermediate, so-called covid of the European perspective, from which the Republic of Slovenia, also with the help of our successful negotiators, has been negotiating a fairly busy purchase – not only because we are approaching 2022, when you know that, above all, at local level, much more than at national level, I will say domestically, mixers are spinning when crossings, circles, such as well as different routes, in short as the existing mayors, who will still run, want to show as much – and they will have, in addition to the once-mentioned increase, the average in this different distribution of investment co-financing, a much greater possibility, also due to credit, which is mentioned in one of the proposals for amendments for further consideration, that this will all bring added value to the communities. True, we must be honest here that when we talk about co-financing investments at local level, we have, for the first time, too much desire, and on the other hand, sometimes the mayors of this investment work irrationally. When monuments are being built, instead of still regulating the necessary infrastructure. Just remember, at least those of you who were already in the National Assembly, how many words were there about the constitutional category of water to the Constitution. Yet, what problem do we still face? Not all Slovenians or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have the possibility of drinking, healthy water. That's what we're talking about. In short, I hope that, when we make these changes below – I hope that unanimously, not behind the coalition-opposition voting machines – we will give a different one, or I think that a much better co-financing option will not be used by the mayors for stupid projects on behalf of their egos, but they will use it for projects to help citizens and citizens. For, last but not least, the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities is intended for both citizens and citizens. Here, once again, there is great support for both the financial burdens of municipalities and for these debirocratic obstacles, which some governments have in the past exported to a lower, so-called local level. I hope that there will be another concrete amendment to the very meeting of the home work bodies and to the DZ meeting, and I hope that we will be able, for the first time, to find money, and for the second time, to find support for these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word, and Masha Kociper will discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Vice President. Since the introduction of merit medals, who has ever found that congregations have the problem of poor, inadequate financing of the congregations, of course, of those who have ever written a strategy, of that congregation in the past had nothing. They had nothing to do with these findings. For example, from strong strategies, from year to year, I think that until the start of 2011, the average government of Marjan Šarca did not reach a legal level, except that the municipalities were able to use more than the statutory level. No, it's the opposite. The past governments have started so low in these negotiations that, at the end, they have not yet reached the legal level. I can tell you about the example of my congregation – I was the director of the municipal administration because for a few years you believe that I knew the financial situation of the congregation relatively well – we calculated what happened during that period. It is precisely because the averages did not reach the legal level that the municipality lost one whole budget. One whole budget in ten years. Nine years, actually. This is more than 10 million if we do not count European funds yet. This has happened when we here listen to how governments in the past have worked for this and that. Of course, past governments have also looked down on this burden, the extra burden of the congregations. They watched calmly, struggled with their heads that it was probably not good, but it was happening all the time. All the time. And now here we hear what the added value of this law is. What is the added value of this law? Even earlier, even beating the chest right at the beginning of today’s debate: this government has created the best conditions for the functioning of the congregations. Chest-knocking. Of course, she raised the average, raised the average, thank God. Thank God if I turn into a citizen of a congregation now, of course I can say hello. But what? This is non-systematic and in a situation where we have around 4 billion and some budgetary deficits there and when all the fiscal rules have been weakened, this average could actually be even higher. What, though, would be known about such a deficit? What, though, would be known if another 50 or 100 million were raised? But what happens when it's gone? When that money's gone. Are we going to lower the average to the municipalities if there's no place to take it? If there's nowhere to go. And that, of course, can happen to us in the light of the situation we are in. As a result of listening to whether the government of Marjana Sarca in this area was ambitious or not ambitious, whether it added any added value or added no value, the fact is — and in spite of the fact that it wants to minimize the efforts of the previous government in this area — that the government of Marjana Sharca first bit that sour apple and even began to move something in the field of relief, the cost of burdening the municipalities, and what is more difficult. What's more difficult is to interfere with the area of changing the way the average is calculated. As the fact that the method of calculating the average is also not appropriate is true. If we have witnessed in the past every year this constant bartering, groaning, and who knows what else, then there is something wrong here. It doesn't work together. Why should the congregations actually be in a position to ask for some kind of charity for this average, and why, on the other hand, do we find ourselves in a position when the government that raised these averages is knocking on the chest, we are the ones who save lives at the municipal level, we are the ones who give anything to the needs of the congregations at all? You see, that's the problem with funding local government. This is the problem, in this dependence of the congregations on the will of each individual authority. This in some way forces the mayors into some loyalty of the current authority – of course, if you don't do well, if you don't do well, you won't get it. The added value of the Sharche government is precisely at the beginning of this dialogue and the opening up of these cardinal issues of community funding. It is true that when we speak of absolute amounts, this specific law does not bring any epochal solutions, but it does symbolically mean that we are able to begin to think in the opposite direction — not in the direction of the continuous burden of the congregations, but in the opposite direction — it is the added value of such a law. Is he ambitious enough, too ambitious? I will not explain to you now all the stories and accidents that have followed these solutions, which are now being offered here as amendments to this law, and that these amendments will now improve this law until I do not know what level. All these solutions, as I said at the introduction today, the minister practically had it on the table when he arrived at the Ministry of Public Administration. For a year, he was Secretary of State at the Ministry of Public Administration in the previous government, going from Pontius to Pilate for a year to find a solution to the financing of firefighters' insurance. It took a year. If anyone thinks the new minister's here now, it's like this. [[shows with gesture]] But do what we have to do — no, it's not like that. It's not like that. Go to the bikes of the state administration, you'll see what it's like. How's that? And such a law – because it was relative, I will say, simply align with the representative associations of the congregations, because we all knew what we wanted together. Go and coordinate it with the Inter-Resort. Go cross-resort it and you will see what it is like to make a single change, not an omnibus law that affects so many areas and so many different areas. But there is something. That the then opposition, the current ruling options, did not like those beginnings. They didn't like it. Right away, the first week practically, when we started the talks – I never wanted to say negotiations, discussions – about the amount of the average for 2019. The first week and we've done it relatively quickly. It is to the satisfaction of those we have participated in this, including the municipalities, that we have signed this agreement, I do not know how many years have passed since the last signing of the agreement. Even with the commitment, including the commitment to prepare, among other things, the basis for the financial unloading of the congregations, and some other commitments. But look what happened. When we photographed and flattered each other, how did we feel about the dialogue — we were really, truly honest about the dialogue, and in this dialogue we also went — what happened? The Slovenian Democratic Party controls the State Council and, here, the veto on the rebalancing precisely because of the average. It's the average. Then understand if you can. We agree, we sign, in the State Council, where local interests, of course, prevail, and veto. And that the measure would be full, on the one hand, this average was suddenly too low, so low that it was necessary to go with the veto, and on the other hand, the government of Marjana Sarca also experienced that the budget rebalance went to the Constitutional Court and that it was spending too much. It didn't go together. How's this going to go together? It says, on the one hand too little, on the other hand too much. You know, in this situation of created mistrust, created mistrust and anger – that you will not think, because, in fact, no one in the Government has accepted it with any great joy – in such circumstances we have been able to go into this dialogue, which is now the result of this law on the financial burden of the congregations. What is more important than this law, what is more important is that I am not now aware of the direction in which the dialogue is going, but what is the way in which the calculation of the appropriate consumption is calculated and of course the average, because – where is the original sin? The original sin of this constant discrepancy between the current government and the municipalities, when it comes to the level of the average, is in the law which provides that income from the previous year, i.e. with a two-year backlog, is taken as the basis. Even during the crisis, this was good because the crisis, although we were in a deep crisis, still caused the averages to rise abnormally for those conditions. I will not say abnormal in absolute amounts, because this has never happened before to rise abnormally, but they have risen. With the delay, of course, it struck that, at the time of the conjuncture, economic recovery and strengthening of public finances, the averages were either on the ground or below the legal level. These are the things we started opening. These are things. And these are significantly harder things than harmonising one such law on the financial burden of the congregations. Because there are just as many interests as there are congregations. That's it. And when we had our first attempt, some simulation, which is then between holidays – I think years, um, was it in 2019? – fled to the public, but not to the public, the mayors there in August, staged a hunt for a bear in the middle of the holidays, telling them what we're doing to them. So we just did a simulation of what would happen if we tried to divide the average a little bit more fairly in the current situation. We have all come to realize that this is an empty shot and that it is necessary to start building with the foundation, with agreement. All municipal associations agreed to this, followed by mayors, mayors throughout Slovenia, and we created these foundations, however, that the funding of municipalities should be arranged more fairly and more livelyly. And more of a lifetime. This now awaits a policy, the present, the future, to be settled, of course, that the law on the financial burden of the municipalities is a foundation where we knowingly have deliberately stopped there at about 30 million. To avoid thinking that we have not yet seen all the costs that should be removed from the congregation’s shoulders. There are many others that have not been mentioned here today, many others are recorded, but because of the interest in maintaining the sustainability of public finances we have made a border between 30 and 35 or even 40 million and left the matter behind for the next phase. Thus we saw this in concern for public finances, and in this concern for public finances we were then accused of not giving to the congregations. See, it is true that the average has now risen substantially for 2020, but it was already from the base, however, and this has to be recognised as the highest in the history of local self-government. Of course, they were not satisfied at the municipal level and I also said why this gap was constantly taking place, and there would still be a gap between the calculated costs, the current calculated costs and the calculated average on the basis of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Until this gap, until the law changes, until the formula itself for calculating the average changes, it will always come. Or without these interventions, it will be possible, in the future, with the dynamics of the public finances we have, and the ones we have waiting for us to raise the average, and we will all see that when the day comes, but the average, because the money will not, will simply be reduced. But that day I would also like to see these arrangements with the congregations. In my opinion, of course, I am pleased that this State Assembly in the Law on the Financial Discharge of the Communities, prepared by the Government of Marijan Sarca, sees a good document, a good basis for further both financial and administrative burdens of the municipalities, and many others.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Masha Kociper, Mr Jože Lenart is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you, Vice President. In probably the last part of this debate, which has been going on for several hours, it is difficult to say anything in particular new. Many debaters have debated before me, including former mayors, who know much more about how to optimize and relieve municipalities. There have also been some good suggestions on how this burden can be carried out in practice. By the way, my client colleague Bandelli asked me to stress that it is true that all students and students who live more than four miles [4.5 km] from home need to be transported from door to door, which, of course, means a huge cost to the congregations. But in these few minutes, I'm going to go to the general level. Much has been said about the history of community development, where the greatest problems are, as it were said, practical possibilities for improvement, and there have been some common conclusions, such as that that municipalities lack their own resources for development, that the state is overburdening them, and so on. This is now being resolved and we support this in the SAB party, every step in reducing administrative obstacles, some optimization of work, some clear discharge, what falls on the country and what falls on the municipalities, of course, is very positive. But we do have a basic problem. And now, because I don't know if anyone has said it like that, I'm going to make it very clear once again: we have absolutely too many congregations. We have absolutely too many congregations. At the beginning of our country, when, in view of our smallness and diversity, the then - born fathers of the Constitution wrote about the size of the individual congregation of tenants, you know that this was said to be 5,000 people. And if only this very generous standard had been followed at that time, we would have a good 100 congregations less than now and would have, say, 102 congregations. This seems to me something one small country such as Slovenia could do, and it would also mean that the critical mass of people needed to run these municipalities, to manage themselves, to have sufficient knowledge and to optimize financial resources. In my opinion, 100 congregations would be able to do so and savings would be possible. But no, because it has been with years in particular, and we all know this, the right option is very much in favour of each of the slightly more important customer rates getting their congregation, but now we are where we are. 212 congregations in which there are absolutely no conditions for some to carry out their own duties. And one of the debaters said, "It is essential," and of course, always in life is essential, "who is the mayor and how much of his work and effort and knowledge he invests in his work." This is essential everywhere, in every area of life. There can't be 212 great mayors. It can't be because it just doesn't work. So in my name, I ask this government, this is the right - hand government: Are you thinking of finally starting with a merger, an association of congregations, which would lead to a small number of congregations in the long run? In view of what I have said a little bit earlier, I think we are all aware of this – it is meant to optimize the number of municipalities, to reduce, to connect, first by linking their tasks and then, because I say, in some final far-reaching consequence, to reduce their number by half – only the right government can do. Because in the right-wing government, I repeat, most of these mayors are small, small, small municipalities who do not want to take their sandbox and who do not want to take their mayoral title and their secretary and their ficus. And there are huge costs for the country, and more than costs are caused by development deficits. Since it is impossible to run such a small country and develop local self - government in such a small country with 212 congregations. Once again, I ask for an answer whether this government plans to reduce the number of municipalities and how it will do so. And if not, why not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart is next, Mr Gregor Perič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! I will also point out that much effort has been made today by the Ministry of Public Administration with then Minister Rudi Medved at the head, from the first week forward with the takeover of the department in 2018. I was happy to listen to him today when he was reporting, and in this last debate he had recently had, because this is that debate, this is that professional, life-giving debate, and this is where it is necessary for governments to cooperate in this way when they hand over businesses. The Ministry of Public Administration has provided very good foundations for a constructive debate with all stakeholders covering municipalities, including the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, including the Ministry of Finance, which then assumes this financial burden. Today we have heard and probably all ourselves are aware that it is a very difficult matter, since it is already an intervention in nine laws at this stage, and further laws will need to be interfered with. This is also the reason why the proposal for the Law on the Financial Discharge of the Communities was not considered as early as 2019, when the legislative procedure was initiated, since two laws in the area of Zpiza were already being examined during this period. However, this will not sound like the praise of the previous government, which has laid the foundations, but I am also pleased and want to commend the current government, and the distinguished minister that on these foundations you continue and work from here forward and upgrade where you have come to know. That we're perfectly realistic about cooperation, if that's what I'm talking about. And I mean it very honestly and seriously. What is the aim of change? Above all, the financial burden is properly assigned to the institution for those tasks which are under the jurisdiction of the congregations and for those who are not essentially within the jurisdiction of the congregations, but have been carried out by the congregations in view of the acquisition of additional tasks over the years. But the deal was missing, who and how he's going to finance it. I think that this is the basis of a problem that has been unresolved for years and years and has now finally begun to resolve itself. In doing so, the following fact is important. The local community will be sovereign only when it no longer has to ask for what it should have to do to provide a service on behalf of the State in these cases. And, of course, these guarantees are not particularly relevant to these areas that the bill mentions today, but of course it does not mention all of them, I think there are still a lot of open matters, as my colleague Medved has also mentioned. One of the main sources of municipalities to finance these activities is NUSZ, which is a compensation for building land, taxes and so on, but mainly based on this. Here, however, we need to stress that we know that individual municipalities have very different decisions regarding the amount of this tax. Of course it's also for a reason they're different. On the other hand, they must now financially cover the obligation to pay a contribution to compulsory health insurance for those persons who are listed in detail in this Act, so to speak, they perform these tasks for family assistants, for mortical examinations. Let me also mention the co-financing of the protection of the elderly at home, which this proposal has not yet covered, and I see it as such that it should, even because of what I will say below. I hope it's covered. And there is still much to be done in this law or in this proper, proportionate, rational division between the congregation and the state. That's what this is about. So, on the one hand, it is the very disproportionate financial power of municipalities in relation to the sources of taxes and on the other hand the financial obligations that all citizens and citizens, or all citizens and citizens, must be provided proportionally regardless of which municipality they live in, in which part of Slovenia they live. I think that's the point of putting an end to things like this. Because if some congregations do not have enough resources, I also pointed out that this work should also be arranged, helping the elderly at home. As we know, some are now contributing to this and some even 80%. Here I think that the Constitution has already been violated to a certain extent if such matters are in there. Well, it's my view of it. The transfer of financial obligations to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities will, on the one hand, relieve municipalities and, on the other hand, ensure a proportionate coverage for all citizens and citizens anywhere in Slovenia. That must be the goal. However, we cannot go beyond the financial consequences of transferring obligations to ministries that are not yet provided by the bill itself, at least I don't think so. If not, you will also ensure this in the debate. The budget balance for 2020 has been adopted. Budget documents for 2021, 2022 are under consideration and these items are not noted in the documents, at least I have not seen them. But I think the reserves are the ones that are designed to be saved from this. Is there anything in particular different? In the government of Marjana Šarc, we planned financial revenues and expenditure carefully, in line with economic growth, we ensured balance of balances, we followed the fiscal rule, budget surplus, public debt repayment. All that we have sworn to in the adoption of the 2020 budget, and you have also warned us about this. Nevertheless, in 2018 and 2019, and certainly in the 2020 budget, we allocated resources to address the consequences of austerity measures after the 2008 crisis or after the established Zujf. Thus, in addition to pensions, social transfers, a minimum wage increase, the regression was also allocated to the average municipalities. Yeah, well, we didn't fix the backlogs all of a sudden, but gradually, given what the economy has created. So, we were also concerned that we had created more, and we gave everyone more in the period when economic growth was taking place. This government, however, has a slightly different approach. Despite the crisis, he's committed more to everyone. Unfortunately, not all of them, some of them have been deleted. But today it is not for us to go into detail in this area. Above all, she has dedicated herself to several congregations. We certainly respect this and wish that this is the path to decentralisation and better development of municipalities and regions, but we cannot help but note that the public debt of the Republic of Slovenia is increasing. From 2014 to 2019, the public debt of the Republic of Slovenia ranged between 31 and 32 billion. In 2019 it fell for the first time so realistically by half a billion, with good economic growth and that we eliminated certain imbalances, but not entirely. Today, however, this debt rises substantially. According to the budget documents, the public debt will increase to 42 billion or 11 billion in three years, this year, next year and then 2022, which means a one-year budget for the Republic of Slovenia. We must keep this in mind when this government is so fond of boasting about its generosity and giving more to all. This has been highly commended by ruling parties today, but only one part, and unfortunately this other part is always, probably even deliberately, is not said in public. Of course, I do not think that the activities of the Law on the Financial Disposal of the Communities will bring the country to its knees, far from that. Of course, the financial problems of the country are completely different. This is how we support and support the bill itself, and I want us to look for more rationalisations, especially on the basis of de-de-irocraticisation of the governance of the country, where this government has very large plans. I hope that in the direction of financial decommissioning, not reallocation to other spheres of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič has the following word, Mr Matjaž German is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, representatives of the Ministry, nice greeting! Today, I think, we have heard a great deal about the purpose of the law before us, namely, the financial burden of the congregations. This can be achieved in a number of ways, even though we have heard the previous Minister that this is not so easy – to achieve a financial burden. I am glad to have taken some step forward, but in this step it will take a lot of energy, a lot of work to invest. When I listen to my present colleagues in the opposition – there has been a new government for eight months, and I have not heard a single austerity measure, one proposal on the part of the opposition. I understand that there is a whole Europe or the whole world in trouble and we are aware that we have to help all the actors here, including local self-government, especially the economy, to start all these cycles so that the economic operators do not die, in particular, because then it will be difficult to talk about the inflows and revenues to the budgets we have, both state and municipal. I have some experience with local self-government myself, and I can say that this step taken by the Government is very brave, but I expect from the local level that steps will also follow at the level of local self-government. Because as far as I know, there's also a lot of feuds on the local level, and that's exactly what I'm going to call them, the feuds that you can't touch, because if you touch them, and if you redirect the funds that the budget has at your disposal to somewhere else, there's an automatic political war going on, some political conflict. So here, this is primarily a challenge for each individual local community to rationally allocate the resources it has at its disposal. Whoever you ask, every mayor will say that these resources are never enough because there's always more to it than the capacity we have. My view here is focused primarily on the Government and on ministries that have an impact on thinking towards allowing municipalities to make available some infrastructure, legal or other, where municipalities can then work on their own resources. This is my expectation – that the municipalities will make their own effort and take advantage of existing and also new ones, to better collect those taxes and fees that are within their competence, to optimize the lists that allow these taxes to be collected better, I don't know, a tourist tax, a compensation for the use of building land and the like, because these reserves are never used well enough. What I would like to stress in this half minute that I have left is simply that in the future – at least in the new perspective, not in this one, but in the one that will follow – these cohesion funds will be less available. That is why it is a very big challenge for all of us to develop the development function of the congregations in the future. And if we make good use of the time remaining for us, then the congregations will also be those who will drive development and progress, and otherwise we will all have a significant problem in providing and financing municipal services together.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Now, according to Mr Boris Doblekar's turnouts, the following is to be prepared by Mrs Alenka Jeraj and then as the last discusser of mags. Branko Grimes. Here you go, Mr. Doblekar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members! A nice greeting, of course, to the Minister of Public Administration and the Secretary of State! Today we have just such an interesting subject that we could talk about for hours and hours or days and days. I am very happy that finally before us the material that only builds up what we have already done for the congregations has raised the averages to cover those vital marriage obligations that the congregations have. I must say, I am very glad that we have quite a set of suggestions for unloading the congregations before us. From the debate itself and from previous coordination, it has already been evident that we are also facing several amendments, a few changes, some interesting things that will come later or will be taken into account. Citizens and citizens, which we are Members of ourselves, must be aware that the congregation is our self-reliant community, our home where we live, and it is right that we have arranged things in the municipalities, from infrastructure, education to all other things, which, of course, the municipalities provide difficult with these budgets. There has also been a lot of talk on this subject that we should have fixed these things long ago and unfortunately not. Fortunately, this government is more favourable to the municipalities, to the financing of the municipalities, that is to say, citizens and citizens, whether we have been or that this government and then Parliament have been inclined to go a pretty good percentage upward, given that this has not been the case so far. Of course, there are a number of things that the congregations promise by means of this law that will come to them, and there will be more money then to invest in the congregations. We also know that the municipalities apply for different calls and, if they do not have the funds provided in the budget, of course, they cannot apply for such calls, nor can they expect financial assistance. It is not only here that we will financially strengthen municipal budgets, but it is also essential that we address the various administrative obstacles, which is also the priority of this government. This is also an essential emphasis. These administrative obstacles are too much and there will be a lot more to be done here, but there is also a lot to be done, and it will also come before us Members soon to make a decision on this. This law interferes with or amends nine sectoral laws, and I am particularly pleased that certain matters covered by the municipality so far will be borne by the State, in particular by the provision of firefighters and adult education, various insurance and, of course, compensation for the payment of contributions and so on. Now I'm not going to touch each topic individually. I believe that, in reply or in an explanation, the Minister will explain certain things that have already been exposed, and I will certainly get satisfactory answers given that the Minister and the Ministry have been very deeply involved in this matter and that things are very well known. I believe that with further amendments we will come to some final form of law, which of course is also welcomed by the local or all Slovene municipalities, as well as by the Community of Slovene municipalities and all other groups. That's where I'd end up. And of course, I very much welcome these changes, and I hope that on these foundations, which are finally laid, we will build and help the municipalities, the municipal budgets of the country, even in future and eventually we will also get to what we all want, which we have stressed more or less – that the country will actually cover all the costs that the municipalities have to ensure that all laws are enforced. It's a start, it's a positive atmosphere, and I believe that we're just going to build on it, and that in the end, we're just going to come clean in a little while, as it's called. Thanks again for everything you've worked so hard and prepared, and let's hope that we'll all be able to confirm it together and move on this path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The next debate should be Mrs Alenka Jeraj, but she is not in the Chamber, nor is she in the Hall of Magi. Branka Grims, so we have exhausted the list of reported debaters and are moving on to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he will be given the floor by the representative of the Government, Mr Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you also to all the debaters for their comments. I will try to define a few of them, even more at the general level, as the debate was, I would say, significantly more comprehensive than the area governed by this law, but in any case, it was touching these issues in any way. First of all, honourable Mrs Bah Žibert also mentioned the abolition of mail, post offices, postal services, bank offices, ATMs – we at the Ministry of Public Administration, as far as we can, assist the mayors, i.e. municipalities, in establishing communication with the providers, in particular with the Banks Association in the event of the abolition of one of the ATMs in Kozianski. So here, as far as we can, we are in constant, regular contact with them, and we are also trying to help open conversations with other departments. As regards Mr Cigler's comments on taxation in the municipalities of what is their property. From the point of view of optimisation of management, I should say that at the Ministry of Public Administration, we are together with partners just before the final report of the targeted research project Fiscal capacity of municipalities in Slovenia and I have just checked the intermediate results yesterday, showing that municipalities are quite successful in generating all kinds of tax and tax revenues and that performance is not related to the size of the municipality or to the number of people or to the type of urban versus the non-urban municipality, but differs from source to source. Some municipalities collect compensation for the use of building land at one level, others at the other, some rents, others not in different shares. This analysis, we expect the final report within a few months, will be a good step forward. As I announced in the opening presentation, this law is a stone in the mosaic of optimising the functioning and functioning of the municipalities or assisting the mayors in regulating this area. As regards the comment by colleague Baković on the level of the appropriate consumption of municipalities for those who have a Roma population. He mentioned that in a draft working speech, there were 0.3%. In these, I would say, somehow agreed proposals or texts, so far within the framework of the coalition, we have gone to more than 3.5% of the eligible consumption. The question that remains open is, to which municipalities or to those who have registered a Roma settlement, to those who have a Roma councillor or a Roma commission, this is something that will still need to be addressed in the legislative process, but we certainly do not want to be administrative, but we want to help the Roma population or municipalities with the Roma population. Mr Bandelli's comment on this law was mentioned, which represents a 1 per cent load. Let me stress that the average has also increased, as I mentioned earlier, and the municipalities have been quite successful in generating revenue, so that I believe that 1% in the whole light means much more to the municipalities. In the final stage, this also shows the response of representative associations and individual mayors, because these proposals were created and formed together with them, and they clearly assess this as appropriate, appropriate and have no comments on this. I will point out once again that, of course, the budget adopted is not explicitly budgeted, there is no heading for this law because this law has not yet existed and there is no legal basis, but there is a good 30 million in the budget reserve and then another 30 million for these equally designed changes, so there is no concern here. [[Incomprehensible]] So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. I ask if there is still interest, given that we still have time to discuss. I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 27 October, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting's timing. So I interrupt this agenda item and we move on to 10. At the top of the agenda, this is a first-hand proposal for a law on Slovenian Democratic Reserves, a scheme for co-financing of deceased and invalidity insurance. The draft law was tabled by a group of 16 Members and Members with a first-signed Matjaz Han. With regard to this bill, a group of 38 Members and Members with their first signed Matjaž Han requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In 1996, an agreement was adopted with which we reduced the contribution of employers to pension and disability insurance for half. Since then, we have a constant deficit in Zpiz, which is being judged somewhere around a billion, how a year is a little less, how a year is a little more, which is now covered by the budget. Projections based on demographic indicators predict that the deficit in the cash register will be close to 3 billion in 20 years. Politics has seen this problem in recent years, but something not great has been done, and there have been some extensions. If I just mention them. Article 427 of the ZPIZ-2 provides that the demographic fund must be formed as a result of demographic indicators, until 2015. It is said that we have been late for at least five years in this area. Finally, the law on SDH defines that KAD must be transformed into a demographic fund. These are both legislative changes that were adopted during the second Janša government. In our marriage proposal, we follow these assurances and we want to provide our law with financial resources that will reduce this deficit in the Zpiz cash register. If I touch the resources that we have identified to fill this demographic fund. The so-called basic demographic investment is a constant source. If I simplify it a little bit, it is eight, nine Slovenian companies, successful Slovenian blue chips, whose majority owner is a country or shares. We do not transfer them to this fund, but we transfer their funds to this fund, that is to say 100% of the dividends that these companies create. We have also identified additional resources, like the law of Veleva, where we anticipate 2% of the collected excise duties and the shares of the State's capital investments. For all these funds we anticipate 20 years of accumulation, accumulation and, of course, at this time the nobility of these funds. The demographic fund will thus become a portfolio manager not only in Slovenia, but also in the global markets, with some dispersion of investments. Following simulations that we have prepared on the basis of very modest assumptions of a 2.5% return, we could thus cover about 15% of the deficit in the Zpiz cash register after 20 years of accumulation. These are very conservative forecasts, and some realistic forecasts suggest that funds of 25% of this deficit could be raised at this time. What I think it is right to say here is that in these core demographic investments of these most successful Slovenian companies whose dividends are supposed to be filled by this fund, we also provide some protectors, that is to say that they cannot be sold off just like that, or if any government wants to, because 20 years is a long time, these investments must be sold out, it must follow the procedure in the National Assembly. This is in order not to finally define clear political responsibility, which has usually been a rather vague case in the past. What I think – that this law would require more than 46 votes, as the Prime Minister of the Government said on Monday, because, last but not least, it is an intergenerational agreement, not so much for today's pensioner, but for those who will enjoy the pension after 20 years, and with some consensus the legislation adopted in this area would also give younger generations some assurance that they can start believing that they too will ever receive pensions. What I would also mention is that such a fund must be transparent, so we have foreseen the procedures for annual reports in the Economic and Social Council, in the National Assembly. Let me mention before I finish, just the composition of the supervisory board. The nine-member Supervisory Board, four government representatives, one employer representative, one employee representative, a representative of the elderly, pensioners and a youth representative and one representative from the KNJF, is envisaged, as is said by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. Such a composition ensures that no one will have a dominant influence in this arrangement. But I believe you've all read the law and I'm looking forward to the debate ahead. I would like it to be focused on improving this and on proposals, but not on history, as is often the case in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to introduce the opinion Mag. Peter Ješovnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u68	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia underlines its commitment to establishing a demographic fund, the purpose of which must be to co-finance the ever-increasing expenditure of the state budget in the pension fund, which has been a fact for some time now. In view of negative demographic projections, the demographic fund must address demographic issues comprehensively, i.e. the care of young people, older people and the payment of decent pensions today and in the future. While the Government agrees with the well-known assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law by the applicants, the applicants point out that these reasons and the legal basis for the establishment of the demographic fund have existed since 2013. The Government notes from the findings already based on the very introductory explanation of the bill's proposal that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, as it jeopardises the current and future state of public finances for the following reasons. First time. The aim of the proposal for a law establishing a global portfolio investor is contrary to the main solution of the bill, this is the concentration of the fund's investments only in Krk, Blue Insurance and Lottery Slovenia, because they would represent more than half the value of the fund's investments, so I would quote: “With exposure to only one country or several companies or industries, he has put his assets at risk, thereby jeopardising his mission and with this law certain objectives.” Another time. The assessment of the financial implications of the draft law on the State budget and other public financial resources is weak and flat-rate, since it does not include in the proposal any 30 % of the collected concessions for the exploitation of water from water resources, nor does it take into account that these are the earmarked funds of the Water Fund, nor does it follow the general basis of the integrity of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the case of the share of excise duties to be allocated annually to the Fund. Third time. In support of the proposal, the applicants did not know whether they wanted to define the value of capital investment transfers between the Republic of Slovenia and the Fund and thus the basic value of the initial assets of the Fund, on which they could base their assessments of the fund's contributions to the pension fund after the accumulation period. Fourth time. Applicants as contributions to the pension fund at the time of co-financing shall specify two types of share of the assets, 70 % of the dividends and interest and 4 % of the value of the investment of the fund, but shall not determine the amount to be charged to the Zpiz, and shall even record in the explanatory memorandum that they shall be paid into the pension box both of them. Fifth. During the co-financing period, the fund would either have paid or significantly less than it would have received from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia until then, or would have paid more than it would have received from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but would therefore at the same time have significantly lower investment value or the value of its investments would have been exhausted by the end of the co-financing period of the pension treasury. Six. In the medium term, the draft law would have implications for the additional financing of the pension fund from the budget, as the draft law provided for the first payment to the pension fund only in 2042. With the current legislation in force in recent years, KAD has paid annual amounts of EUR 50 million for the purpose of covering the pension allowance deficit, to which Zpiz would no longer be eligible in the period from 2022 to 2042. Let me get this straight. As a result, the Government cannot even be defined by the individual articles of the bill. Finally, I owe a further apology because in the written opinion of the Government we gave the wrong information about the shares in capital investments when we talked about the portfolio of the French Demographic Fund. The proportion is less than 1% and not below 0%, which of course makes no sense. This is also clear from the list of investments in footnote 3. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Aljaž Kovacič is given the floor to present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Marjan Šarca Group will support SD's proposal for a law on Slovenian demographic reserves, a fund for co-financing of pension and disability insurance at this point, because we are very concerned about negative demographic trends in Slovenia and we want to find an effective solution for our age as well as for all future generations. It is alarming that in Slovenia every fourth Slovenian is over 65 years old. In 2013, we covered 66% of our pensions with contributions; in 2019, the situation improved slightly, to over 80%; and today, projections show that in 2060 we should cover less than 60% of our pensions, which is insufficient. The country is already additionally covering the deficit of Zpiz in the amount of EUR 1 billion. In fact, this deficit was 1.3 billion euros in the worst case scenario. In the Marjan Šarc list, we support the strengthening of the role of KAD in co-financing compulsory pension insurance in a way that increases its assets from the capital investment and assets raised from privatisation, provides permanent and additional resources, terminates its payments from the fund during the accumulation period and starts the period of co-financing of the deficit of Zpiz. We agree with the SD proposal in particular in this part that in the event of the establishment of the fund it is not a transfer of ownership, as on the other hand it provides for government law, since the owner must still remain the Republic of Slovenia. The SDH will act as the central manager of state assets and the Fund will be eligible for their integrated returns, which it will try to reinvest as effectively and effectively as possible. Some economists point out that if the fund were to be the owner of the investment, it would make it easier for it to have assets and would be a more privatisation option. They also warn that this would pose a greater risk for the Republic of Slovenia to increase bonds in order to reduce the rating for Slovenia, they would also have higher funding costs, poor access to financial markets, reduce Slovenia's competitiveness and also reduce productivity levels, and reduce GDP. Despite our support, however, we have some dilemma with regard to this proposal, which we are considering today, with regard to the way in which it is managed, the source of funding, the time of accumulation, the impact of policy and, ultimately, also with regard to the actual effectiveness of this fund. It is not negligible that the State must already pay a large deficit in the pension fund, that the country will have a loss of income due to the transfer of investment management to the fund, that the fund will have additional costs for its entire management structure, and that it will also be under-performing with an adequate return on funds. Therefore, in the Marjana Sharca list, we believe that other complementary solutions will need to be considered in order to avoid the collapse of the pension system, which will provide additional resources to co-finance the pension fund in addition to the fund. It might also be useful to consider a possible additional resource for the accumulation of assets in the form of part of the profits generated by Banka Slovenije. The solution will also be actively sought in order to regulate the long-term care system, increase productivity in Slovenia, focus on high-tech products and services, increase the proportion of active older people. We must be aware, however, that the pension system is important for every society and for all generations, so it is essential to start strengthening solidarity among generations and to find a way for young people to start believing that they will not only pay into the system, but, after working hours, they will have decent pensions for a secure age. I've already said in the beginning that we will support the proposal in the List of Marjan Sarcas.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! As we have heard from the introductory supplementary presentation by colleague Sonibo Knezak, the problem stems from a time when I have not been 10 years old. And there are a lot of us today in this hall that we can say the same. I dare even assume that in this Chamber we are the majority of those who have not had much influence in their lives on how the pension system was designed or on how the ownership, management and sale of state-owned enterprises were decided. There are two issues that some are persistently trying to link into one, and we all have to live with the current situation, which is the result of a long chain of decisions that most of us have had no impact on. The pension system already creates a deficit today, we must cover it from the budget and we all know that we will have to support it further today if the system is to keep the intergenerational promise that every active generation will take care of the elderly, because it can count on the next to do the same. If we do not do so, we threaten the pensions of all who hope to receive pensions in 20 years or more. The state property, from which too many people are promised huge returns to save the system, is now, in 2020, as it is. For my generation and for all those who hope to receive pensions in 20 years, there are many current pensioners among them, or they will then have to finance the system with contributions, it is totally irrelevant who is to blame or to be responsible for the situation as it is. But the fact is that such decisions have a remarkable long-term impact, so we must not allow them to be taken without thorough reflection, in-depth debate and thinking about the future. That is why it is the first thing we call on in the Group of Social Democrats to talk about content and the future. A minus in the pension register cannot be eliminated only by the establishment of a demographic fund. The causes of the deficit are complex and its resolution will have to be made up of several solutions. With one law, we cannot solve everything at the same time – pension contributions, correct old injustices, promote fertility, invest further in the economy and at the same time redecorate the relationship between the management of state-owned enterprises. If you're hunting two rabbits, you're both gonna get away with the real saying of American seniors. However, the establishment of a demographic fund is an important part of the solution if we are to ensure that the system holds back at that critical time, from 2040 to 2070. Several important laws have drawn on the reasons and direction of rescue, a demographic fund in the form of provisions for a critical period, which is allocated additional sources of funding to support the system and secure pensions in the future. Today, there are also acquaintances of this content who have had the opportunity to decide on some important issues. They well know that everyone in these processes has made every effort to finally get the demographic fund. As they have been involved in the decision-making process in one way or another, they well know that all the attempts to set up so far have been hampered by attempts to change the management of state-owned enterprises. We have tried to avoid these traps on the basis of the experience of several governments with our proposal. We put it on the table because we can't waste any more time. If the Government also has its own proposal and concept, it is appropriate to examine, carefully compare and deal with each other in accordance with all the procedures prescribed. The second trap is the expectations we have. If we think that by establishing a demographic fund, we can avoid budgetary co-financing of pensions or that it is fair to close the mail and privatise the infrastructure, sell non-profit pension apartments in order to receive a 1% pension bonus each year, is it right that the demographic fund should be filled only with the exhaustion and sale of state-owned enterprises without being willing to give even the smallest amount of the budget or the tax on the fund? If we are to achieve a goal, we will have to act less selfishly and do something today so that we can count on tomorrow. Therefore, Your Honor, some of the facts that need to be taken into account in the decision-making process. First of all. The pension system creates a deficit mainly because pension contributions to employers were reduced in 1996. As a result of these decisions, it was also decided to establish the PIC Capital Fund, which later became the Capital Company. The principle of transferring 10% of income from incomes and sales of state property for the purpose of co-financing pensions was also legislated. In fact, this has already established a kind of incomplete demographic fund, which, unfortunately, is now being used up for current consumption, even though this means only 1% of the current amount, which we devote annually to pensions. The key question is and remains whether and how we are prepared to face the problem. Are we prepared to give up anything and to commit ourselves to overcome obstacles and achieve a goal? It's the other way around. So far, two banking rehabilitations and various management methods have survived the state assets of 2020 – political fracturing in the 1990s and early 1990s, careful attempts to establish independent responsible managers under Borut Pahor's government, the law of a SDH exploiter during the second government of Janez Janša, and the last attempts of two governments to turn it into a contractual professional manager who manages its assets for them. Three waves of privatisation survived – the first certificate, the second tycoon and the third imprisoned criminally. Its share acts as a Capital Society, an incomplete demographic fund, which is exhausted for current consumption without a real impact on the amount of pensions. The total value of all these assets does not reach even EUR 10 billion. Most of this value is locked in companies of strategic importance. This is a key infrastructure and public service providers, from which surplus profits should not be expected and the state must also assume ownership responsibility for them. Thus, only a small part of the state’s property is such that it provides stable profits and cashable benefits that could be used to co-finance that real problem — a minus in the pension treasury, which will be three times higher in 20 years than today. The entire long story of the management of state property over the past 20 years can be summarized. In its efforts to remove political influence, political responsibility for key decisions has been lost and at least a measure of expertise, independence and transparency has been established. This needs to be maintained and upgraded, if necessary, but not completely put on top of everything. It's like a third. In the context of the requirements of the already adopted rules adopted under several governments and with the votes of many Members and Members and Members of the Groups, and taking into account the experience of several attempts to legalise this issue, we have drawn up a proposal for a law that takes into account all the rules and standards adopted so far and implements its fundamental mission to provide the pension system with an additional source of funding in demographically the most critical years. The issue of governance of state-owned enterprises has been tried to distinguish as far as possible from the issues that are important to the demographic fund. These are resources, independence, transparency, profitability, security, the spread of investments and democratic, transparent and professional governance and supervision. The scenarios and simulations that have been made, i am referring to the 2014 analysis of Majcna and Sambt as well as to several documents from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, show that in 30 years the deficit of Zpiza will already exceed 2 billion and a half euros. Any correction of the injustices will further increase this amount. As a result of pressure after correction of injustices, we can almost certainly point out that these amounts in the form of a future budget burden will continue to increase. The so-called sustainable scenario envisaged by Majcen and Sambt, on which some proposals for the creation of the demographic fund have been drawn, is in practice not feasible. For it means a huge interference with rights and an excessive extension of working time. Since the problem is significantly greater in 20 years than it is now when we still have some room for action, it is therefore essential and the only responsibility to resolve this part of the problem together. The solidarity pension system, under which the active generation today pays for the retired generation on the basis of the commitment to be done for it by the next generation, is today due to the longevity and ageing of society under ever-increasing pressure. This applies not only to Slovenia but to all developed societies that have to look for different solutions to cover the deficits of their pension systems. For no pension system is so sustainable that it will fully cover all the needs only from the contributions collected. The establishment of demographic funds, which currently impose resources to co-finance the pension security of future generations in a critical period, is therefore one such solution. They refer to an additional resource to the pension system so that in the future it does not depend solely on contributions and budgetary allowances. The necessary reinforcement of pension insurance will certainly be the subject of many discussions. The pension reform adopted during the second government of Janez Janša had a high consensus in the National Assembly. The social dialogue has ceased. This is why we are obliged to do what we assume must be done, as we must live with the consequences. Our responsibility is also to correct possible injustices, but in a way that does not endanger the long-term stability of the social state. If we correct the wrongs done by pension reform, it is only fair to support the system with a long-awaited source and the establishment of demographic reserves for the future, so that intergenerational solidarity will work in 20 or 30 years, not just for a political mandate or two. When we proposed the law, we had really sincere intentions. We've used all the experience we've had in the past attempts at law enforcement. We have been building on the solutions that we have tried to prepare in government so far, and perhaps they have not even reached the public. We had a thorough discussion in the party three years ago, then adopted detailed programming objectives and resolved the dilemmas that are emerging today when there are two concepts of the demographic fund in public. We have good arguments that the solutions proposed are what they are. Taking into account the professional backgrounds, the real facts and all the efforts we have made so far, we believe that the proposal is a good enough basis for further consideration. There is still room for improvement in the bill and also for additions. We did our best to prepare him this way. Issues of investment constraints and transitional periods, greater transparency and even space to ensure continued funding for certain important substantive areas, such as homes for older or demographic resilience, may be cleared and used for further consideration through amendments. Your Honor, such decisions need to be based on a broad consensus. If we were able to reach a fundamental consensus at least on the current state of affairs and the legal course of rescue, we could certainly also resolve some of the minor dilemmas that have been raised in the debate when we presented the bill to all stakeholders in the last month. We regret that the draft law has not been addressed by the Economic and Social Council. The new rules to deal with the opposition's proposals have therefore not yet been applied and respected. We are also sorry that the actions of the President of the Government and his coalition do not make much preparations for an in-depth public hearing and debate, but we will nevertheless sincerely present at today's agenda all the arguments for the adoption of this law and try to find the most constructive solutions from the debate of fellow Members and colleagues. We still hope that the final decision on the appropriateness of the proposal for further consideration will also prevail over the fact that in our proposal we have paid great attention to transparency, democratic control and the prevention of political influences. This is the whole chapter of our law. Let us note that the proposal put forward by the Government to the National Assembly has serious professional criticism in this area. Let this be an additional incentive to build on the proposal before us today and give it a chance to continue its consideration. Thus, four key arguments for the adoption of the bill are: demographic movements, legality and compliance with the legislation already adopted, the principle of the social state and time, as each further lost year of the Fund further undermines the ability of the Fund to achieve its objectives. The proposal meets everything they require to be adopted, and we respect all the standards that we need to respect as a developed country, EU Member State and OECD. We provide demographic reserves with a clear objective, permanent and additional resources and ensure their independence from political influences, while establishing democratic control and political responsibility for the management of key assets intended to address demographic pressures. Therefore, I should like to invite you, colleagues and colleagues, at this introduction, only to have a patient and in-depth debate and support for the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Monika Gregorčič to present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u74	Honourable Vice-President, Government Representative, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Pensions due to population ageing or to adverse demographic trends are rising in many countries. These countries are therefore all looking for solutions to provide additional financial resources in the form of so-called demographic funds. These are state-owned funds established for pre-financing of pension funds during the period when their expenditure will be higher than their income, as well as for additional dedicated investments for the older population. Following the example of other countries, the Republic of Slovenia also decided to establish its demographic reserve fund when adopting the 2012 pension reform. In the new system pension law with the symbol PIZ-2, the Fund has also established an appropriate legal basis for this fund. The specific law should then regulate the implementation work within two years, i.e. the operation and financing of the demographic reserve fund. However, the legal deadline for setting up expired at the end of 2014. Later, an implementing article was also incorporated into the Slovenian State Holding Act, which provided for the conversion of KAD to an independent, autonomous demographic reserve fund by 31 December 2015 at the latest. As a leading government party, we have unfortunately failed in our efforts to harmonise and also adopt this proposal, the proposal for a demographic fund law. However, particularly between the SMC and one of the coalition parties, the differences in the issue of control, management and investment structures owned by the Fund were so large that no agreement was reached. Also in the government of Marjana Šarca, this coordinated process continued. We have made a constructive effort to establish this fund, in line with the guidelines on good corporate governance, to manage the country's capital investments in a concentrated manner and to ensure an adequate level of security, dispersion and profitability. He was prepared to some extent for a coordinated legislative proposal. Among the parties to the coalition at that time, however, the main differences revolved around the composition of the supervisory, management and, in particular, the composition of the Fund's permanent resources. Compared to today's law, it is therefore not difficult to conclude that the applicants have drawn up this proposal on the basis of an incompletely harmonised version of the previous coalition. Therefore, in this place, to avoid possible misinterpretations in order to be a law that is harmonised, we also make it clear to SMC: the content of this law before us in some articles is significantly different from the last working version of the former coalition. Unfortunately, the use of legal material by another author to achieve his own political goals is not new. True, such material is not supposed to be copyrighted, but there may be a somewhat more controversial time-consuming aspect of investing in the legislative process just before the government law began its legislative path. Even so, this is already a known manoeuvre of obstruction or slowing down of the adoption of a government act. However, you have then proposed the withdrawal or postponement of the treatment of your own law. The question whether this was indeed a sincere desire to further coordinate the material with stakeholders or just an additional manoeuvre to further delay the treatment of the government law, since it can only begin after the end of the examination of your law. If you really needed more time, you would not have to be so hasty at first. But these were procedural maneuvers. Now I want to go back to the content. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we find that the proposed law does follow some of the solutions under the mandate of the previous government, but, at the same time, we cannot shake the sense that the protection of the so-called national interest and the desire to preserve the influence of some stakeholders is behind. The latter is particularly evident from the selective list of companies that are supposed to form the Fund's core capital investments. These are the Sava Reinsurance Company, Slovenian National Forests, Telekom Slovenije, Lottery Slovenije and so on. Given that the objectives of the law explicitly state that the fund should act as a global portfolio investor, i.e. without dominant business shares, the legal articles result in equity concentration of investments in Krk, Blue Insurance and Lottery Slovenia. Such concentrations, of course, represent greater exposure to business and financial risks. Of course, it is obvious and highly inconsistent with the marriage proposal, so it is no longer meaningful to define other substantive solutions. Members of the Modern Centre Party therefore conclude that the law is suitable for further consideration, we cannot support it. However, let me add that the current government has already adopted and has submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for its National Demographic Fund Act. In addition to the primary objective of providing additional funds necessary for the pension fund, the law also follows the idea of centralising state investment management. The Fund's revenue will be earmarked for the co-financing of pensions today and not until 20 years from now, as proposed by the bill's proponents. However, the Fund's income will also be earmarked for other demographic measures related to health and social services, such as the construction of homes for the elderly. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we stress that the demographic fund cannot be a project of only two political parties, not only a ruling coalition, but it is a broader social project. It is therefore necessary to involve those stakeholders who are or will continue to benefit from this fund in the future. Of course, appropriate social dialogue must therefore be conducted. The establishment of a national demographic fund must also not be an excuse to avoid changing and adapting the pension system in the future, as the White Paper on Pensions also explicitly points out. The demographic fund cannot be the magic wand that will solve the entire problem of the pension system. Its main role is only in the financial burden of the system by covering the difference between income and pension fund expenditure. Indeed, the current payments of these differences are made under the burden of the State budget and therefore it is not justified and it is not appropriate to place all hopes for the resolution of the pension fund in the establishment of any such fund. Sooner or later, a new pension reform will be needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Luka Mesec, who will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! In Levica we support the widest possible debate on the demographic fund, which raises a number of important issues, both on the financing of the pension fund and on the management of state property, so that, at the outset, we will support the further debate on the law tabled by the Party of Alenka Bratušek and the Social Democrats. Nevertheless, in my position, I am going to ask a few questions or take, say, a sceptical position towards the concept of the demographic fund. The demographic fund in the Slovenian public, primarily thanks to politicians, responds to us as some kind of winged, some kind of buzzword and everyone has somehow adjusted their ears to the fact that the demographic fund is some kind of a solution to the pension fund, which is supposed to miraculously save too low pensions, minuses that are collected every year in the pension register, about billions of them now, and will probably increase in the future due to demographic trends and so on. My basic position and also the position of the Left is that the demographic fund is not a miraculous solution to these problems, it will not solve the deficits of pension and the problem of low pensions, which are the real problem of this society. Let me remind you. According to the calculations, it has been repeated every year that almost half of the pensioners live there under the risk of poverty. So we need to ask ourselves two key questions in the context of the demographic fund. The first is what this fund saves, and to be very honest here, and the second is what it means to manage state property. I'll take my turn. Pension fund finances and what will save the demographic fund. As I said before, every year, the pension box is about a billion euros down. We collect about €4 billion in Zpiz, and from the budget goes what is running out. Last year, 2019, the budget in Zpiz paid 965 million euros, this year, after the rebalancing, is forecast for almost 200 million more minus, a billion EUR 150 million. According to the projections taken by the proposer as its starting point, this hole will be twice as big in 2040 as it will be this year, amounting to €2.4 billion. On the other hand, we have two concepts of the demographic fund, one prepared by the Social Democrats and the SAB, the other proposed by government parties. The results of these two funds will be as follows: according to the proposal at the table today, SD and SAB, by 2040 the demographic fund per year would have €400 million in the pension fund and €200 million in the government proposal. It is said that 2.4 billion euros will have a pension allowance, according to the proposaler in 2040 minus, and the demographic fund will cover 200 and 400 million, depending on which concept will win, which means 8% of the deficit under the government proposal or 16% of the deficit under the SD and SAB proposal. The second thing to be pointed out is that these are not funds that would have been created from nothing that would have come new to the pension fund, but would have helped with 20-year savings. In fact, between 2020 and 2040, in the cumulative period of the fund, which is similar again in both proposals, this means that we will be able to put EUR 150 million each year on the profit side of state-owned enterprises now out of the budget, but also in the pension box, after a new savings, into the demographic fund that will trade with it in the global capital markets. But this 150 million euros a year for the demographic fund means at the same time 150 million euros a year for the state budget. It's similar to excise revenue. If we decide that 2% of excise revenue will go to the demographic fund, that means 2% of excise revenue will go to the budget or 30% of the concessions for the exploitation of water resources. What's a plus for the demographic fund is a minus for the budget. This is what I'm trying to say. We must be aware that this means we are giving up part of our resources in the budget. This year, according to the budget portal, it seems to me that the domain – designed by the previous government – is projected to be a billion and 150 million investments. Investment funds are the ones most valuable in the budget. After all the legal obligations on behalf of the social state, pensions and so on have been covered, the money for investments is what remains of the state to do with it. The demographic fund is likely to mean that for 20, 25, maybe 30% will be less in the next 20 years because we will put them in the demographic fund. In short, I note that it does not matter what will happen to this money in the demographic fund, and the question is whether the accumulation or nobility of this money in the global capital markets is the best way to manage this money, or whether it would not be better to think about how at home, with domestic investments, to achieve the best possible effects, both on the responses to the current problems in society and on what will happen in 20 years with the pension money. Third problem. We are talking here about setting up some kind of state capital pension fund, which, as it is said, will be operating on global financial markets. Over the next 20 years, this money is expected to be upgraded to contribute 400 million a year to the state budget. If we move 20 years ago, in 2000, we imagine that the country would then decide to set up such a demographic fund, which will nominate money on global capital markets by 2020 and start paying dividends to the pension fund in 2020, can we seriously count on it not to be in the midst of at least two crises or even three, as happened between 2000 and 2020? If I recall. At the beginning of 2000, there was a so-called dot-com bubble when the IT bubble broke, in 2008, a global financial crisis followed by an even wider crisis in the euro area, and now we have a coronary crisis. All of this affects what the demographic fund can do in the next 20 — or I say this in order to be prepared for the demographic fund to face similar problems over the next 20 years and to be as self-evident as it may seem. Time in capitalism isn't always sunny. We must be aware that investments in global capital markets can also go down and that the fund can thus lose some of the funds. Last but not least, what I wanted to say in this opening position is that we need to talk about what the country's capital investment management demographic fund means. From our point of view, from the point of view of the Left, given everything I have said before, these three key reservations seem to be essentially the main topic that we need to talk about when we talk about the demographic fund, how we will manage the state property better than we have done in recent years, or, above all, how we will allow the demographic fund to be the one that will nominate the state property, not sell it. On the basis of everything that is said, my position is well-intentioned, but we would like to talk about it in the widest possible sense. This law will be supported at first reading, and we are particularly looking forward to the exchange of views on the reservations I have expressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Secretary of State! All together, dear colleagues, we have long known, and the European Commission has been warning us for many years that Slovenian society is the society that is the fastest to age within the European Union. These warnings, as we say, have been given for many years, but of course we can also calculate them ourselves. Demographic projections, which indicate a high increase in public financial expenditure on pensions, challenge all generations to agree together, agree on how a country can, by redistributing its incomes, ensure the most equitable and stimulating environment for co-ordination, and therefore it is essential that all generations are involved in defining key objectives and carrying out activities to achieve them. I emphasize, all generations. The Slovenian pension system, which operates on the principle of solidarity, is no longer able to ensure long-term sustainability in the situation of the smaller active population. The Slovenian pension system operates on the principle of hand-to-mouth, domestically speaking, meaning that contributions from salaries are spent on the pensions of those who are retired at the time. It is a so-called cross-border pension system in which the pension received by the future pensioner is not the result of his payments to the pension account, from which he would benefit after the end of the working period, but all payments are used immediately for those pensioners who receive the pension now. The Slovenian pension system is already unrestrained, and we know this for a long time because the pension security contributions paid do not provide sufficient funds to pay pensions and the lack of funds must be provided by the State through the state budget and in accordance with the law. Slovenia does not have a fund following the example of an insurance system where the money or property for pensions would be deposited and nobility, which would benefit both current and future generations of pensioners. Perhaps I will tell the Slovenian public only the rough numbers, which have already been presented here today, how much we actually need to provide in Slovenia for annual pensions and everything that belongs to it. Last year, we had to provide about €5 billion and a half for pensions and everything that belongs to us. Five and a half billion. From the contributions we have provided only 4 billion and a half – approximate figures are – which means that the difference, which is 1 billion, had to contribute according to the law to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia – well, exactly 50 million has contributed – at a time when we had quite encouraging economic growth, quite a lot of employment. Ladies and gentlemen, the structure of the Slovenian population is expected to change significantly from the latest Eurostat demographic projections in 2015 to the future. While the proportion of children or young people from 0 to 19 years of age will remain almost unchanged, the proportion of older people aged 65 and over will increase by more than half from 2016 to 2070, from 18.6% to 28.3%. The proportion of the elderly will increase due to the many generations born after World War II, so-called baby boom generation, and until 1980, when birth was still high, and due to the rapid extension of life expectancy. That's encouraging, though. On the other hand, the share of the working population will be reduced by about 15 percentage points, from 66.4 to 51.2% of the total population, from 20 to 65 years of age. All of this shows that — let’s pour pure wine — the SD and SAB measure fund and the coalition measure fund or our government does not mean a solution to the pension system. We are determined that in the next term we will approach a radical change in the pension system, because just as we have it, it is simply not sustainable. Ladies and gentlemen, ZPIZ-2, namely, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2, for seven years now, has provided for the adoption of a law governing the demographic fund. Well, we've been part of this government or part of this coalition for seven months. The main proponent and authors of the law, Social Democrats, are practically in the government, if I now compare it, 12 times longer than seven months. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act, STIZ-2, therefore, states in its 427th Article on the demographic reserve fund: “With special law, the operation and financing of the demographic reserve fund referred to in the first paragraph of Article 8 of this Act shall be regulated within two years of the entry into force of this Act.” True, this law was prepared by our government at the time, it was adopted on 4 December 2012 and it had a great consensus here in this Chamber. However, it entered into force on 1 January 2013. As it is said, just to refresh the memory, from 20 March 2013 to 13 March 2020, SD was part of various governments. For seven years, it was time to propose a law on demographic reserves as a coalition party, and it was eventually introduced almost at the same time as the government law on the national demographic fund. However, we can say that we appreciate and take seriously the efforts of the Social Democrats that you have put forward in preparing the proposal. In this place, I especially thank my colleague, Sonibo Knezak, and my professional associate, in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats have prepared a very quality presentation of this concept, which is, of course, very different from the concept of the National Demographic Fund Act, which the Government has already adopted. In a way, we regret that we have not in any other way agreed to integrate these solutions into government law when the deadline was offered, through cooperation between development partnerships or in any way. We have quite a few concerns here. Now we don't have enough time to present everything. We have a problem with water concessions. Look, on the one hand, the bill's proponents were great advocates of the constitutional right to drinking water, which is nothing wrong, and on the other hand, we would actually be taking money, in our own words, from that bag that was supposed to provide drinking water. As an additional source, I quote: “30 % of the collected levy on concessions for the exploitation of water from water sources.” We refer to the Water Act, which specifies the payments for water rights and water refunds, which are, in accordance with Article 162 of the Act, the assigned revenue of the budget or the Water Fund as the budget fund. The Article specifies the purpose of the use of these funds, i.e. the Water Fund, which would mean 30% less funding in the event of the allocation of these funds from the budget to the demographic fund, yes, for example, municipal projects for the new construction or reconstruction of drinking water systems to ensure public water supply. As I have already mentioned, there are two different concepts, the concept of SD and SAB and the concept of a government coalition, which is why Nova Slovenija will not support the proposal to decide that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Vojko Starović, who will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The SD and SAB parties jointly tabled a proposal for a law on Slovenian demographic reserves or the establishment of a demographic fund to address the demographic challenges of an ageing society and ensure the long-term stability of the pension treasury. The SAB is committed to developing long-term solid demographic reserves that will guarantee the younger generations that the pension register will be stable over the decades and will work. That's what this is about. There are four things I would like to point out that our proposal, which we have on the table today, includes, and unfortunately the government does not. If we want to ensure long-term stability of the pension fund, we cannot and cannot use the funds from the fund immediately. Therefore, our law provides for a first 20-year accumulation of these funds, and only after 20 years of further expansion of the scissors can consumption begin. So when it's necessary. The resources of the demographic fund must be allocated exclusively to pensions. Why? As the pension register, as I have already said, needs stability, young people need confidence that pensions will also be paid in 30, 40, 50 years. Everything else you have added to the government proposal as mandatory co-financing has been done to the detriment of this stability and to the detriment of pensions. With everything else going on, you deprive the pensioners. Therefore, once again we recommend an in-depth reflection on whether this is the right course. Our proposal reserves and provides funds exclusively for pensions. Third time. State property must remain state property. Do not pass it on to any fund or anything. It is not possible to "privatise" all that is left of us by one law. In the proposal before us today, before all of us, property remains the property of the country, management of it and all responsibilities with it. The State only carries net income and income from the operation and from the sale of this property to the benefit of pension reserves. On a proposal from the SAB party, the right to clean drinking water is enshrined in our constitution. Water is our greatest natural resource, and it is right that part of the revenue from water consumption also flows into the demographic fund and thus, in some way, at least a fraction of the natural goods that we are using today remain for the future. These are the four points which are essential for the client of the SAB in the reception and design of the demographic fund. We are ready to talk about all the other things, and at these four points we will not deviate from our views. I will repeat them: the money of the fund is only for pensions; the property must remain owned by the country, only the net income from the operation and sale of this property goes to the management of the reserves; at least 20 years is necessary to accumulate the funds, only then can the consumption start; the money from the use of the water, it is our greatest natural wealth, to have in some part also the demographic fund, otherwise we can have other resources. I thank my colleagues from the SD who have invested a lot of energy and work in the drafting of the law, that we have come up with a much more consistent and realistic basis for creating such a demographic fund that will actually fulfil its purpose. In the SAB Group, of course, we will support the law as one that is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Polnar will be next in line to present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The purpose of the demographic reserve fund is to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system by providing certain pre-funded funds for the purpose of paying pensions. These funds will become part of the supplementary pension scheme after the end of the accumulation period. This will achieve a more balanced income from the pension fund. The capital company was established to cover the deficit in the pension and disability insurance system financed under the intergenerational exchange system. According to its content and objectives, it has acted from the very beginning as a demographic reserve fund. Formal transformation into a demographic reserve means that it must be strengthened financially. Since 2000, the State budget has been legally responsible for balancing the revenue and expenditure of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and for allowing it to operate in a balanced manner. The State's obligation to cover the difference between the income and expenditure of the institution remains in force in all applicable laws, including the current pension law. The obligation to cover the deficit is not linked to the specific rights of the public pension system, but rather to the unspecified and variable obligation of the state budget. The apparent balanced budget of the institution therefore poses a latent threat to the balance of the state budget. The fact that the pension system is largely dependent on the state budget also contains an important implication in terms of the idea of the demographic fund. This is largely based on the sub-use of national wealth to finance the pension system. The demographic fund is an emergency. On the income side of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, there will be no stable resources in the future, both in content and in height, the revenue side with its dynamics will not be able to follow the increasing expenditure needs. We must therefore decide on an appropriate institutional solution to regulate the establishment of sustainable sources of financing, governance and quality future action. Under the provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Capital Company should be transformed into an independent autonomous demographic fund on 31 December 2015. That didn't happen, after all. During the previous term of office of the National Assembly, the Desus Group introduced the Act on the Slovenian Demographic Fund in January 2018 into the legislative procedure. The government withdrew a month and a half later, so the legislative process was closed. The main reason for the inability to make decisions on this important institution is the divisiveness between privatisation ambitions and the provision of a social state. It is clear that learning from mistakes in Slovenian political and corporate practices means repeating them and eliminating them. Grotesque political complications, management farce and a tragic decline in management competences, from the Slovenian State Holding and Bank Claims Management Company to some 10 influential companies, are a constant regardless of political authority. Over the past nine years, four governments have repeated similar errors and the problems are clearly broader, systemic and long-term, linked to political culture and economic knowledge. The question is whether we are able to manage them and achieve the objective of establishing a demographic reserve fund. Its fundamental purpose is therefore to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system. What is missing today is additional to the level and structure of stable resources. In recent years, Desus has taken care of one of the sources of funding. In the Slovenian State Holding Act of March 2014, we achieved that 10% of purchases are made from the sale of state assets for the financing of the demographic fund. To date, EUR 159 million has been raised in this account for the transfer to the Fund. The simulations of demographic movements do not predict anything optimistic. By 2050, according to Eurostat's projections, the proportion of people aged 65 and over from the current 20% would have increased to 31%, with fairly optimistic assumptions on migration. Currently, 1 out of every 5 inhabitants is 65 years old and over, almost 1 out of every 3 people in 2050 will do so. On the other hand, the proportion between 20 and 64 years of age will decrease, further exacerbating the relationship between workers and those in retirement. The ageing of society means an inevitable increase in pressure on public resources to support health and the general economic well-being of older citizens. Demographic trends and the related issue of the public financial sustainability of the pension system on the one hand and low pensions on the other are indicators calling for concrete measures to be taken by our pension system, not only in the light of the tightening of the conditions of retirement and the retention on the expenditure side of the pension fund. In this way, in Slovenia, we have mitigated the need to increase public funds through pension reforms, and now it is about providing additional financial resources for pensions. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, in the second half of the previous year, from August to November, in the framework of the previous coalition, we participated in the preparation of the law on the demographic fund. There were two basic assumptions: the transfer of the Capital Society to the demographic fund and the 20-year accumulation period. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, five variants of the size and structure of the core capital were prepared. For each variant, future return simulations have been made taking into account the different rates of return and the accumulation period. Two major shortcomings have been identified. In any event, the size of the demographic fund was too low, as was its co-financing of the pension fund in the coming period. The bill that we are considering today is to a large extent the result and effect of the work at that time. There has been another radical change since then. The epidemic has profoundly changed the state's public finances, as its consequences cannot be mitigated and limited without the use of heavy weapons, it is said to be a high debt. This must be taken into account because it is an irrefutable reality. The different scenarios, the time dynamics of both filling the demographic fund and drawing on its returns are thus placed in an unexpected context. Denial of reality means non-recognition of objective facts. In our particular case, this led to a revision of the position on the urgency of the accumulation period in the position to the need for the accumulation of funds from the future demographic fund and the partial use of incomes to co-finance the pension fund. Members of the Desus Group are not in favour of the proposed content of the Slovenian Demographic Reserve Act, so we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u84	A nice greeting to all present, especially you, presidents, but of course to the billmaker! The first to be signed under the law is Matjaž Han. Sir, who knows well that we have to take care of our pension ourselves, he is therefore the half-owner of M & M International, d. o. o., Radeče. By the way, the other half of the company owns what society owns. Seven employees generated almost EUR 720 000 in 2019. These employees will certainly have a decent pension. Matjaž Han as an individual can therefore be a model, yes, for the example of all of us. Each and every one of us has to secure a decent pension. We need to think, we need to work and, of course, we need to save. Matjaž Han as a politician is another story. There is an article online: Matjaž Han played with Melanie. Of course Trump's wife. I would like to know why he did not transfer this childhood friendship to the state level as well and why Melanie might ask why Amazon, Apple, Alphabet, Microsoft, IBM and other American giants do not choose Slovenia as their destination in the European Union. Only higher domestic and foreign investments in the economy, more productive work, higher added value work are solutions for future pensioners. When people have higher wages, they will also have higher pensions. The time for the establishment of the demographic fund was early in the 1990s, right after the independence. Slovenian politics, however, has gone from issuing certificates to purchasing managers. At that time, companies such as Adria Airways, TAM, Viator & Vector, Litostroj, Aero, Smelt, Mura, Vrhnika, Polzela, Vegrad, SCT, Primorje, Peko and what half an hour could still be listed. I'm afraid it's stolen too much. That's a fact, there was too much thieving. Social Democrats know very well where these societies are today. However, those companies that did not fail due to poor governance sold Slovenian policy to foreigners. Where are Radenska, Fructal, Nova Ljubljanska banka, New Bank of Credit, Helios, Perutina Ptuj and so on? So what are we supposed to put in the demographic fund today? According to your proposal, what is already owned by the State is the share of state dividends and the share of excise duties. This bill would simply transform the Capital Society into a demographic fund. We would ensure the independence and autonomy of the Fund. As long as policy replaces more and more important functions in the country, there will be no independence and autonomy. You represent the demographic fund as a global portfolio investor and do not indicate where you would invest globally. You are also writing about the fact that the funds of the Capital Society should no longer be used up for the purposes of current pensioners. Would you like the pensioners to have even lower pensions? The exchange of capital companies between the State and the Fund will in no way increase the value of the assets of the demographic fund. The change is the change. The funds could only be increased by transferring certain state investments to the Fund. The proposal for a law for future pensioners does not bring solutions that could have a greater effect. In addition, we must not neglect all the costs incurred in setting up such a demographic fund. It is practically cheaper if the missing pension funds, which are not collected by contributions to pension insurance, are financed directly from the state budget than from the demographic fund. If a demographic fund were to be set up at the time of independence and transferred to it all the social assets of the day, pensions would be financed solely from dividends of state companies. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that, given the empty state cash and current demographic indicators, the only solution for higher pensions is higher wages. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u86	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Demographic projections show a high increase in public financial expenditure for pensions and challenge all generations to agree together on how a country can ensure the most equitable and stimulating environment for co-operation by redistributing its revenues. Under the basic scenario, expenditure on ageing in Slovenia would have increased from 21.9 gross domestic product to 28.2 gross domestic product in the period 2016 to 2070 and the number of pensioners would have increased by around 20% by 2070. The Slovenian pension system, which operates on the principle of solidarity, is no longer able to ensure long-term sustainability in the situation of the smaller active population, as pension security contributions paid already do not provide sufficient funds to pay pensions and the lack of resources must be provided by the State through the state budget. In the SDS Group, we have always supported the establishment of a demographic fund, but, I would say, the manoeuvre of Social Democrats and Alenka Bratušek by introducing this law has surprised us quite a bit. It is undoubtedly based on the fact that the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, adopted in 2012, provided for the establishment of a demographic fund within two years. Then came the Slovenian State Holding Act, which predicted that the Fund would be established by the end of 2015. Throughout this period, the Social Democrats have always been members of the government coalition. And we don't understand why you haven't set up a demographic fund in this period, as you're proposing now. What is the key reason that after seven years of failure to create a demographic fund, despite having scissors and canvas in your hands, you have decided to maneuver the proposed law now? Are there reasons somewhere else? You probably know that the most. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we absolutely disagree with the proposed concept and the content of the proposed law. We are convinced that the matter can be prepared in a better way, substantially better, including providing resources for the demographic fund in a different way than the existing law proposes. Last but not least, in the SDS Group, in the coalition, the Minister of Finance has always been in favour of taking all good proposals into account. We will not support this bill in the SDS Group. We are convinced that he is not prime minister for further consideration. However, we call on everyone to make an effort to improve the proposal put forward by the Government in this way. I am convinced that in these matters it is necessary to cooperate with both the coalition and the opposition, and I am convinced that with the proposals that the opposition may propose, all the parties to this national assembly, the proposed law can only be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The first one has the word of colleague Knezak, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you, Chairman. I must say that I am pleased, after listening to the debate of all the parliamentary groups, that we have many similar views on the common solution to the problem of the shortage of Zpiz. I've been writing down a little bit, and I'm not even going to comment on everyone, not even those who are going back into some past, but just a few things that I've written down. Just around the government, there's going to be too many risks, so we don't even know how to estimate real resources. I'm sorry, it was clear from our material that that line meant that it was a printing error, so today I'm going to tell you that strengthening the fund means an additional 451 million. We have all the tables well worked out, so you can get all the data. And lastly, I read the government's answer as an insult because we dared to come up with a proposal of our own. Even the findings of the largest government party, SDS, now that we were in the government, why we did not do this – I have already said, even on the SMC's readings, we have prepared a proposal based on a fairly harmonised proposal that you have already made in recent years. I don't see anything wrong with that. That's why we thought it would be a good basis for further agreements. We have been in the government – this obvious fact that we have been in the government all along – of course we have been in the government, but we in the finance ministry, which is crucial in all of this, have not had a financial ministry since 2011. Let me just remind you that SDH was established one year later. But I'm not gonna waste any time on that. The rest of you let me find it. [[…]] We have already agreed on or exchanged opinions from New Slovenia at their meeting. We agree, we do not claim that this is the only solution and a rescue solution, that is one mosaic, one stone in the mosaic of solutions that the country will have to accept in the coming years. They propose to see greater fertility – we agree, it is said that something will have to be done in the area of family policy, young people, to provide them with basic matters concerning this, namely the construction of apartments and the provision of services. We are addressing one part of the problem, it is a real financial deficit that we provide with additional resources, and it is a financial resource. The difference between government and ours is that we don't give businesses, we keep ownership or at least as far as the state property is concerned, remains with SDH, which has done relatively well this matter. There's plenty of room for improvement, too, but it wasn't bad. Above all, our proposal adheres to the OECD guidelines so that we do not mix these two issues – what is also the main obvious. It's a partial solution to the Left. What does the fund do? What is the basic problem of the fund – it provides some additional source. What does this mean for state property? As far as we are concerned, it is important that this asset remains in line with this as a long-term resource, and that is why we have also identified basic demographic investments. If I compare both of them a little bit, that's what Luke did well. The current two proposals that we have on the table are such that our proposal brings twice as much funding to Zpiz as a government proposal, these are facts. He doesn't need companies, he doesn't need to know what, Zpiz needs financial resources. That's the only address we're addressing with this law. We don't build a home for the elderly, not the long-term care, it's a matter of other resources that are responsible in this country. I don't think I've seen any more serious concerns, except, well, opposition opposition opposition opposition. I am pleased that we have opened this debate, but I regret only that – what a colleague from SDS said last, that there must be more cooperation – you have not supported or already announced in advance that you will not back up the second reading, which would not finally enable us to have what we want is another month of public debate. We did it qualityly, we were at both union centers, a good response because we are addressing the problems of this country, one part of the problem, we were at the ZDUS, we also welcome the concept. What we have unfortunately failed to do, and I don't know exactly why, because we should come on the basis of the December agreement last year, is that we haven't been able to reach the Economic and Social Council. What is our wish is to get support today and to open this dialogue in the coming weeks. So far, so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Andre Zabret has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you, President, for your word. First of all, as far as the demographic fund and the demographics themselves are concerned, I will say. Indeed, it is also a general debate and more governments have been working on the establishment of a demographic fund, even today this has been said several times, but unfortunately no government has yet found a compromise. However, it is a fact that all of this has taken too long and that demographics have already shown very obvious changes. According to the latest data of the Statistical Office, we currently have 20.2% of all people aged 65 in Slovenia, in 2050 this projection shows already 34%, which means a big change. And this will have a real impact not only on the sustainability of the public pension fund, but also on other parts of the economy and society, as this also changes consumer and other habits and needs of the elderly. We know that with our contributions we collect too little money and that the difference in Zpiz covers the budget. On average, this amount, which is covered by the budget, is billions, of course depending on the economic situation itself, and has been smaller and even stronger. For the way in which we now have the budget covering the difference, the Government itself decided in 1996 when an agreement was reached on reducing contributions to pension and disability insurance, and from then on the budget is committed to covering the deficit of Zpiz. Maybe this is my opinion, too, it was a hunch that maybe no government has ever actually been in a complete hurry to really adopt this law, because the difference will already cover the budget. As I have already said, and as has already been heard, demographic trends are truly unfavourable, we do not collect enough resources with contributions, and as a result, there is increasing financial pressure on the budget. What's the answer? Income or additional resources will need to be increased. We all know that the increase in the contribution rates is not meaningful, and the OECD reminds us as this will reduce the competitiveness of the economy. However, if we increase the proportion of the budget, we will once again threaten the stability of public finances. One additional resource is certainly a demographic fund, but it must not be the only one. In particular, because, this is also my personal opinion, Slovenia has too little capital to fully resolve this problem, even if we take into account the fact that the Fund should operate. Indeed, this is also the case with certain experts, it should start with some assets that should operate on the principle that they can also invest in foreign securities and capital shares and manage the investment portfolio. If only briefly, what kind of proposal did the Government make, a proposal concerning the demographic fund. To fund and with this property, it is 8.5 billion assets, to co-finance the homes of the elderly, kindergartens, and to save for the demographic fund and also to pay pensions. I think it's too much of a desire for capital as we have it. The Fund’s basic principle should be profitability, security of investment, liquidity, dispersion and independence. One of the reasons why politics cannot be unified is that. Maybe this last one, independence. All the problems of demographics cannot be solved overnight. For a long time, experts have been alerting themselves to demographic trends for many years, and this cannot be resolved overnight. On the one hand, we probably have a big problem with how to fix this. Of course, it is important that we sort this out sooner or later, but with great care not to destroy and sell out some of the assets and good businesses that we have left. The demographic fund, we all probably know this, will not save or increase pensions and will not fully relieve the budget, but will only help to mitigate co-financing of the state budget into the pension fund. But it is also true that demographics are not only the solution to pensions, but it is actually the result. Demographics are a lot of other things. The largest amount of pension funds is collected from contributions paid and it is therefore very important how the economy works, how many people work, the structure of employees, how and when they enter the youth market, the education system itself and so on. In fact, we know how sensitive the pension box is for economic cycles. Therefore, there may be an interesting comparison or a reflection when we define demographic policy. In health care, we can influence both the income side and the contribution, as well as the expenditure side, is said only by the effectiveness of the health system. In pension policy, however, we can only intervene on the income side, not on the expenditure side, so it is all the more important what the state is and how the economy works. One of the things that I would like to point out and which bothers me in this matter, or I personally think it is very important, is that a long-term investment – that the country may have to take care of the financial literacy of children in kindergartens, in primary schools and in secondary schools. What do I mean? Now we know that the first pillar, the first pillar, is paid the contributions of employers and employees, but not enough. In addition to the first pillar, we have the second pillar, which is an additional pension insurance, which is voluntary, but the state has done absolutely little on this pillar. While the public sector and better companies pay for their employees, there are not enough people who are aware to pay for themselves and further save for later life periods, even young people. If there's only one case I can tell you. When I was, I don't know, a long time ago, I'm going to say 30 years ago, in Switzerland, there were very young people at the time who first entered the labour market, who were first employed, and he said, yes, I'm giving up my salary, the first month when I start working, I start saving for my old age, for my pension. At the time, I will say, as I saw it with my own eyes, I was very surprised: yes, and the country will take care of it with us. I think that these times, that we can rely only on this kind of pension, are past that young people, especially young ones — because the sooner you start saving, the more you will be able to start when you retire — when you start working, pay, and save for your age. Of course, this is not just up to them, as I said, but we should raise awareness and educate young people in schools. The country should also encourage people to start saving through special fiscal measures. Therefore, my call is that we must not forget the young people most affected by this change in age structures, and it is our responsibility to present these challenges to them to empower them to prepare themselves to meet these challenges. However, if only in concrete terms about this proposal that we are discussing today, as regards the Social Democrats' proposal. We are not opposed to the LMŠ proposal, as it is also very similar to the proposal of the demographic fund that we have already prepared in the previous government. At the same time, however, we also had a major problem with the transfer of investments from the country to the fund, where one part of the country's income will be taken up, is what these dividends are called, and it will result in an even greater deficit in the budget, since at the same time the country will have to cover Zpisa for 20 years, and after 20 years the fund will co-finance a proportion of pensions that will be practically small. This co-financing under the most conservative scenario means a good 400 million a year. It is said, above all, that this question is whether this model, that is 20 years of moratorium, is effective. And also about the returns. In this demographic fund there are very different companies, including with very different activities, and it is very difficult for everyone to say in the same order what income they must have. It depends very much on whether the return, if I say so, is I don't know, Geoplina or Telekom or the return of Mail, which we know is completely different. This and the fact that it is necessary to point out – that we cannot take all the profits out of these companies because they also need funds for investment and development. We won't object to the LMŠ law. Above all, there is today a general debate and there is likely to be several ideas and proposals, which we can then modify further and perhaps improve the law at certain points.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Han, prepare Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u92	President, thank you very much. Secretary of State, good afternoon! Colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! First of all, even though I am used to it, I am a little disturbed by the benevolence of this law, even to this concept that we have put into the National Assembly. I am aware of the covida situation, health situation, but we all note that in our country demography is one big problem, that the pension box already does not withstand all the efforts that it has to make to pay pensions, and we all find and all the projections show that in 20 years or 30 years from now the case will still be significantly worse. [[…]] Here is probably the common decision of all, I will also say macro-economics and political parties and pensioners and young people. This seems crucial to me, and here, I think, we are all in harmony. Nor will I dispute with the predecessors and their theories, why we have put this in, what our purpose is and so on, the problem is that in politics, if two concepts, I will say, do not meet, they are difficult to reconcile. They're hard to match. And I'm not going to discuss which government was longer and which political party was in power anymore, because they don't even keep those numbers for months. The problem is that our concept of what I've seen now that the government has accepted is really different. A truly different one, and despite the fact that we will strive in the Group of Social Democrats to improve the Government's project with amendments, if possible, I fear that the concepts will not be covered. Slovenia has one big problem, that it does not have oil like some other countries, that it does not have any ores to finance such and different things, the only thing Slovenia has is people. People who have already paid a series of years of taxes that they create essentially create and pay taxes in one bag. And we only have one bag, my dear. One bag for being everything you are, I'll say, politics, what people want, what they think they need to get, we take out of this bag. And this bag is not such a bag that there is money in it indefinitely — it is not. Some things, however, need to be foreseen, organised, saved and in some ways solidarity. I think this story or this marriage of ours answers that question. We have one problem. The pension system is solid – thank God it is, and I hope that it will stay that way, because it is crucial. And most importantly, in the pension system, young generations as well as current pensioners must feel that this matter is solid and that this matter will give bread to the next generation or to pensions. If we lose hope that this pension system is good, then it won't pay up, and then it can really make us some kind of chaos. We all know that in the past we made a lot of mistakes in the pension system, that some people were too young to retire, that we made them in the early 1990s — because you know what happened when we went to our country, we put people between the ages of 40 and 45, and they are still relatively young today, and they have been collecting pensions for 20, 30 years. Thank God that the health system of laufa, that we live longer, and that is all the results, why we, in addition to what we collect in the pension register, have to give another billion resources from the budget every year. Every year. So these are the problems. Yes, we can talk, as Mr Joseph Horvat said, about the need to change the pension law. But you know how hard this is. When we, the Social Democrats, changed him into good faith, we got a referendum. When the government of Janez Janša changed it and was very similar or the same as ours, with only one article of the difference, we as a nation-building party supported it because we are aware of the problem. But the numbers are absolutely cruel as far as that is concerned. The difference between our concept, I will not say maneuvers, as some say, and the concept we saw prepared by the Government is great. First of all, all the assets we intend to give to the demographic fund remain owned by the country, which is very important for my notions as a citizen. Your difference is that all the assets you want to have in the demographic fund are actually given into the so-called demographic fund and you cancel ownership and will be managed by the administration and controlled by the supervisory board. That's a big difference for me. And when you tell us or you want to report that we will deal with it politically afterwards – the controller will remain SDH, as far as we are concerned, and the state will not deal with various administrations in the supervisory world, but SDH and the manager will manage this property. The key is to get the money into this little one. The key is to get the money, not the walls, I don't know what, but the money, the dividend money, the excise money, 2% of the excise goods we want. Then the SAB proposed from a water source, we propose the only wealth we have in Slovenia, wood, and that for 20 years, my dears, we accumulate these resources to be as much as possible. That there will be as many as possible and that, in 20 years' time, we will be able to inject it in some way with the state budget in order to be able to pay our pensions. And then there won't be enough money. I'm absolutely aware of that. Absolutely not enough money. But I can't imagine – because I'm about to go — I can't imagine that in the system that you've just proposed, which is obviously purely for discussion, that we're going to try to accumulate money to build, I don't know what the state should be building, so that we can understand each other, and then there won't be any money. And then I really wonder whether we need it or not. Here is the difference that makes us think that our proposal might be better. Why hasn't he agreed in all these years? I'll be honest with you. Some were concepts, then many times – since the gentleman was with him – argued about what we would put in this fund and which company would continue to do so. I'm not going to talk about any political party that was for who she was for otherwise, but then we're fighting about some control councils and who's going to be in the control world and so on. That is why, of course, it has been easier for us now – since we have aligned ourselves with the Alenka Bratušek Party, with which we have a similar view, we know about exactly what the problem is, and we did not have to coordinate with any of them. I am finally glad that the government has aligned itself with all these partners, only I think that this story will not drink water, that in the end there will be no mathematics. That's a problem for me. This is my problem – that in the end there will be no real mathematics, how we will be able to accumulate so much money that in 20 years we will be able to put as much money into the budget as possible so that we can pay our pensions. Because I know that the current pensioners are concerned, let's just ask ourselves, what about those who will retire in 10 years, and those who are still going to the labour market today? I must give him hope! Because if we lose them, of course, the country will still be able to pay for some time and in 15 years it will not be able to pay any more. And you know what happens when we accept any pension reform – everyone begins to flee to retirement. We can't work from these big stories. Our solidarity pension system is great, of course, we all want people to have higher pensions, but we just need to be aware that people thank God in this country we live significantly longer than our ancestors lived, that we are long in retirement and long in retirement. You know that saying when we talk, it doesn't matter how high the pension is, how many times I get it. But I think it's very important, personally, that this pension allows you a decent life. [[…]] I have to say I'm a little disturbed, Secretary of State, by this benevolence, because, look, we have to listen to you here for two more hours, and then we're going to split up and we're going to say no on Tuesday. But maybe our proposal is good. And I don't know why we wouldn't let him go to the next hearing, to the second reading, to talk to you at the parental committee meeting, maybe find a common solution and move on. We will cooperate when you put this proposal on the committee, and we will try to improve it, but I just don't believe that the concept can be improved. Because all the assets — everything these old people have created — we will now put on one pile and give 15 people to manage it. And the state will have nothing to do with it except give up its supervisors. The property will be from this demographic fund of yours. As we do the transfers and so on, it will be payable, unpaid, it will probably be a matter of debate, but we will give up ownership. And I don't know if it's wiser to give up ownership in this way. Are we satisfied with the DUTB, running the DUTB? Not under your government, Mark, but under our government, it wasn't the most optimal, or we thought it might have ever seemed to you that it wasn't the most optimal. We are and I have to say, here I have to thank our boys who went around to present to all the parliamentary groups – thank you very much for listening to them – to the unions, we also had at the Chamber of Commerce because we think this concept is better than, I'll say, yours. [[…]] But, yes, I admit it, we've only coordinated two parties, and it's been easier. But in order to rule for a while, we must not make trouble for the next generation who will be retired. Because it's a big deal, which is what we're talking about today and what we're going to talk about for your proposal. This is also my responsibility and our responsibility – to adopt such a law that it will in fact form the basis for us to trust in it. You could talk, I don't even have a fight with anyone or I don't have a problem with it, but the right way to do it is to argue a little bit about concepts. So, the numbers are brutal, and the sooner we do, the better. But believe me, it wasn't a maneuver. That's the conclusion. I proposed to Mr Zorčič that he postpone the marriage for one month in November. Not to burden you or to adopt such an important law in a month or two — if we hadn’t adopted it for the last six or seven years, we would have waited two months. In order to present the Economic Chambers, to go to the Economic and Social Council and to have a debate. I know it's best to do this Friday afternoon. There's no voting. That might bother me a little bit. But I won't argue with anyone, because when I heard a sentence, I just laughed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I've got to take this. You proposed to the college, so the college decided. The word has Gregor Perič, prepares Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, other guests! I've listened very carefully now, but I can't tell if this marriage is in a hurry or not. Once in a hurry, after a few minutes, he's either in a hurry or in a hurry to make proposals, then we'd need a little more time, but it's not a maneuver, it's not a maneuver. Let each of us make an impression, and the fact is, if we know a few legislative procedures, that the National Assembly cannot conduct two legislative procedures on the same matter. So, first, he decides on the first law governing a particular area, then he decides on the second. And here the two opposition parties rushed a little. Or not. But given that the government had for some time predicted the introduction of a law governing this area, i.e. the demographic fund, and that this opposition proposal had practically appeared overnight, it was difficult to get rid of the impression or the perception that it was a sort of manoeuvre in this case. Now, let us leave the frankness of the proposer or the dishonesty, I think that today's debate has taken place at least until this point and is going relatively correctly, we are talking about the content, which I think is most crucial in terms of what we like to call system laws, which have a strong or important impact on the future of the regulation of the field of demography. And I'm not quite sure that we're talking about demography or just demographics, because there's a lot of terminology confusion going on with today's session. Once we are talking about the demographic fund or demographic reserves, then we are talking about this pension component, then we are talking about some formation, some fund that has elements of the asset fund, so I think we are not even united in what we would like to achieve by this proposal or by considering this proposal. However, we can be united in the fact that the needs we have in this area of demographics are very large. And I understand demographics relatively broad, including as a reminder of the pension or pension system. This proposal, which we have on the table, is primarily pension-oriented, so it is some additional support, an additional resource that facilitates the financing of the pension system a little later because there is a difference between payments and payments. It's in itself welcome, there's nothing wrong with it. And as we all rightly note, unfortunately this is not enough and will not be enough, even if we find total consensus here and at some point vote on a marriage proposal that will receive 90 votes – means that it will be an ideal solution for some pension fund or demographic fund – it will not be able to resolve this difference between payments and payments, or this deficit that arises every year and is then transferred from the state budget to the pension fund. There are still many, I hope to say, far greater challenges, especially in terms of pension reform. But here, I believe, it will be much harder to squeeze that button that will – we want or we don't want – and let it sound so uncomfortable from the point of view of a political debate – when we have to simply extend the working time. I understand that it is difficult to talk about this, and I understand that before politics, when it bites into this sour apple, a very large supply, when it is necessary for our citizens and citizens to explain that at some point it will be necessary to work longer, because it will simply be this pension box, even in relation to the budget, it will not be sustainable if we set up a demographic fund or anything else. This does not mean that we cannot look for some optimal solutions within the context of talking about a demographic fund, which is not only a pension fund, but also covers many other aspects of family policy, social policy or policy in terms of supporting and building homes for older people, but also the issue of long-term care, if we want to, housing policies, youth policies and intergenerational cooperation, and the issue of education or brain escape, creating quality jobs and the issue of mobility. All of this covers the question or area of demographics. So first of all, we need to clear up what the demographic fund actually means and whether when we talk about the demographic fund, we may not just be talking about the pension fund. In the SMC, we are in favour of a solution that would go towards a demographic fund, which is primarily a wealth fund, that we manage state property here in a somewhat smarter and rational way. We made some extensions at the time when SMC ran the government, when it put in place the actual system with some measurable indicators that we could even determine how good or less good state-owned companies or with state-owned shares are doing that we can also assess the work of their administrations. Of course, a number of other steps must follow, but the country, I believe, in a significant gap or the challenge is that this asset, in one form or another, is quite scattered to different entities. The purpose of the law or government proposal is primarily to make all these different entities, which are much more difficult to monitor, their work to keep under one roof. I think this is the key point of differences in what happens in this case. Because when we do this, when certain entities are shut down, I believe that there is then some bad will in many countries, because, after all, there are also a number of administrations or some directorates, some systems are shrinking, rationalising, there is no longer a need for so many and so many additional support services, this can be conducted more centrally or even more rationally, but, of course, at this concentration, the responsibility of the structure that manages it is inadequately greater. And I think that this is the key challenge that lies ahead when we talk about the demographic fund, one or the other. Another important issue in this respect is when we talk about the sources of this demographic fund. In the SMC, we believe that it is inappropriate to allocate more resources from the dividends themselves for this area, so that the State should increase those dividends it receives from the ownership or production of individual state-owned enterprises, that is to say to increase this share, which goes into the fund itself, so that the Government or the Fund, as such, should have more leverage in directing individual policies. We are certainly talking about some part of the intention, if I put it this way, and the fact is that when funds go into the integral budget, they find it very difficult to follow, so they come from an address, and then they get lost in that single bag, and then there are individual policies that we find that, from the strategic demographic point of view of Slovenia and its development in the future, it is much more difficult to direct. Within a demographic fund that has clearly defined priorities and needs to achieve certain objectives, this is certainly easier to drive. One of these sources may be an increase in the share of dividends earmarked for this, and other sources may also be direct transfers from the budget itself or other dedicated resources. One interesting and for our concepts, so in the SMC we consider not a resource used enough, but also the exploitation of natural resources. Just recently, we were talking about banning the production of certain natural raw materials in the northeast of our country, without having a broader debate as to the consequences of all this. My personal opinion is that if we find that the acquisition of some natural wealth in a way that is not ecologically and environmentally disputed can mean some potential additional resource for some demographic fund, then we should not just give up certain resources at night and because of some likeness, because it seems so cool because we have not done enough broad consideration to give up certain resources. In the area of natural resources, there is something else. As it is said, one is the state forest, and then there is the issue of heat that we produce, and electricity, and we could probably find a lot more. So the debate in this sense is right that it is open, and I believe that we will be able to discuss this very much. However, it is slightly less common for such a very important and strategic law to appear on the part of the opposition, any such as a parliamentary law, because I think it must come from the Government, absolutely must have a lot of calculations in the back, some economic analysis that evaluates as many aspects as possible not to take any step too much or too little. In the final stage, the Government itself, when proposing such a very important law, must seek as wide a consensus as possible. Not only politically, but also in the broadest possible sense with all stakeholders involved in this issue. I think there is still a lot of work ahead of us, but above all, it seems important to me how we can ensure the independence of the functioning of such structures, which will govern the state's silver, we can also say gold. We will not miss anything if we rename it gold, or what is left of the cycles that we had, such and other, privatisation or rehabilitation cycles. If we just look at a half-life when the banking system is restored. In fact, I look forward to the results of the investigation commission on the functioning of the DUTB, where we will also see how different ways we can manage state property and, after all, the country's claims as such. It is therefore absolutely important that the structure of the operation or management of the demographic fund operates transparently and is not subject to the daily impact of policy, not at all because the provision of financial resources is not the solution for today or tomorrow, but will only be visible in 10, 20 or more years. It is therefore crucial that these structures of the karst are stable. If I finish. Many times in the National Assembly, we talk with increased decibels, we are very sharp toward one another, and we are especially looking for what separates us, and we are separated or cannot be united. Then it happens that some law goes through the legislative procedure, and then some elections happen, and a different political majority is formed, and those are the most controversial political solutions, right at the same time, because those new political suits that come in are practically not touched. So I hope that in the search for the most optimal solution for the demographics of Slovenia in the future we will experience enough wisdom and also political dialogue, that we will be able to listen and that on the other hand we will be able to set up a structure that will not be subject to such or other political fluctuations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The text shall first be given by the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be brief. However, I am not even sure whether I would like to speak to 17 or 18 Members, as far as we are still concerned today, as we all say, it is an important topic for us. But nevertheless, I would like to say two sentences on the subject, on what has already been exposed several times, starting around the funds we are earmarking, and on the other hand, the budget will be without them. We are addressing – of the approximately 250 million that the country receives annually from dividends, we are addressing half of these funds with our proposal or even less. The 2018 data is that these companies, which we have appointed, had a core demographic investment in 2018 for a total of 114 million of this profit or dividend. The next 30 million – about a billion and a half have excise duties, so this 2% is another 30 million. And roughly, our estimate is, another 30 million from other sources. We're not in there, we've already mentioned water concessions, they're small amounts, so they're not in there. Not that we didn't know how to define them, but it's a small amount. Unfortunately, like my colleague Han said, we don't have oil. What we got, we're going with that one. However, I must say, this is how we have come to the 160 million, 170 million that we are talking about, which, according to our proposal, should be denied by the state over the next 20 years by this accumulation so that the circus can receive 500 million additional pension funds for the next 30 years. I firmly believe that we have not been unrealistic, that we have also left as much of these profits at the disposal of the country as possible, although I think that the country must provide for the development projects of the few million dividends it receives. In the end, it is possible that only what is repeated, if all, have some sense that we are adjusting with this proposal. We don't set anyone up. But if I give you this debate for the next half hour, as long as it takes, on the agenda, and I'm sorry, I apologize to everyone because we dared to make one marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u97	Replica, Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u98	There is only one thing I would like to replicate to Mr Perič, and perhaps to all those who say that this law will prevent dividends from being paid into the budget and so on, the budget will weaken and will not be able to finance what should be financed. An hour ago, an hour ago, my dears, we were talking about the financial burden of the congregations. All of you, I do not speak there, have spoken of what is yet to be done and taken money from the budget, from the same, and given to the congregations. There's no problem for that. And I was the mayor, and I know exactly what the congregation's tasks are and what the state's given too much. But we only have one bag to fill. There's only one bag. And it is right that we allocate these resources in life, not only that we will enjoy and have some of this bag, but from this bag, and from what we are collecting today, we must also have the next generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word is Luke Moon, get ready Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I'll try to be brief. First, I would like to highlight what has already been said today, the most important thing for the sustainability of the long-term pension system is not economic but really trust. If people don't trust the pension system, they won't pay it. Therefore, the first thing that policy should agree on is that all political parties, regardless of political colour, interest, differences, we advocate a sustainable and public, accurate long-term pension system. In fact, we have the first problem that I will mention when we talk about pensions, namely this structural problem that we are exhausting from the pension fund. We have two types of employees in Slovenia. Regular employees of legal persons on average pay about 450 euros per month for pension insurance. And there are three quarters, or about 750 thousand employees. The second quarter, nicknames, espeii, about 250,000 people who are employed in non-typical contracts, on average, on the average, on the basis of monthly pension insurance, contribute half less than those in regular employment. So, this last quarter, you know, you're on holiday, and here again is the policy of the one who has to set up regulations, who can be the nickname and who can't. Many are espe and are employed by the employer and espe contributes to the average wage virtually half less than if he were regularly employed. So this is one structural problem that needs to be addressed in order to begin to correct the pension picture, and this is the elimination of the chastity. The second aspect to be addressed in terms of the sustainability of the pension fund is the contribution rates. We know and have long warned that since 1996, employers have paid practically half the lower contribution from workers. The employer pays 8.85% for the pension contribution, the worker pays 15.5%. If, as agreed in the previous government, an increase of 0.8% for employers in the next four years had begun, this account would have been paid an additional EUR 400 million to cover the deficit of Zpiz in 2024. These are two structural aspects that we need to discuss urgently, the level of the contribution and the number of reprimands that this country allows or allows. Last time I heard Mr Simic, who is running some kind of de-de-barcation office under the current government, which was speaking in the opposite direction. He said that espionage should be debirocratized in a way that allows them to work for only one employer, which practically means that it eliminates regular employment. Because why would employers hire people if they can hire them through espionage, and then they don't have to pay the hospital, half of them are contributions to pensions, and they don't have the right to leave at any time? This is where this government's going. So it's the opposite of what we should be doing to keep the pension cash registers sustainable. The second aspect of the sustainability of the pension register, however, is this long-term demographic, which is in fact significantly less reliable than what I have just said. Here the problems are known and with the political will to eliminate them, in this other aspect, demographic in 20 years, but in fact the questions themselves are. Okay, we're working on the assumption of this stochastic model that there will be more pensioners. But how much more, when they retire and how many pensions they receive, is really a question. On the other hand, how many workers there will be in 20 years is also a question that depends for the first time on how many people will have children, which is related again to what work they will have, how much fun they will have, what stability they will have in life, and what immigration policy this country will have. I think, although we are now in some historic stage where it is obvious that it is modern to put wires on the border and send an army there, that if we want to have a sustainable retirement allowance in 20, 30, 50 years, we will have to talk a little more rationally about immigration into the country than we are talking about today. And the third aspect. And the economy is like this. I think that the inspiration for the demographic fund for Slovenian politics came essentially from Norway. They have two state-owned funds there. Each is worth about one billion dollars and their pension fund has 9 000 150 companies in 73 countries around the world and is the largest sovereign fund, as it is called, in the world. Can we get close to such a number? Probably not. According to the proposaler's assessment, the initial capital of 1.7 billion in this fund will increase by 2040 to 2.8 billion, it is said to be approximately 300 times smaller than that of Norway, and comparatively smaller will also be the return. Nevertheless, I think that the issue opens up, and this is that we need to start talking over a long period of time in Slovenian politics about whether the people of this country will live only from work or will live on capital. Because in the last 20 years, this country's policy has gone in the direction of giving up dividends on capital, companies have been selling, profits are going abroad and living only on the job. But in this way, the country will be much poorer in the long run, as the Norwegian case shows. They have done the opposite, they have their sovereignty and their prosperity based on capital. I also support this idea in this sense, because we should also start building it and start to wonder how in the situation where we are to start establishing some sustainable domestic ownership. One option is what the Institute for Economic Democracy conference was yesterday, and in the next 10 years, several thousand Slovenian entrepreneurs who are now over 55 are likely to retire, and the question is whether they have a legacy in their companies to run these companies. And the question that opens up here is whether we will create, say, a possibility, a legal option and a stimulus so that employees in these companies can buy companies in the form of joint acquisition from their owners. In the U.S., for example, cooperatives called ESPs employ around 10% of employees in the private sector and the analysis shows that employees in these cooperatives have 10 times as much property as employees in, say, ordinary businesses. This is, say, one moment to go. As I said earlier, I have made some reservations that we have in the party about the possibility that this fund will save the pension fund and so on, but the aspects that I have addressed now, I think, are essential to the debate on this fund. Therefore, if I slowly draw the line, we will support further consideration of this law. Not least because it raises some key questions that we need to answer as a policy and that are absolutely worth giving them time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has Masha Kociper, prepare Dušan Šiško and Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today, in fact, we are here to talk about what and how we will live, when we end up with our own, to call it a working time, is when we are so old that we can no longer work. This is true for those who have already come to this period, as for all of us, and also for those younger of us who are still waiting for it. Will we be lucky to have a normal pension available at that time, or will we, as in some of the worst capitalist, neo - capitalist countries, die for our machines, writing tables, or anywhere else? That's what they say about lawyers, this guy died, and this lawyer, he's still on his desk until he's dead. I hope that's not what's waiting for us. On the other hand, we are also discussing what will happen in this country with all the assets, the remainder of the property that this country still has, shares in companies and state-owned enterprises. This is always a very attractive topic in this house, which is very emotional on the one hand and on the other, each has its own views on it. Today, on both of these important issues, I can see that they are not really interested in any of them. Here, if the camera shows maybe on my left, where the coalition sits, respected colleague Pogačnik is the only one, the only one interested in pensions, and here are two colleagues from SMC. All other pensions and state-owned enterprises are obviously not interested in state ownership. That's why I'm just going to talk to potential viewers, which is true for the citizens who are accompanying this meeting, and in the end the meeting is intended for them, but not for us who are the proponents and this law actually know and know what it is talking about. However, given that my delegation's colleague Starović has already presented the basic characteristics of this law and that the colleagues in the SD have already said a lot, I have come up with four key points, which are the difference between how the regulation of this area is a coalition and how we who are proposing this law are pictured. We will begin with the goal of what the law wants to achieve, what the law of the coalition wants to achieve and what it wants to achieve today, which is represented by the SD and the SAB. The objective of our law today, the law of SD and SAB, is quite clear, namely the co-financing of the pension deficit during the critical period since 2040 onwards, when all calculations show that the pension treasury, as it is now designed, will begin to walk heavily. Everyone here today, the few that are debated by the coalition and the rest of the opposition, for we agree that we have a demographic trend that is not positive, that we have an extremely ageing society, and we also agree that whatever we do with these funds, both funds, not one, not the other, will not fully solve the problem of filling the pension register. You won't. We all know that. But we're still looking for solutions that might at least favor the problem. This is our task and a solution to the budget so that the budget can do other things that it has to do. And if the purpose of our law is to accumulate the funds and then to devote themselves solely to pensions, as it has always been meant for the demographic fund, I can determine for the second law, the law of the coalition, that the goal is very unclear. Only 40% of the funds will be accumulated in that case, which is said to be stored in advance, 60%, dear citizens and citizens, but will already be used in the opposite direction. As opposed to spending on candy that coalition partners got to support this marriage. For family policy, for NSI candy, for older people, for Desus candy, for SMC, and I can't find it, my colleagues will tell, but it's definitely somewhere. And then we'll ask ourselves how this math, as colleague Han said, doesn't count. 'Cause in 2040, it's really not gonna happen. So we're very different about the goal. Our goal is clear, it has always been mentioned in Slovenia, that the demographic fund should be designed to solve the pension problem and be for pensions only. Let's go to the other one, number one on my letter. What's going on with the funds? I have said this, 20 years of accumulation under our law, only after consumption, under the law of the Government of Consumption immediately and, of course, owned by the leaders of this fund, this ownership or management will be explained in particular later. And if I go on top of the biggest problem of this difference right now, it's the way this fund is going to work. Our law is called the Law on Slovenian Demographic Reserves, the Fund for Co-financing of the Pension and Disability System and provides that the resources are to accumulate dividends from state-owned enterprises and reinvest them in this way. This means that ownership does not change, the Republic of Slovenia remains the owner of these state-owned enterprises and shares that we still have in state-owned companies, SDH remains the manager. This has been the purpose of the demographic fund ever since we discussed it. Let's see the law of the government coalition. This provides that the ownership of all state-owned enterprises or all shares of state-owned enterprises is transferred to the fund in one shed. And then, contrary to any principle of corporate business, which criticises both the Supervisory Association and the KPK, this fund will be managed by representatives directly appointed by the Government. Thus, in its vehement practice, the government of Janez Janša will be able - not to say that it is necessary, but this option will be given here - to transfer all the existing assets that we still have in this country, in one stroke to this fund, to ensure full control over the management and management of this fund. And as far as I'm concerned, it's quite possible that in one coat — why go one at a time? – this fund also sells everything we still have in this Republic of Slovenia. If possible, one Hungarian company, so that we don't cash in one by one, and we're looking for owners. I know I'm overreacting, I know things aren't that simple, but theoretically, it's possible. This is theoretically possible, as ownership of all state-owned enterprises is transferred to the Fund and will be free to use it. Easy, easy. Let's see what management is like. Under the law proposed by SD and SAB, this management is decentralised. All possible sales and thus should continue through the National Assembly, a clear political responsibility would be given. According to the proposal proposed by the Government, this fund operates as the owner, not only manages the investments, but it freely disposes of them, it can sell them, as it were said, and virtually all the security guards that separate the management of the state property from the policy are also deleted. These fuses are introduced into the SDH law at the request of the OECD, if you remember, and these fuses are completely ignored here. And I think that's something people need to be reminded of every time. It should also be noted that there is a difference in sources. Under the law proposed by SD and SAB, this fund is also financed from additional resources, totalling 170 million annually, including from water and wood and so on. A coalition fund, which we already do not know how this mathematics will be able to do at the expense of time, does not have any additional resources foreseen. None. So I don't know what's left of it until 2040. And if we look at the appointment of the administration, the composition of the Governing Council tells us much, and then the method of transformation. Right at the beginning of this difference in the composition of the Supervisory Council and the method of appointment tell us that there will be a direct influence of the Government, a ruling policy which, of course, now probably imagines that Slovenia will rule for a long time, and, as we say, both the Supervisors' Association and the KPK warn us that the matter is extremely problematic. I'm going to finish here, I'm going to leave my colleagues some time, but I would say that all the excuses about why we made the marriage, why we didn't make it before and so on, are irrelevant. It is important that we discuss two extremely important issues and that our law, the SD and the SAB, provides an alternative option, and if there is a desire to do so, there is also a compromise. The representative of NSI said, yes, we're sorry you didn't participate in the talks. I regret, however, that they no longer want to participate in the discussions, given that this law is open and that their marriage is yet to come into procedure. We in the opposition now warn: recruitment, attacks on the media, abolition of independent regulators and so on. The Yankee government is very powerful. Just as they do not deal with replacing one agency director after another, but what they do together in a noise of seven or nine agencies and replace everything, I am afraid, and I hope I am wrong that it will also be so ambitious in transferring all assets to this fund, and then I hope that not even in the sale of this property to foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, prepare the Magi Marko Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the government, other present, a nice greeting! Allow me to begin by thanking Mr Mark Pogačnik and Blaž Pavlin personally. It's very important that they're here, so we don't feel like talking to ourselves. Thank you. I would also like to thank Gregor Perič and Monica Gregorčič, but we have talked to you, so with your client, SMC, for many years, so that you know more content than these two, but I am glad that we are not alone. That's the first thing I'd like to say. Second thing. You're absolutely right that this debate about the demographic fund has a beard too long. I must say that I myself had the opportunity to participate even as President of the Social Democrats for a few years when we were in the government together. This is what I am saying to both honourable Members of the SMC, because we, all together, have a historical memory. You know what it was like back then. At the end of that time, we had only five Members of the Social Democrats, and we made it very clear that we do not really have so much diversity as it is most important for us to take care of the crisis that will take place in 20 years. And we agreed with the SMC and the law, and we told Desus that any of them would come sooner, and that they would be accepted later, and that we would fix them. So we have a common history here, and why would we deny it? We tried to do it, but the president's speedy resignation might have moved or not, but the purpose was good. That's like the second thing I want to say. The third thing that, honourable Members, we know, is that we are all burdened by the question that is quite simple: is a policy that often thinks only a step forward and very rarely more than four years, because then the re-elections are even able to think 20 years in advance? Experts can show us all these curves, and we know that there is a real risk in these curves, but those who currently show us whether they are Slovenian or foreign are saying the following. Because of the demographic crisis, which will begin to peak in 20 years and will last from 20 to 30 years, there will be extreme problems. Are we today capable of solving problems that will without affecting the election result in two years? Because if we really accept the real demographic fund, we can't show voters and voters in two years' time, look, this makes life better because it won't. This will only make pensions a little safer in 20 years. And there's something else that needs to be said that there won't be an empty illusion. The demographic fund does not solve the problems of the pension system. The demographic fund does not solve the problems of the pension system, it is just one of the foundations and there will be a lot of other things to be done. But it is one of the essential foundations. We now have a solidarity system, I think it's called the Bismarck system, which is a solidarity intergenerational system, like this. [[shows with gesture]] and also horizontal. And today we must say, hey, we must do something to make sure that we who are paying now are safe — do we realize what we are asking? We also wonder whether it is our duty to make our contributions to the pensions of our mothers, our fathers, because even when they were in the working age, their contributions went to the pensions of their mothers and their fathers, that is, our grandparents. We can't change that now. We have such a system and say, we're going to turn it upside down, which means that those who are now retired will be left without income, without pensions. We have such a system, and we must do everything to make it firm, to keep it safe and to keep the foundations strong. Today, an example has already been mentioned – I think that Mr or a comrade from the Left said – that some countries are fortunate to have more natural resources to use, and these natural resources are given concessions or special contributions. Indeed, those with large amounts of gas at their disposal, oil or anything else are in advantage. This fills some with natural resources. We in Slovenia can be thrilled because we really have a lot of beauty within Slovenia. I do not believe that we will then give a tourist tax for the demographic fund, but it is also possible because beauty is our natural advantage. But we have very few of those classic natural resources. One of these natural resources is the state forest, which unfortunately is very small. I will not ask myself now whether that predecessor – I even think that none of us sitting here today in this room was in the midst of that unfortunate Denationalisation Act, which has simply given the forest to someone else and now we own only a little over 20%. But I think we did something in 2015, although it was not easy for me as a competent minister at the time. Do you imagine that for some time they even told me that I should be more careful to walk away from the sidewalk, that we turned the stupid system of concessions from which the country had very little into a state exploitation of our wealth. Also with the votes of the SMC and Desus, we have caused many others, the SAB, to get 10, 15, maybe 20 million more from the state forests each year. And I know there are a lot of attacks on the state forests now, but I also understand why – because we took that money from someone and gave it to a Slovenian country. Therefore, our suggestion is that the money we took from someone else there goes to the demographic fund. Each year, five, 10, or even 20 million, as we decide. The next natural resource we have is water, that's different. We should be brave enough that the part collected due to the use of water, which is a Slovenian natural resource, goes to the Slovenian Demographic Fund. Now the question is why those who sat before us in Parliament 30 years ago, when it came to independence, did not then put the entire social property in some special pension fund. Why did they allow privatisation in the way that it caused Slovenian tycoons and a lot of other, pydovian barons? But I can't answer that, and the reason is simple — I wasn't in politics at the time, I don't know what our predecessors were talking about at that time, when it wasn't renovated. But there's not much left of this great wealth. I think 12 billion, plus what's owned by local communities, and there's something else. Probably also because some people actually believed undefiledly in that part of the market economy that the market is the best regulator and that everything owned by the country is wrong and harmful. Some may not have had such a fair look, but slightly different, but I'm not going to talk about it now. There's relatively little left of that wealth. Our proposal is that this wealth, which we have left, is not for sale, I am not talking about sale, I am talking about sales, but that from this wealth I have just seen today – Mr Marko, you are more likely to follow it than I am – that the yield of last year on what is managed by SDH, even, I think, 6.9%, this is somewhere STA published, this is a relatively good yield, better than in the old days. [[…]] The capital investment management strategy, which was adopted in one of the governments I was in, I think was led by Mr Miro Cerar at the time, has allowed us to make it clear that we have state property because we want a return. We don't want a 2% return, we want a return like France. And then we want – not all of it – we understand that economic societies need to develop, but – part of the income they give for pensions, for health care, for education. Our idea is not to sell this property forward, but to lock the yield. But then the question is, okay, what does that mean in practice? Will the 50, 100, 150 million that go into the current budget be taken away from the budget in order to make pensioners more secure in 20 years? The answer is simple: yes, that's our idea. But why? Because we believe that, in spite of everything that is currently in the current state, we will reject this epidemic, because next year we will defeat it because it will be a vaccine – because the economic situation is such, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is still able to finance what is absolutely necessary and in 20 years it will probably not. If things are different, we'll be happy, but the forecasts we have at our disposal are bad. And that's why we want to lock this money up and make it available to our explorers. But of course, honourable Members, honourable Members, you all see the problem. We are talking about a crisis that is expected to take place in 20 years. So we are talking about the crisis, which is expected to be in 20 years' time, and of course the question whether policy is generally – this is not only a Slovenian issue – is able to think in the long term, because 20 years is long-term thinking. Today we have put, honourable Members, honourable Members, a proposal for the thinking of the Social Democrats and the SAB on the table. I don't accept the obvious that we haven't been active before. I said – of course I am looking at the MP and the MP of the SMC – we had serious intentions in our common government. You won't hear me talk about that government bad, I won't, because I know what the problems were, what we had to do. We had a serious purpose. You have to admit, even then, it wasn't us who were blocking. We told you what we know, but we didn't make it. But that was also the basis for us putting something on the table today. Therefore, I ask you, honourable Members, not to thrust from your feet into the mud what we have given before you. Give us a chance to keep talking. We do not claim that we are the owners of all the truths in this country or in this world, but give us the opportunity to go forward with the law, we talk, as we have also talked during the time of the government of Mira Cerar, openly, sometimes we have agreed, sometimes not, but then we have renegotiated, but we have openly talked without any bad intentions in the background. And we may come to something – that we will have a demographic fund, which is now the point, respected and respected, that will be removed from politics. I do not want such an important asset to depend only on the ratio of power in Parliament, to the current government, but I always wonder what must probably be the question of all of us: can we make a model where the most important ones have a primary interest? Who are they? These are, of course, current pensioners, these are current employees, who will, when the fund will have to be activated, mostly in an important part of pensioners, and these are also young people. So do we know how to make a model where politics is a little bit more distant, but more codecision rights will be given to these three important social groups? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, get ready for Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u106	Mr President, thank you for saying so. My colleagues, my colleagues, I find it difficult to convince me that it is not going in here more than it is by two candidates for some sort of bargaining, but I would say, stopping the time component of the proposal that has been tabled in the procedure of the National Assembly of the Government, the current coalition. The fact is that policy has been thinking about the demographic fund for some time and that the Pensions and Disability Insurance Act has also foreseen the establishment of the demographic fund in 2012 and then the commitment to establish the fund by 2014 and then the Slovenian State Holding Act on the Conversion of KAD to the Demographic Fund, the flag has also fallen, I would say, by the end of 2015. In fact, eight years have passed and eight years have passed, and it is these two parties, who have led the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proponents of these two laws. And I'm really interested in why in these eight years you failed to prepare a law, a demographic fund, to which the law has bound you. Now that you are not in the government, when one of the key substantive issues in the coalition treaty of the existing coalition was the formation of this demographic fund, you have come and tabled this proposal of the law itself. I don't understand this. However, the fact is that we have always warned in the Slovenian Democratic Party, since 2014, why the demographic fund is not established, even though the law provides for it. You didn't have a valid answer, the fact has always been that within the coalition, which you somehow admitted today, you couldn't unify. Our coalition, that government is. And we have decided to fulfil the obligations we have set ourselves in the coalition agreement. At least in my behaviour, the key pillar of the demographic fund is not supposed to be the Ministry of Finance, but especially the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which has always been under the auspices of the Social Democrats. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were aware of this responsibility for the establishment of the demographic fund, and because of that, after seven years, the government in which you participated did not respond, in 2019 we introduced the law on the demographic fund itself and you rejected it in a uniform manner. So look, it's hard to convince me that there's no background here anywhere else than the reasons you're trying to excuse in some way through today's session. We have also accepted you in the parliamentary group and I think it is right on your part that this effort is that you presented your concept, your proposals. We're very different here in the concept. Last but not least, I think it is important that – and the President of the Government has already said several times, and the Minister of Finance – all the good proposals in the concept of creating a new demographic fund will be taken into account. I am sure that not only in the National Assembly, far from this, are the participants involved, but all good proposals from external stakeholders must also be heeded. The position of the SD Group also somehow pointed out that the post office closed its offices. But do you know what this is about? This is the result of a state-owned property management strategy, which, by the way, obliges me not to know what kind of returns. This strategy for the management of state property was adopted by you, the Social Democrats once again, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members at that time, we have warned that it has been written poorly that there are certain uncertainties. This is exactly what I think is causing the post office to close down, the fact that the strategy forces this society to yield. So sometimes it would be nice to look at some step back, what someone was defending, what it was, but as we have already said in the position of the SDS Group, here it is important that both coalitions and opposition try to, I would say, the programme itself or the law itself on demographic harmony with their proposals to improve. I'm sure you can do that. Unfortunately, I will vote in this law that the law is inappropriate for further consideration. The reasons we've given, I'm sure the concept that she put into the procedure of the National Assembly of the current coalition is better, you've had this opportunity, you haven't taken advantage of it. I still hope that with some suggestions – even on your part, it seems to me that they may be useful to help improve the final version of the law itself. There are a few things in this law that you've drawn up, a proposal, that I don't think are very clear. Let's say you have a DSU for basic demographic investments, even in the presentation yourself, you haven't given any valid reasons why you decided to go to DSU. Then, you troubled ownership, the difference in the proposed concept of our law, your law. Here I think, in your law ownership really remains in the Republic of Slovenia, but with this law you also conquer all rights arising from ownership, or because of who they are. This means that the dividends are automatically transferred to the fund itself, they must be aligned with the SDH manager in front of the assemblies and together. I think that this concept that you are proposing will further confuse the market itself so that the matter itself will be less transparent than if it comes to centralised government of state property and the state property finally begins to be managed from one place. In the SDS Group we are convinced that such a concept is better, the proposal of some such concept of the management of state property from one place was already in 2012 when the Slovenian State Holding Act was somehow formed, then there were some exceptions. This means that the capital company and DSU were then eliminated. On the other hand, we are also listening to the SAB as to how this system is better, how they are doing with transparency, and I would like to point out that the Slovenian State Holding Act, which was approved during the second Janšev government, went to substantially amend the government of Alenka Bratušek, that is, in 2013. But you also went to change it in the work that you are exhibiting quite a bit today, and that is the supervisory council. In 2013, I don't know why, you'll probably know this more, you've decided to change the proposal of the Supervisory Board and withdraw the opposition from the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. You probably need to know the reasons why. This means that the representative proposed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances has been withdrawn, his voting rights withdrawn and, on the other hand, you have given him only open doors to participate or be present at the meetings of the Supervisory Board. I think these are all steps that are talking in this direction, that it's not all the way you're trying to present it in some way. I will say again, I think it is important here that both the position and the opposition participate in the law on the demographic fund, but such actions that have occurred in the past certainly do not. I think that the step of improvement itself can be taken when a proposal for a coalition law is considered. I am sure that this bill will come again to the tables of Members and Members in a very short time, and that we will probably be able to take some good proposals into account here too.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, get ready, mag. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. It is good that colleague Marko is on duty because if he were Grims, someone would probably have already said why the SD didn't set up this fund in 1945. Look, it's a very serious matter beyond the artistic political impression of any of us. It is something that should have been established 15 years ago, and the content of the resulting legislation five years ago. Now that I am listening to this, I remember saying as a young assistant to the indicators of social development in 1995 that we are an ageing society in order to need this fund. I'm also a little surprised at this debate, because some of you are wondering, uh, somewhere you're going to take it to create somewhere. I don't know that capital can be created from the air or I don't know what, from some yeast. You know, because we have some kind of a similar nuclear decomposition fund - because we know we're going to have to break it down at one point. In the same logic, let's say, kid, let's get this fund closed when it comes to concrete, and we'll take it out of the budget. There's one thing we forget. Pensions are essentially a civilizational acquisition, an intergenerational solidarity that has come to us relatively late. My old parents were out of retirement, those peasants got something for the church in the end. In short, pensions only come to us from a generation of our parents, us, about 50 years old. I was also lucky to be sitting in Norway with the State Secretary for State Property, who had over both funds that Luka was talking about, and something else. And I have to say, Rajić and Logar went out after two-fifths, and they didn't care that much. It seems particularly important to me who is qualified to be a supervisor and who is qualified to manage this matter, not from which political quota this person is from. What are we talking about now? We're basically talking about what kind of pension Uroš Prikl will have in 20 years or maybe former President Desus will be able to buy torn jeans because she'll like it if she'll have to go to a Bolshevik market to buy some coto. That's what we're talking about. What is the difference between our proposal and what is now essentially a government proposal? It is that, of course, we go into some concrete partial solution immediately to talk about how we will as soon as possible, because we are already very late, we start filling the bag, and you are talking more about how you are going to get your chairs down, and how the Espe state is going to change supervisors. And that's the difference. After all, as I have already quoted today, as Dr. Ihan put it nicely, “we are all of us” in multitude, and that is why what our Matjaž Han said nicely – that property remains ours. At the same time, in our proposal, there is also a guard to make it more difficult to get when some of you were in a difficult choice when 15 companies were thrown on the table to sell them. At the same time, no serious economic college is serious unless it teaches what a national interest is if you have a country. Not in such an abusive way, of course. The government proposal is said by the former SMC Finance Minister to be a bad idea that does not deserve serious consideration. His colleague, Dr. Bogomir Kovac, says, quote that "the misery of the current political elites in the development strategy and the policy of the country is frightening". With what we propose and what is necessary – it would be good if I had someone to talk to about it – there is, of course, another problem of effective or inefficient management, management of Slovenia. You know, that was Drnovšk's 1996 story, then it was said, and they're going to give a little less to employers, and we're going to get another and a different economy – kid, we didn't get it. Have we learned anything from this? And we have the third mandate of the same Minister of Economy, and the glyphs are not the Minister of Economic Development and Technology. With what we propose, however, it is also – and I will conclude that there is still something left for my colleagues – that it is the best demographic fund, and it will have to be, investment in young people, investment in science, education, research and yes, including culture, and then culture will change here too. And what is our wealth? Our wealth is intelligence. I've seen very little of these last six years in this building, in here. Of course, you would like to walk in the way you would say in Serbia – how is it? – “there can be, there can be, there can be, there can be no, there can be.” You'd be doing it a little bit now that it's done, and it will be done. But you know, with some kind of back-up argument, I know with your approach, I know I won't have a pension, but I can't do a 2-0 Mountain Battalion, and I'm gonna fly into the valley and steal something if I don't have another one. We probably don't want that kind of company.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc, get ready for mags. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, those who are present, I must admit that I feel strange here today in the National Assembly, because in fact the entire right half of the hall is literally empty or in particular one representative of New Slovenia, colleague Pavlin, is sitting with us and the others are not. Obviously, for the right, particularly Janša's SDS, the topic of pensions in the future, or how to provide funds in the future for sustainable pensions, is not an important topic. Otherwise, I really can't explain it to myself. Let me get to the point of what we are talking about today, what we are actually proposing to the Social Democrats and why we are proposing the establishment of this so-called demographic fund. The fact is, as has been said several times today, that since 1996 when pension contributions have been reduced for employers, in some ways the pension box has not been sustainable. This was such a typical neoliberalist measure, which they probably believed at the time would help the economy quickly, for a short period of time, but, as we can see, this measure did not prove to be good in any way in the long run. Employers were slightly or still burdened with the payment of pension contributions, while we eat at the pension register year after year and as long as we can try to replace these funds with injections, so to speak, from the budget. So it's a basic sin, in a way. We Social Democrats have proposed this law on the demographic fund almost in parallel with a government proposal proposing an alternative, a different proposal for a solution to the same problem. However, I would like to say that — there have been a lot of observations today in terms of how you chose this very time and so on — we have been working for a long time in this area. Three years ago, we had a very long, in-depth debate, including a conference of the party that adopted the baselines for the demographic fund, but then, in the then government coalition, unfortunately, as colleague Matjaž had already said before, we did not find any common consensus for the adoption of this fund or for the submission of a proposal for a demographic fund, and then, after that, things were still being prepared, coordinated, but unfortunately, the time was running out and the government fell prematurely. But I don't think it's important right now to somehow accuse each other of who's guilty of not being accepted by this demographic fund, it's important that we step together and find some solution, a solution for the future, a solution for our generations, for younger than us, and for young pensioners. Because, according to all the indicators in 10 years, it will no longer be possible to fill the deficit in the pension register only from the budget. Our solution is that ever-increasing state investment or profits from it would be invested for 20 years in the so-called demographic fund, but that state property would still be managed as before through SDH. So, unlike a government proposal that would transfer all state assets in some way to this new fund, our proposal is that only investments should be accumulated under this fund while management would be carried out, as the OECD has in some way recommended, still under the same procedures as it has so far. Here, too, it is very important that the Social Democrats want, as far as possible, to protect this state property, this state silver, gold from sale. We know that governments in the past, even those more liberal or right-minded, have always favoured the sale of state property for short-term prosperity, could be called that. This is, of course, the biggest mistake we can make, so the Social Democratic proposal assumes that if there is a desire or a need to sell anything, it must be decided by policy – the National Assembly. While corporate property management is carried out through institutions that are designated in Slovenia, or more specifically through the so-called SDH. I regret that, despite the fact that we have really taken a very constructive approach by the Social Democrats, we have presented our proposal to all the parliamentary groups or majority, except for one, almost all the parliamentary groups, we have wanted a further discussion, and we have also proposed that the debate should continue so that perhaps even today's meeting could be moved – the will on the part of the government coalition was not to do so. In recent weeks, they have come up with a proposal on which there have also been a lot of criticism by the professional public, including by the Commission to prevent corruption, for example. I have before me the opinion of the KPK, which says that certain solutions to the government proposal, precisely those which are different from ours, are not acceptable and dangerous. They point to policy interference in the management of state assets and also to a number of other uncertainties or risks that would be present in changes the Government imagines. But, as it is said, it is crucial that we give citizens and citizens some confidence in our pension system in order to ensure the sustainability of this system and that we will also be able to boast in the future, as we have done so far, that everyone in the Republic of Slovenia will still get their pension, even if it is not the best, that this system will continue in the future. One condition for this is that we also provide additional pension funds through the demographic fund, but that is not enough. I agree here with my colleague Luke and my colleague Matjaž, who spoke earlier. That's absolutely not enough. This is a very small portion that would give some financial injection to the pension fund. Nevertheless, there will still be a lot of work to be done to make sure that sufficient resources are made available, because the demographics from year to year are increasing these needs, the pensioners will be lucky, we can say, increasingly. That is why I am even more disturbed by this proposal of the Government, which within this fund would provide funds, populistally, I hope to say, in addition to pensions – but that is not enough – for, I don't know, long-term care, for many other things. As previously said, we would like to give each coalition partner some candy to finally support the proposal. Social Democrats propose to give our proposal a green light for further consideration. I believe that many improvements are possible, and I believe that together we will achieve some consensus and do something good for future generations and also for today's pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, prepare Jani Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleague Pogačnik, given that in your address you have remembered my President, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, when the President of the Government – by the way, she values you very much and respects you – I will also remember your President Janša, who, when Slovenia was difficult, called the troika and called for bankruptcy. We can only guess, and with great certainty, who, if there was a bankruptcy of a country, today would manage our assets. He wouldn't be anything. Thank God it was then the courageous President of the Government, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, who followed seven years of economic growth and today we have assets, we can transfer dividends to the demographic fund for pensions, so that in the period 2040-2070 we can have one part of the problem that will arise, which we know today, we know is somehow mitigating. I don't think it's right that you don't care about us, and we need to be aware that what we sow today is what we want tomorrow. And if we want everything we have today, we're gonna have a headache tomorrow. These are simple but true apostles. That is why, together with colleagues from the SD, we have drawn up a legal proposal on demographic reserves in which these assets of our assets will be accumulated first, and this for a period of 20 years, we are talking about dividends, we are talking about the resources of the water fund, our timber wealth. Yesterday we discussed the digital service tax. These are all possible revenues from this fund, and it is right that if we know that these problems exist today or that they will increase in the future, that we will start to act in time and that we will act with what we can do. It is also right that the funds are earmarked for pensions. We already know from the budget that an additional €1 billion is allocated to the pension fund and that by 2040 this deficit, which is due to an increased need for payments – i.e. less active people – will have two poor forecasts – this gap will only increase and more will have to be paid. And if we do not act today, we will have a headache in the near future. This is why we have also proposed a very transparent way of managing this fund. We have proposed that the National Assembly to the Supervisory Board of this Fund appoint nine members from the National Assembly to appoint four members on a proposal from the Government, that four members also have representatives of civil society, i.e. representatives of unions, representatives of pensioners, representatives of young people, and one member on a proposal from the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which would ensure the control of the opposition. I do not understand why anyone would oppose such a fund, especially since we know that in the future, there will be a number of challenges in the coming decades, including long-term care, with a more expensive health system resulting from more expensive methods of treatment and ageing, as well as an increased number of payments from pension funds and smaller payments. We are essentially addressing the problems of the pension register with this proposal, and we are also trying to solve them in one part. I therefore call on all fellow Members to support our proposal, which we have tabled with fellow SD colleagues, so as to enable the legislative process to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. There's been a slight change. Now he gets the word "magic." Bojana Muršič and Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today, it seems to me that we are convincing certain people here. We speak mostly to the Social Democrats and the SAB, and it just seems a little humiliating to me. They'll also talk from the SMC Party, but it seems to me that it's just us, and I find that extremely unusual, but let's just leave it. The demographic situation is changing, Slovenia is, of course, becoming a long-lived society, and in the coming years, there is also an increasing imbalance or imbalance between generations. The number of older and working people will increase. Nor do the trends in fertility in the coming years are the most promising, and I find it difficult to believe that the proposal for free kindergarten for the other child who has taken part in the National Assembly today will raise the birth rate of the parents who will decide on this. It is important to point out that less working people will take care of pensions and other social and health expenditure. Our responsibility, all of us here, is to provide pensions for our craftsmen, and therefore this proposal for a demographic fund is also ours. It may be true, as has already been mentioned several times, that we are waking up somehow late, but this is a long-lasting process and a lot of the state's assets have already been owned and waiting for it to take place. The solutions proposed by the Social Democrats are therefore: the establishment of a reserve demographic fund; this fund is transformed into a KAD for the purpose of co-financing pensions, accumulation in a 20-year period and fertilisation thereof. It is said that for 20 years the funds will accumulate and only after that time will the funds be able to be used. The appointment or formation of this contingency fund would lead to the eventual end of the use of total funds for current pension spending. Key companies in the State Solvency are protected from privatisation, including dividends, incomes and potential purchases. Everything is accumulated and removal is not possible except in agreement with the National Assembly. Additional resources are also established or additional resources are provided, such as dividend shares, then 2% of excise duties and 30% of concessions from water use. I certainly believe that the proposal we are proposing is very important for further pensions, for our apprentices and for pensions after a year. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli's got the word, and she's gonna get the word "Monika Gregorčič" behind him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you, President, for your word. Besides, I don't have much time. I'm counting on time-sharing. Basically, you know, dear fellows, there's one other matter of concern here. Many young people no longer trust in the country, in fact in this pension system. Because some young people want as much money at this time as possible, instead of thinking about what will happen tomorrow. Because he doesn't trust him, he just doesn't trust him and he doesn't trust him to even get his pension. That's very sad. Now, at this point, this is happening. Because when I talk to young people, this problem is very much present. The demographic strategy system, the one on the table here, I think is very well prepared, is real, and I would say, is also possible. It's mandatory here this accumulation, I think it's right, so many years must be without the funds being drawn, and I see it as very positive. In this way, we also protect our national silver. Those people who were constantly accusing themselves of selling state-owned enterprises – now it was a clean opportunity for them to be able to see at this very moment that we wanted to protect them. At a time like this, we want to protect. I think – that is, in my opinion, I can also say in an expert opinion as an economist – that this too will not be enough. That won't be enough. It will urgently need to be extended in my opinion, as colleague Gregor said, a working time. Because that's not gonna work out either. We've been living longer and we can't demand that we're practically at peace for more time than we're going to do. So once you have to understand that it's going to be here, something needs to be said about this thing. Our proposal makes it possible and, of course, guarantees that at least largely it remains state-owned what is state-owned and that the government law allows for the privatisation of everything we still have. We need to understand that. It is said that the law that the Government has drafted, the law that is prepared on their part, allows privatisation and alienation to take place in a moment. It does, but I don't think that's what we all want. I almost think that citizens should decide whether to sell or not to sell or also to totally privatise what we and our fathers and our mothers have been building with stings for so many years. That's how I think I'll give you some thought. I don't think it can be a decision at this point, in this option, on the limit, if I say so, of the irresponsibility that has prevailed because of the web of circumstances, not because of another. I don't think it's fair, it's not fair, and it's harmful. I suggest that everyone here really is together – otherwise there is none but three and I am pleased that they are here, but – please give it a nice thought, think sustainable and not opportunistic. That's what I'd say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word, and Alice Jeraj is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Maybe first, given that Friday afternoon and that we're actually sitting here a little bit earlier, but there were not all of them, I would have completed this list, because somehow those before me who listed who are all missing and who is not interested in this topic today have leaked information that there are no colleagues from the Left and no colleagues from the LMŠ, so let's get all the information on who's sitting here today. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Desus, too, like that. That's it. But we will also bring this meeting to a close today and earlier, I think, until the end of this debate, which I think is very important, because this topic can be discovered or bring other important aspects to the agenda. Of course, ensuring a long-term stable pension fund is a key primary objective. Mr Han, you said at the outset that you had prepared the law with the client of the SAB, that you had coordinated it together because you had the same view of solving this problem. In my opinion, you have not only the same view, but you have the same or the same interests. But that's a little bit more on the next page. According to my opinion, the law has been written rather imprudently or perhaps vaguely, complicated or fragmented. Or is it not its content, its key content such as this? In fact, if we look at paragraphs 17 and 18 and also paragraphs 19 here, there are so many constant sources that, in my understanding, they will not go into their own fund, but they will be the source of the supply of dividends alone or of these companies, which are listed in Article 17. Further resources are then listed in Article 18, six, seven additional resources, to name only, for example, 30 % of the capital investment dividends received, which are defined as strategic, 50 % of the investment dividends as important, then 70 % of the dividends received and purchases that are not underlying demographic investments, 2 % of the sum of excise duties, 30 % of the total of the taxes collected from the exploitation of water resources. These are just a few percent of the benefits listed, very inconsistuous at first sight. I couldn't explain why and why you decided to do that. Maybe the proposer, if you say why 2% of the sum of the excise and no, I don't know, 3 or 4 or 5 or 10. I'm afraid that these provisions are somehow one such choice of musical desires, I might say. As for the investments of the fund itself in Article 19, I understand that these will be investments that will be transferred to the fund, namely the Blue Insurance Company, the Lottery of Slovenia and Krka, the drug factory. And here we are again asking why you are and why you are not. I don't know, explain or answer to me, given the knowledge of certain economic and political backgrounds, it's kind of in the outline, but I'll be happy if you can throw it away. Then also in Article 17, which is the main demographic investment that will bring dividends, 100 % of their dividends or returns will be the source of this demographic fund. This means not only that dividends will be locked down, but that these investments are also locked in the long term. Therefore, in the event of market fluctuations, it will not be possible to react properly or sell shares if market conditions dictate that this would be more smart and rational. Again the question why there is a specific insurance company Triglav, why there are Slovenian state forests, why there is NLB, which we know has already been sold, the state share, to a certain extent, the insurance company Sava, and Telekom Slovenije, and Luka Koper. The answer is somehow in the sense that this preserves the national interest that I have also mentioned in the position of our Group. However, this national interest is nothing less than the interest of some established economic and political ties to continue to operate in a way that has been stable and that is still in operation. We are talking about human resources, human resources connections, the sharing of certain jobs with privileged or precisely defined persons, structures. These are the levers of power that these informal structures still have today, and with this law they want and intend to preserve. And when I said that SAB and SD are pursuing the same interest, in fact, when you signed this bill, you literally self-discovered yourself, if I may say so. I'll figure it out. In view of the fact that the articles and the listed companies and the shares to be the source of the funding of this fund are listed in very ad hoc terms, as stated above, in my opinion, the law is indeed complicated, vague, fragmented, imprecise. But maybe that's the final purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj is not [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] We're moving on to this final part anyway. Here you go, Proposer Sonibo Knezak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you, Chairman. Two brief comments on one set of questions which Mrs Gregorčič has now raised. I don't mean to read. It just means she didn't read the law. Read all you've been asking yourself, what are the underlying demographic investments, possible market fluctuations, all of this is explained. If we took the time to read it, there would be no such questions today. Maybe just this to get me to talk. Investments of the Fund, paragraph 19, will be transferred to the fund. If I were to follow this matter a little bit, I'd know they already own the fund. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Replica, Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u122	I'm sorry, but the fund doesn't exist yet, so they can't still be owned by the fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a general part of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. He wants to speak with a representative of the Magnificent Government. Peter Ješovnik? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u124	Vice President, thank you. The government gave its written opinion, which was clearly explained. That's where we made the reservations we saw in the opposition proposal. I've taken it here myself, and some of the parliamentary groups, this opinion of the government, and we have nothing to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Sonibo Knezak also has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, thanks to those individuals who have persisted in this subject today, I think they are more than important. There have also been some constructive proposals, a light of hope, expressed in the end by Comrade Pogačnik of SDS, that despite the fact that they will prevent us from going with our proposal to a broader public debate, they will try to take a few proposals into account. If I'm going to experience this, it's going to be fine. Once again, why the bill? The required need for the establishment of this fund is within 24 years of the decision to reduce half of the pension contributions to employers. The billions of deficits that will increase over the years are due to this law. The key reasons are four, I have mentioned them several times: demographics – trends are clear; the second is legality; our bill follows the already adopted solutions in the ZPIZ-2 and the USDH-1 and ZSOS; and the third is the principle of the social state. And for future generations, we must make sure that this country is still a social one. Therefore, this law, which also gives young people the hope that 20 years from now this pension system will live to provide pensions. In short, what has already been said several times today — trust is extremely important. This pingpong, that we are all guilty – of course, every current policy that has been in the National Assembly for years – is to blame for its strong delay in this area. Social Democrats too are aware of our responsibilities for part of this. This was also the reason why all the work done so far has been brought together and one proposal for public hearing. Part of this public hearing was done, it was well received. Unfortunately, the government proposal did not go through this public hearing. Otherwise, it was not a meeting of the Economic and Social Council, because it was not properly convened, there was some information, in short, another speciality, such as the entire mandate of this government. Finally, I firmly believe that we need to look for a social consensus in order to change such a law, that is 80 plus more votes in the National Assembly, because it is important for everyone. It is not difficult to understand this law, it is very simple, we are addressing a fundamental problem: a financial deficit. We do not transfer assets, we provide one part of the financial deficit. One piece. If I'm purely plastic, the next 20 years would be the accumulation of €170 million that we take from the country from dividends and other sources, so that we can receive pensions for the next 30 years, after 2040, somewhere between 400 and 500 million. For the next 30 years. Members asked, as soon as he came to Parliament, why, what was the reason that politics was not able to settle these important matters for all of us long ago. I got the right answer today. What a colleague from SMC said in her discussion earlier – that there was already a very strong consensus but they could not agree on management and control. Well, we are there, which is the essence of the difference between our proposal and the government's proposal. It is about control, governance, setting up some mastodon, which will manage over 8 billion state assets, not to say they are simplifying their replacements, setting up their loyal ones, by making 60% of the substantial amounts they will receive, for current consumption and only 40% for the state fund. By comparison, with significantly smaller inputs, our proposal for a law will provide almost once more resources to the state budget or to the deficit in the Zpiz cash register than this proposal sent by the Government. How important this is to the current pensioners, that one, I think, is tossing sand in the eyes. For rare current pensioners, for those who will enjoy this pension after 2040. What I would like to point out, however, is that, of course, the government will take advantage of the fact that Desus is likely to remain in the coalition for some time now by fulfilling a promise they have been promising for years and years, but in fact, the state of the pensioners is completely unrelated. I hope that we have also managed to convince someone by this proposal that we are serious, in particular, to confirm ourselves at the vote on Tuesday and to put this proposal to further discussion. Although my experience in the past six months has not given me any optimism for seven months. Once again, on this occasion, I thank all of you for your attention, those who have insisted. And it's a nice weekend for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see there's still interest. So we're gonna start the procedure. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposaler, Sonibo Knezak and the representative of the Government, please sign up by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Three reported. First he gets the word Vojko Starović. Five minutes for the debater is available.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you. I won't spend that much. I didn't even mean to sign up, it's just that somehow the last words, the last of the debaters have challenged me a little bit. Let's get this straight. We also thought to put forward our proposal concerning the demographic fund, the demographic reserves. Then we saw that SD was also preparing, and somehow we got together. We wanted to contribute to a solution, a marriage that would benefit everyone and be a good foundation. See, on a proposal from the government, the professional public has clearly and loudly replied that it is driven by the principles of corporate governance, which are driven by the principles of the OECD, and the KPK Commission has also announced that corruption is also possible. And so we decided to give one marriage that would be a better foundation that had already been prepared. Otherwise, some of the discussers who participated in the drafting of the law, because they were in the previous coalition, ruling, they said they had no idea of anything now, it was all wrong, but no matter what, the politicians were just policemen. Let's be statescapable, I appeal to everything again, let's go from one foundation and build something that's good for everyone. In fact, like colleagues from SDS and SD and everyone found that this demographic fund does not solve the issue, it does not solve the pension system. We're gonna have to go to reform. We will have to reform the entire pension system, including as far as working age is concerned. We're gonna have to cut into other things too. But one of the things is the demographic reserve that can help us to move forward normally and that these generations and future generations will trust this system so that we can take care of older people. For those of you who can't take care of themselves anymore, which was the idea from Bismarck onward. This is a flow system outside this system we're not going to solve anything. It is clear, however, that the second solution is what says what I know, professional, not only economic, but also other professions – it is on us, we have great reserves in productivity. We have too low productivity. There too, higher wages mean higher contributions, which all of this enables us to do. And on this we have to build, on science, on education, on all these things and on everything where the state can allow us to be more productive, that the institutions work, that we are better. Because if we make better infrastructure, companies will work better, wages will be higher, productivity will be higher. So in all these areas. Just what's left of the former social property – I've only been here a little bit of age and I've been working in the previous system and we've also been creating and contributing – we've somehow put it on some funds, into the country and then we've privatized it, we've sold it, we haven't built it. In my opinion, that's just my opinion, we didn't build in the right way. We used to have big companies, the economies of scale gave out, now we've split everything into small things, sold everything. So we've got a problem here somewhere. But that means if we have these problems, we have reserves. And let's step in together. I think that by this law I thank the SD that it has prepared a very professional and very ready reason on which we can actually build demographic reserves or a demographic fund, but it is a much better basis because it is consistent with corporate governance and does not interfere with state property, but only reserves bring from it. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. They are no longer registered, so I am concluding the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 27 October, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting's timing. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 21st meeting of the assembly, which we will continue on Tuesday, 27. Ten. 2020, at 9 a.m. I wish you a safe trip home. Stay healthy this weekend.
