ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 16th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Franz Kramar, Predrag Baković, Primož Siter from 10.30 a.m. to 13 p.m. and Bosniak Koražija until 10 a.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 11. On the day-to-day basis, this is for discussion on the reply of the Prime Minister, Marian Sarz, who is handling the current affairs, to the business question of the existence of smoke in connection with the debilitating state in the public health system. At its 15th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Sarc to the question of Iva Dimic concerning the state of concern in the public health system. I give the floor to Iva Dimic for further explanation of the proposal for a discussion on the response of the current government president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u2	Your Honor! It is not often that we should have a debate on the response of the current government President and at the same time have an elected new mandate. In today's debate, I certainly expect a debate on the situation created during the year and a half of the term of office of the current government President, Marjan Sarca. Of course, I would like all Members to see together in the future, what we can do in two years and how we can arrange the health system to be public, sustainable, quality and, above all, accessible to all those who need these services. Slovenian health care is in a situation where the system is running at all levels. The situation is called for change and action. In Novi Slovenija we note that both the professional and the Ministry of Health under the leadership of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc, who carried out the current business, situation and situation were not at stake. In the last eight years, Slovenian health care has been the priority of saving eight ministers and four government presidents, including you, Mr Sarec, the President of the Government, who is currently in business. In recent months your government has increased the number of patients who are not waiting long in waiting lines, these are those who are waiting above the limit, to 75 000, according to the National Institute for Public Health. There has been a shortage of medicines for cancer patients, and patients are still receiving chemotherapy in corridors where they are lying and eating. Public institutions deal with the lack of medical personnel, as well as the lack of doctors and their departure abroad. In response to your response, the respected President of the Government, who conducts ongoing business to have more doctors and health personnel in Slovenia, also responded to the Medical Chamber, which keeps records of doctors. They put you on a lie. Sadly, however, the promised law on long - term care has been limited to promises. In a year and a half, you didn't stand up for patients and eliminate waiting types. You had the power and influence to resolve the unsustainable and human situation at the gastroenterology clinic if you asked those responsible for the solution and had a strong enough desire to help patients with cancer. The patients answered themselves and said that it was an unsustainable gastroenterology clinic in the basement. In addition to the severe illness she has brought there, they are faced with inappropriate situations that are not encouraging. Full hallways with patients who sneeze, cough, cry, despair. They get food rations in the hallway because they don't have rooms and rooms. This is not appropriate and does not meet the standards, respect for human dignity and the right to privacy. Cancer medicines have a special smell that is not pleasant. They don't even have windows in the basements to air the rooms properly. Such conditions are unsustainable, not only for patients, but also for doctors and healthcare professionals who treat and take responsibility. In Novi Slovenija we are aware of the distress of all patients. Our actions and efforts are directed towards them. We want to improve public access and effective health care. Improving the public health system and removing waiting types will continue to remain the priorities of New Slovenia. Slovenia is too rich a country to die in waiting lines. Patients should have the right to a doctor, not the right to a waiting line.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Marjan Šarc, who conducts ongoing business, for an additional explanation of the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I have to apologize first for leaving the session. Because I have death in my family. Don't let anyone tell me I'm not here again. Mr. Horvath always says he's saddened that I'm not here. Your opening argument, Mrs. Dimic, did not surprise me. I also expected your description of the situation, frankly. Black conditions, catastrophic scenarios, almost cataclysm you've painted in your homes every question addressed to me. I was wondering if you guys were deliberately or deliberately doing something wrong to doctors. You may not have been fully aware, but you were actually criticizing them. I don't risk much predicting that your future tone and discourse will be inappropriately sweeter, that on the day of the election of the new government, your rhetoric will lose its edge and become hopeful that the health system will slip away from the brink of collapse, all of this overnight. As I have done several times before, I could also list the measures and actions that have been taken today, but I know that this time, just as in these seventeen months, I would have remained hearing too much, so I would prefer to express some of my hopes and wishes. I hope and wish that health care would remain public. But I admit that when I read your intervention law, I gave up that hope. You wanted to pave the way for the privatization of health care. I conclude that on purpose, but I am pleased that your marriage proposal, only at first glance, is well liked, has finally been withdrawn. You must have realized that you could only afford it as an opposition party. With this withdrawal, you at least indirectly admitted that it was unrealistic or that it had financial effects, even though you claimed otherwise. In your client, you promote private health care as a healthy competition for the public. On one occasion, you also felt that the market should be allowed to regulate itself. There was talk of “the invisible hand of the market”. When it comes to health and other things, I can't agree with you, and I'll never be able to. For I am sure that a clear distinction between public and private is necessary, and that it is erased, denied, or sometimes even inadvertent, may even be harmful. In Germany, which you like to refer to so much, they don't, say, allow it. I know. I'm a Utopian. You're not gonna draw that distinction between public and private. But I wish we could end cases -- I'll describe one. At the same time, an orthopaedic doctor who works in a hospital has his own private afternoon infirmary. At the hospital where he works, he would have waited a year for the first checkup that he would have just answered me if he needed surgery, say, an ankle or not. Therefore, I am to be ordered by the same doctor in his private afternoon infirmary. He's going to operate on me, of course, at the hospital. And you know what, so I skipped everyone who's waiting for this doctor's first checkup to find out whether the surgery is yes or no. There's a lot of cases like this. When on Monday, the honourable Member, you wondered how we had no confirmed infection with the Coronavirus. Well, now we've met him, and I hope you're pleased that Slovenia has him too. But I want and I hope that health care will receive a financial injection, because we really don't spend enough on it. But since you're predicting an increase in the rate of contribution, I'm going to add a wish to you that you will know this without prejudice to the net income of the socially weak, and I wish you good luck with the unions and employers. I imagine you'll only need it with the first, i.e. employee representatives. I hope and wish that you will be able to move towards the operation of the health register, let's say that hospitals will be allowed to leave programmes for which they have too little patients, and to redirect these funds to programmes for which patients are very large. They can't do that right now, according to hospital directors, and they're pointing to the ZZ. And then, I hope and I wish that you would not exclude doctors from the single pay system, that you will not do so even in return for two years of peace, which the union has offered us. There's a lot more to it, and I could count it for a long time. However, I want Tomaž Gantar to be more successful in the second, so that he can endure to the end this time, for the first time after eight months and five days he realized that he was not going. He said, "There comes a moment when you can't see the way out. I have assessed that we cannot adopt reform in this way. At some point it didn't work anymore.« I hope this doesn't happen again. Good luck, Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, who conducts current affairs, Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues! I found out yesterday, Mr President, that you have a death in your family, so, frankly, on behalf of the Group of Members, my sincere condolences. I understand you have to leave. But I don't remember ever having to do a very big job here in this room, why you're not here, maybe at the time of the adoption of the budget, I don't remember. I'm sure you have a magnetogram that you've read and seen my statement because I missed your presence. I don't think you've ever thought of anything, like I'm not going to say anything. First of all, thanks to all the colleagues and colleagues who have made this debate possible today. I believe that you have not voted in favour of New Slovenia, that you have voted in favour of actually facing different opinions in a few hours and trying to find some guidance, some solutions to improve the health system. We have a problem with that. Yes, 209,000 people today are waiting for a review or a health service, reports the National Institute for Public Health, which is not run by Nova Slovenija. Today, 75,000 people, these are the latest NIZ data, waiting over the limit. And this morning, I heard from radio reports that Nova Slovenije has the best economic programme. Of course, probably because we advocate the socio-market system of the economy, the social market model of the economy, we are certainly not defending and we are fierce opponents of turbo capitalism as well as of socialism. Why am I talking about the economy now? Because the prerequisite for a well-functioning economy is a healthy society. Is it normal for a hospital to be this long? Normally, if a person is sick and it's not his turn to review, to intervene at some normal time, then he's in hospital, and this absence, this compensation has to be paid. To a greater extent, I am talking about the economy. As for New Slovenia's perceptions, that we advocate privatisation or whatever, because I don't know anymore, the privatisation of health care. It's not true, and it's not true for a hundred years. New Slovenia has always advocated and will always advocate a robust public health system. But if you want us to assume that we've privatized something, let's see the numbers, they're real. In 2009, Slovenia had 53 private doctors, they were not concessionaries, they were private doctors. In 2019, this is last year, and she had 142 private doctors. The biggest increase was in 2017, 2018 and 2019. That's statistics, you can say he's lying, but that's the data they're holding. Otherwise, up to 142 private doctors can come quickly and we go after Slovenia and count them. Mr. President of the Government, who is running errands, why is colleague Iva Dimic fighting so hard to improve the health system? Yes, because she also had one very serious personal experience. She'll tell herself about yesterday. And her question at the January meeting of the National Assembly also referred, Mr President, to your answer to her question at the December meeting, which was the 14th meeting, on 16 December 2019. At that time you said, but now I am reading a magnetogram, I do not think: “Secondly”, you say, Mr President Marjan Sarec, “Secondly, as patients receive chemotherapy in the hallway. Lack of space is a problem. The premises of the gastroenterology clinic are old and protected under monumental protection, but an investment is under way at another location to unload these premises. The deadline is April 2020." So, next month. The end of my reading of the magnetogram. Mr President, Mr Marjan Sarec, we have gone to check where, for God's sake, this location where this investment is going, and we have not found it. Now it's still a 10 o'clock opportunity for you to explain this to us. Yes, we all have great concerns, especially since yesterday, when the first patient with a new coronary virus has also been detected in Slovenia. Now imagine the patients standing, standing every day or sitting at a gastroenterology clinic in the hallway, five to six of them, getting therapy, one way or another, and in the middle hitting the coronavirus. You can say I'm dramatic or anything, but this is real life. And yes, some governments have responded significantly differently to this pandemic, which has just affected us, and we ourselves know that it affects us about every four years. I don't want to embarrass your name here or anything. My duty and the duty of the Slovenian Member is to warn because it is not a disease if it is a pandemic. In fact, all subsystems, in particular the economy with which I started this debate today, can fall down and surely be paralysed. As far as the obvious is concerned, I like that you listened to us. I told the speaker yesterday that, on 8 January, we had introduced into the parliamentary procedure the law on intervention measures to stabilise the public, not the private, public health system. We have only submitted it, the copyright of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. Of course, a new situation arose. A new coalition has emerged, and it seems fair for us to withdraw this law, bring it into line within the coalition. If he's acceptable to the entire coalition, he'll move on, if he doesn't, but he'll stay in the drawer. We are convinced, however, that it contains really intervention measures to shorten waiting types. Moreover, during this time we listened to some of the Members' groups, including the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarc and others, and wrote down what comments they had made. We have been in contact with the professional public all the time also outside Slovenian borders, especially where the health system works well, and we will put an improved law on the coalition table. Then we'll talk. I can argue that we know how to talk, and I also hope that we can make a deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. Vojko Starović, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The situation in Slovenian health care is deteriorating. So that we don't just speak populistally, think about it, take the data from the EHCI, the Euro Health Consumer Index. This is a European independent institution measuring the quality of health care in 36 countries in Europe. Slovenia fell by 5 places from the upper half in just one year, from 2017 to 2018, from 16th to 21st place. We were overtaken by the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Estonia. Austria, with which we like to compare ourselves, is in 9th place. Although Slovenia is commended in the ECCI report for its treatment of hepatitis, diabetes and cardiovascular disease. It is already known that Slovenia is at the top of countries with the lowest rate of infant mortality in the world. We have also successfully introduced an e-reception from eHealth. However, the results of treatment in a stroke are low, somewhere in the middle, in the treatment of cancer. The lower estimates, however, are largely due to poor access to health care due to waiting periods. However, we are consistently under-estimated in the inclusion of patients in decision-making and in the availability of quality data for hospitals. Clearly, the health system does not follow the growing need for health services, both in the area of financing and in the field of efficient organisation and staffing. We are aware that health care is one of the fastest growing industries in the world. In our case, however, we have an increasingly low share in the social gross product. In 2014, 2015 and 2016, this share was still close to the OECD average of 8.8%, then fell to 8.2% in 2017 and in 2018 to a total of 7.9%, for last year no data are available. It just doesn't work. In addition, the share of public health funding is decreasing from 6.4% of GDP to 5.8%, which was 2010 and 5.8% in 2018. On the other hand, the ZZZS, our public health insurance company, ended 2018 with an excess of revenue over expenditure of EUR 32 million. Now find out who can. Here the truth needs to be pointed out in a loving way that politics and the Government do not have any significant influence on the ZZS. It is ruled by the 45th Assembly and the Governing Board, since leadership, pension organisations and trade unions have the greatest influence. The government has only four representatives in the Assembly. The ZZS pursues only two objectives to operate without loss and that every citizen has a doctor. And how do they address the need for increased health care? With the plan of services they pay and the time needed for individual examination by a personal physician. This is how the ZZS calculates and pays hospital treatments according to a system that is 15 years old. When we were with the Health Committee in UKC Maribor, we were told that they do services according to plan and only those who are paid, so they have no losses. When they complete the plan for each service, for example in September, the services simply stop, although they have time, staff, premises and equipment. That's crazy. In the case of personal physicians, however, they simply increase the standard to the doctor, and this is it. How, then, do doctors cope with the dissatisfaction of such bureaucratic receptions? Even by being threatened with punishment. In this way, the CFSP grants all operators just so much work that they are not too lost. Because hospitals are public, they'll survive. Parliament, however, adopts an emergency law and allocates additional funds, such as, say, at the end of 2017, € 136 million. We also have an official interpretation of this Fire Act on the table today. In contrast to our approach, the Oslo Health Conference report underlines that the past financial crisis has been best managed by the countries that have invested in public health – Sweden, Finland, Austria. The International Monetary Fund has also changed its long-term faith and the current assessment that each euro country invested represents 0.7 euros in economic growth. According to new calculations and new standards, each euro invested from the country will yield 1.5 euros in economic growth. Investing in health is thus undoubtedly useful for the economy. Dr. Martin McKee, a professor of public health in England, who is one of the world’s leading experts, considered the Slovenian health system appropriate but too complicated. It should therefore be one of the objectives of simplifying the system. He also asked why we should not pool compulsory and voluntary insurance? Our doctors’ assessment is also that the system is too complicated and that bureaucratic procedures take too much time to devote to patients. Therefore, if we are to maintain and develop effective health care, it is obvious that the reform of the whole system is more than necessary. In fact, we are all united in this, and we have agreed for about 15 years, but nothing happens. Why not? Looks like the situation's working out for someone. We have to ask ourselves: “Cui bono?” Who cares if things don't move? Maybe suppliers, pharmacists who take 22% of a medical cake, insurance companies, public health insurance companies dedicated to doctors – among the 100 best paid public servants there are 90 doctors – or those who are obsessed with privatisation, who do not miss any opportunities, no doctor or nurse distress, no mistake in health care to whisper this solution? Despite this, all Western research, based on their experience over the past 40 years in this area, finds that privatisation is by no means an improvement in the situation. It is also widely known that the American health system, with 17.2 %, is more than once a percentage of the gross social product than we have in our country, with more than once higher income, gross social product per capita in America. So, for health care, they're giving four times as much as we are, and they're quoting less than we are. But dearly and relatively poorly, this system is simply because it is aimed at making profits, not at human health and the population. Doctors themselves are often victims of this system in America, controlled by insurance companies, hospital industrial complexes, and pharmaceutical corporations. To conclude, I would say that our expectations and public health requirements are and will continue to be high, as well as the legal arrangements for long-term care, personal assistance and long-term care insurance, and we have been waiting for this law for more than 15 years. It would increase the supply and accessibility of homes for the elderly and establish alternative long-term care systems such as residential communities for the elderly. This supply at home, home and in these shared homes, is also a strong orientation for Europe. In the SAB, we want each pensioner to be able to pay his pension and spend the fall of his life peacefully. This would also relieve the current and future working generation. Citizens who conscientiously pay for health care and pensions rightly expect that health resources will be distributed in a way that ensures the highest quality, efficiency and responsibility in health care. Our Slovenia, as a social country, has a very good heritage of public health as well as public education and care for the elderly, which is all very important for the well-being and well-being of citizens and citizens. They must not be afraid if they are sick and do not have much money to receive appropriate treatment. Compared with the United States, we do not have to be in charge of half our lives just to heal ourselves or to study at universities. This basic infrastructure of solidarity is our strength, the strength of Slovenia, which must be preserved, nurtured and developed. In doing so, I would like to express my special thanks to all those nurses, doctors and other healthcare workers who insist on maintaining and maintaining a health system that, despite all the problems, citizens trust him much more than the government or our Parliament, who have not done their job, hand in hand. The President of the Government, in his reply to a question from colleague Iva Dimic, who is concerned about the situation at the gastroenterology clinic in UKC, replied that this was no longer his business because he had resigned. However, I am afraid that the content and the way in which the necessary changes are to be applied precisely because of the withdrawal of Marjan Šarc will not be very attractive. I will not discuss the attitude of the President of the Government to a fellow Member and, worse still, to a health situation. But I'm sure it would be a lot different if the Prime Minister of the Government, before he threw his rifle into the corn, had taken a more healthful stand. It was his duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! At the beginning of the presentation of the position of the Desus Group, let us touch on the situation at the gastroenterological clinic of the University Clinical Centre presented to us by the rapporteur for today's debate. Taking chemotherapy in the hallway, even standing, patients who also have beds in the hallway and get treatment, food and care there, these are conditions where you really don't want to cross the threshold of our hospitals. In addition, we can add some abnormally long waiting types, the human resources malnutrition of many health institutions, and the continued negative operation of mostly one and the same hospitals, the low wages of the medical staff performing the most difficult work, and could even list them. Is everything really that bad in our health care? In our Group of Members, it would be difficult to agree with such a negative assessment. We do not close our eyes before we can find in our public health system a variety of anomalies, if I may say so, even in the cases presented by the debate proposer. However, we believe that Slovenian health care does not matter at a high level, in particular as regards the expertise of our staff, the accessibility to public health services even for those who do not have regulated health insurance. In most cases spatial conditions are improving, medical equipment is being updated. A number of problems could be solved by changing the organisation of work in public health institutions. This means that we can spend a lot of money on reducing waiting lines, but without optimising the work processes, there will be no effects. Therefore, the Public Administrations Act should be amended to begin with, which would give the management staff more responsibility for the successful operation of the institution, for the rational use of money, for the motivation of employees for quality work management, and for responding at the same time to the poor business and organisation of work which leads to long-term work, the dissatisfaction of patients and employees and so on. When we complain about poor living conditions in public health institutions, we are pleased to forget that virtually all investments are made through public procurement procedures. These are the problems of all those who are obliged to carry out investments in accordance with the law governing public procurement. The cartel arrangements of the tenderers, the setting up of calls, the abuse of rights of appeal and, consequently, the long-standing selection of the operators of an investment must also be addressed by public health institutions. Therefore, it is always taking years for an infrastructure project to be carried out to improve the quality of living of patients and the working situation for employees. In addition to good organisation of work, patients can help reduce waiting types by themselves if they have the opportunity to find a public health institution where the waiting line is the shortest, even if it has to be a little longer. It is true, however, that the oldest and socially weak are those who do not have access to the Internet, where information about the length of waiting species can be found, while at the same time they cannot drive throughout the country to receive medical treatment for a situation that may not yet be life-threatening at present. Therefore, there is room for improvement in this area so that an elderly person without relatives and friends living below the poverty line can access health care at the shortest time possible. The fact is that there are opportunities for improvement in each system, including in health care, and that money is not always the only answer. As demonstrated by the public opinion survey carried out at the University Clinical Centre Maribor at the end of 2018, patients have an extremely important relationship with healthcare professionals. According to the study's assessment, this relationship is at an extremely high level, as patients on a scale of 1 to 5 assessed medical treatment with an average score of 4.62. Obviously, employees are making a great deal of effort to treat patients qualitatively, regardless of the situation in which they work. Therefore, we must all work together in such a way as to make it easier for employees to provide quality health care and to be adequately rewarded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The next Mrs Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u12	Have a good day to everyone in the hall! In the current state of Slovenian health, which, according to many, I rely mainly on expertise here, literally falls. Despite political promises and financial contributions to shorten waiting periods, they are being extended. As a result, hospital absences of more than 30 working days are also increasing, which go under the burden of the Health Insurance Office. We're closing down the wards. Some hospitals lack certain medicines, especially for the most difficult patients. Our doctors, especially young doctors, as well as other healthcare professionals are going abroad. Our patients are also being treated abroad. The negative operation of public health institutions has become a sort of annual standstill, despite the intervention law and the 136 million that some institutions have received. There are still no standards and standards for awards, nor for the payment of health services. We are witnessing political recruitment, corruption, overpayment of medical material. There are no legal changes and I could still list them. That is why, of course, the question arises to me why, for God's sake, such an arrogant person was now the former president or prime minister of the current government, as well as the former Minister of Health or Minister of Health, who is currently in the process of doing business, that the health problems in our citizens, as a result, have not been adequately addressed and responded to. Why do I say arrogant? See, the Minister of Health, who carries out the current business, rarely, despite the serious topics and problems that we have dealt with on the Health Committee, has shown up or joined us there. Well, even here in the Assembly Hall, when we discussed the health issue, it was almost gone. Even less so, to make a change in marriage. However, the President of the Government, who is still in business, answered oral questions in the National Assembly, which were asked by Members regarding health issues, in his style, because you know what this is. At the last meeting of the National Assembly, a proposal was made by a colleague from New Slovenia, Ive Dimic, to hold a debate in the National Assembly on the health situation. Today, when we consider this point, we know that Mr Šarec will only be with us for an hour. I understand your apology for your absence, but look, Mr President, who is still doing business, you are the only one who can answer these questions, questions from Members. As a result, of course, I wonder if we will then have some kind of debate circle today without who should be here. It seems to me as if I were ordered to see a doctor, come to a certain hour, the doctor should go somewhere on the ground and tell me, listen, go right over to the waiting room, and with those who are waiting, think a little bit about your health. So today we will be discussing this subject for 6 hours, as far as it is available at this point. Of course, our voice will not reach again those who are responsible for the health situation this year and a half worse than it has already been. The 2018 Coalition Treaty, as you know, promised accessible, quality, effective and financial sustainable health care. And what is the result of these promises after a year and a half? There's no result. But the situation, I hope, is worse in all areas of health than it was a year and a half ago. There are no legal changes promised to us by the Government's normative programme for 2018 and 2019, namely the Health and Health Insurance Act, which should be adopted by the end of December 2019 under the Government's normative programme, there is no law on long-term care to be submitted to the Government by the end of November 2019. So neither the first nor the second law saw the light of the world. However, Mr Šabeder said that, of course, both laws were kept in the Ministry in the drawer, but he was running out of time to send them to the National Assembly for the procedure. I'd call it, yeah, yeah! What is in the drawers of the Ministry of Health, believe that it will not help our patients, doctors and our elderly citizens. If I can sum it up. The health situation is worse than in 2018 when this government took the lead. And it is high time that the Government and the Ministry of Health take over the people who will work and also do something for the benefit of our patients, our doctors, all the health staff and also rationally spend our money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u14	Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, Government, Vice-President of the House, good afternoon! We need to look at the health system in Slovenia from at least two aspects, from the substantive, that is, the professional, and the organisational, that is, the political. At the professional level, which is actually most connected to users, this is us and patients, he would first focus on the words of Professor Sam Beast, a specialist in internal medicine and haematology. When asked how haematological cancer treatment is organised in Slovenia, I answer, quote: “Excellent. We give people top-notch treatment. We cannot always ensure an optimum outcome, but we can ensure that everyone who is treated with us gets the best. We discuss each treatment with our colleagues at meetings and give as much as we can. You should know that access to medicines in Slovenia is paramount. We must be grateful for the social status of the country which makes such treatment possible." End of story. And that's the point we want to put out. On the other hand, are there problems to be addressed from a political point of view? Sure. But the fact is, the situation is not as black as some paint it, and far from being catastrophic. Anyone who is seriously ill in Slovenia is receiving quality therapy and health care. If we don't have this, the doctors will send him abroad. What does politics have to do with this? Investments, too. Some of this is done by the founders and institutions, especially at the primary level, on their own. However, which is a secondary and tertiary level, the State is investing on the basis of the stated needs of a specific public health institution according to the priorities set by the institution. It is important, however, that the State invests in all institutions, and the resources will never and likely never be sufficient to meet the needs of all 26 hospitals. Last year, €35 million was allocated for investments. Now let the nanism of some of the measures that were taken in the field of health at the time of our government. I think this will be the best way for us to respond to those who are trying to show our government's inefficiencies in the field of health. Waiting years. These are an integral and inevitable part of every healthcare system, and they also present a problem in our country. First of all, it should be pointed out that the data on waiting periods are wrong for operators. This is shown by the findings of the health inspectorate. The maximum non-compliances were found in the reality and update of the data. Almost half of the cases are not real and are not up to date. The government of Marjan Šarca has taken a comprehensive approach to solving this problem, we have started various activities, while we have looked at accessible, safe and quality treatment of patients. Let us take a look at the concrete actions of the government of Marjan Šarc. The pilot project at the orthopedic clinic, with a similar approach, we also wanted to continue in other areas. An Action Plan to improve data quality for the period 2019-2020 has been adopted to improve the quality of data on waiting periods and waiting periods. It is worth mentioning the introduction of the eBOL electronic hospital sheet, which replaced the paper form so far at the beginning of this year. This year, the preparation of technical improvements to the eConsultation tool is also envisaged. By general agreement for 2018, Annex No. 2 to this agreement, and to the general arrangements for 2019 we have provided 84 additional teams of general ambulances and 31 teams of children's and school dispensaries. This has strengthened the primary level. In Annex 1 to the general agreement 2019 we corrected the upper limit of the principal coefficients. The doctor may thus refuse to define new insured persons in a thousand and eighty-five headcounts. In Annex 2, we were able to reward the over-burdened health teams of family medicine and pediatrics. In Annex 3, we provided funds for a larger programme, where waiting periods are the longest. We have also strengthened more activities in the field of patient awareness of the choice of a shorter waiting period operator, which is otherwise foreseen for this year. These measures are of a short-term nature and long-term measures are very important to address the issue of waiting periods. Here I would point out the Government's activities to ensure a sufficient number of doctors, a more rational organisation of the public health network and an SRSS pilot project aimed at transferring knowledge for the development of the accounting model to a specialist outpatient activity based on the concept of payment after performance. With regard to the problem, I would also mention the introduction of an additional programme to manage waiting periods for selected health services this year. This will focus the funding from the budget of the Ministry of Health of €8.5 million on the increased volume of services in the selected pool of specialist outpatient activities. And how did you solve the waiting years imagine New Slovenia? They tabled a proposal for a law that would allow for additional public funds for only one professional group, doctors, there is no health care here. The law would have a negative impact on the effectiveness of the work of doctors during regular working hours and would increase the burden of already overburdened, almost burned doctors. In all likelihood, however, artificial displays of waiting periods would also occur, since this would allow independent doctors to accept an additional payment for a long time. Interestingly, the law, which is supposed to address this problem of resolution, does not mention the causes of these in any way. In all of this, we do not have the financial resources to implement such a law. The Law is also opposed by the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Economic and Social Council. Let me quote Daret Stojan of the Association of Employers' Trade Organisations, quote: "In this proposal, social funds are used for privatisation. This is not a classic entrepreneurship based on market logic.« End of quote. Health care is not and must not become profitable, which is an axiom of private capital. Otherwise, we heard on Tuesday that the bill is withdrawing, which is worrying, is the concept of the law, and this is an attempt to privatise public health in the Republic of Slovenia. However, we must stress that it is a long-term process to solve waiting times. Waiting periods are not only related to the number of doctors or to the money we spend on health care, we need to look for deeper causes. Regarding the resolution of the human resources issue, annex 1 to the 2019 General Agreement – we have reduced the standard of defined patients to a doctor. Annex 2 to the 2019 General Agreement – award of over-burdened health teams of family medicine and pediatrics. For 2019, the government increased the budget for trainee and secondary salaries from €60 million to €70 million. At the initiative of the Minister of Health, both medical universities increased the number of places of entry, and we increased the number of specializations in the field of family medicine. The Ministry of Health has worked with the Medical Chamber and the Slovenian Medical Society to encourage young people to choose family medicine specialisation. The meeting was organized by medical students and young doctors. With the Regulation on the upper limit of the number of job offers in the Republic of Slovenia, we have made it easier to hire family medicine specialists from third countries. We have adopted a document of Professional Competence and Activities, which eliminates injustices for those healthcare workers who have done more than the legislation has allowed them; we provide them with comparable pay for comparable work. Furthermore, with the adoption of the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Services for 2019, we have changed the dynamics of the gradual financing of traineeships of healthcare workers and co-workers, the secondary programme of doctors and specializations of doctors and dental doctors and the budget allocated 10 million more than the law in force. As a result, EUR 10 million remained for the Institute of Health Insurance. In addition, we have extended the period of coverage of the budget gap until the end of 2020. We have also foreseen some systemic changes that we cannot make in the current situation when the Government is doing business. We have joined the drafting of the Long-Term Care Act, the draft is in the final stage of technical coordination and the public debate would be the end of January or the beginning of February. The Ministry of Health wanted to ensure access to comparable rights for comparable needs of all environments, the establishment of national service quality indicators, the informationing of processes in order to maximise administrative procedures and focus on the provision of services for the user himself, the establishment of effective public control and also a higher share of funding and public resources, which would mean a lower financial burden for the individual, his family and the local community. Let me also mention pilot long-term care projects carried out in Celje, Krk and Dravograd, by which we test proposals for new mechanisms, services and tools. What we wanted to do in this mandate was to abolish supplementary health insurance and thus transfer EUR 50 million of insurance profits to the public health system. That 50 million would be spent on health care. After a failed attempt to abolish supplementary insurance, as proposed in the LMŠ, through the help of some former coalition partners who have cloned under pressure from the lobby, the Ministry, led by Aleš Šabedra, has prepared a system law on health care and health insurance to increase revenues or reduce expenditure in the health sector. This is just a few key things, measures, activities that we carried out in the time of the government of Marjana Sarca. I would point out once again that the situation is not as catastrophic as you would like to show. It's a problem, it's gonna be a problem, but we've started with significant movements. So the reality is far from what we hear today from promoters of cheap catastrophic populism. Are we going to receive apologies or perhaps even praise when concrete measures are being laid down? Of course not, and certainly not. We wish that the new government will not act towards the privatisation of the public system, because, as I have already mentioned, there is no health care and must not become profitable. We must strive for public, affordable health care for all, in which patients will receive quality services. This would touch on the new coalition treaties and the planned health measures. If we ignore the fact that the measures are written in very general terms, not particularly ambitious, some measures suggest the satisfaction of many private interests. We can only hope that this will not happen. In doing so, it must first be borne in mind that the system, with its complexity, is certainly subordinate to the different partial interests of the various lobby. The healthcare system must remain public, accessible to all under the same conditions. It must not be overemphasized if this company invests a lot of money both in the system and in the education of individuals, then it can expect a lot from the system. And if they are the basis of public funding, then the health system must remain public. I therefore predict that the List of Marjan Šarca will strongly oppose any conceptual change in the provision of public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be moved by the Magi. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Honourable President of the Government, ministers, secretaries of state, colleagues and colleagues! Health, health care and, above all, human health are areas that are very interconnected, but at the same time, those that divide politics and political parties, even though we should be most interlinked. If we listen to discussions in this congregation, where solutions are to be sought, it seems that more problems are being sought than problems are being sought, split apart. What is more, the saddest part of all is that health is becoming a very appropriate and most grateful topic where spears break, including with regard to different worldview views. Health care and regulation in this is also the main theme of each election, which is right. At the same time, I sincerely hope that the reasons for this are, if I say so, saying that something is being resolved, not only is it an impression given that all political parties are interested in health care, but in the end we are not able to unite on what is wrong with health care and where are the priorities, while the situation for patients is not improving. The waiting periods, despite the enormous amount of money, are still remaining and are even increasing. The ministers are resigning. Our citizens and citizens are still waiting, waiting too long for inspections, operations, investigations, and many of them also die in waiting lines. Slovenia believes the Social Democrats have a good public health system, but we are confident and know that there is still a lot of room for improvement and change. These are urgent. In order not only to improve and normalise the situation, we must all look to the same goals, regardless of which side of the hall we are addressing people. For the Social Democrats, this moment is the most worrying decline in public health funding and, on the other hand, the increase in the share of funds directly from the pockets of our citizens and citizens, which has a strong impact on social security, especially those already on the edge. This chronic financial sub-nutrition of health care results in a lack of input into the development of new technologies, investments and forms of treatment. Thus Slovenia is slowly but reliably in the background behind the developed European countries. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are so convinced that in the field of health, we need to ensure a greater proportion of public funds, at least 9% of GDP. We need to increase the revenue from the budget for investment in knowledge, new equipment and health technologies and promote health. It will also be necessary to lay down national criteria and criteria for establishing a network of public health activities. There is also an urgent need to undertake reforms in the management and management of public health institutions in the direction of greater autonomy, responsibility and competence of management and greater competence and competence of members of supervisory authorities. These are challenges for the new government. Slovenia needs a flexible and responsive health system that can respond to the real needs of citizens and ensure accessibility to high-quality and safe and technologically modern public health services. All of this is just a few solutions and proposals that the Social Democrats have taken on in the coalition, and we will also do so from our opposition branches. Our activity will not be any smaller and we will invest in the legislative process and, together with those who will be willing to talk, seek solutions for quality available public health for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u18	All in attendance, all in attendance! The situation at the gas clinic is behind the question raised by colleague Iva Dimic in connection with the alarming state of the public health system at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. The situation there is really worrying. The space situation is so poor that such conditions can also harm patients. The fact is that the clinic urgently needs a thorough overhaul, but unfortunately there is no funding for this in the budget adopted. Far from being the only challenge facing us in the health system. The waiting species, human subnutrientness, overload, these could say, are the evergreen challenges of our health system. That is why we need to exert every effort to get to them and to improve our health system, which is not as bad as some want to show. I believe that these challenges will also be exposed several times in today's debate. Members of the Health Committee, in particular members of the Health Committee, regularly face these challenges, not only at meetings of working bodies, but also through the reading of various materials, visits to health institutions, discussions with voters on the ground, and not least in person when we come directly into contact with the healthcare system as patients. We all know that patients who have been unable to wait long enough for treatment with a doctor are not interested in laws, rules, and, after all, not in the tiredness of nurses and doctors. All they want to know is that they're going to be on their way as soon as possible, and they're going to get better as soon as possible. This is, of course, understandable and, on their part, fully justified expectations. In the SMC, we believe that although the discussions on the Slovenian health system are welcome, we can ask ourselves at this point, after the discussion, whether the patient will come faster or whether more students will choose to specialize in family medicine, or whether we will have more nurses. You know that's hard to believe. In the SMC, we therefore hope that the challenges that will be faced today will show the coming Minister of Health direction and will be tackled with full responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors will be presented by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. It'll take a little longer. Even if the last good year and a half had not actually slept and lived with Slovenian public health care and all the challenges and problems, slept with him literally much more times than my partner, even if I did not have a very large part of my family working in public health care on two and a half continents, if I still considered the knowledge, all the way to New Zealand, which hospitals in Canada and elsewhere, I would not have hoped to speak about Slovenian public health as most Members and Members hope. On my blog, I wrote about this -- the duality of our public health. We have one of the most accessible public health systems, more accessible than, for example, Austria. Which, of course, doesn't mean he doesn't have a whole type of problem. In this society and country it is all Levica's fault, and I, too, would say a lot of critical things about the Left, rightly, regrettably, but someone else 20 years ago did not do their homework. Now spitting on Charz, whatever it is, no doubt he got into a little too many shoes, that's what I hope. 20 years ago, someone should have thought about where our public health care is. Our public health, the right-hand man, may not be loved, has developed largely since World War II on the basis of certain legendary doctors and doctors from NOBs. It laid some foundation in the '50s, '60s, built with the self-contribution of the hospital, with the denial of people. Both clinical centres, well, the first one received this title a little earlier, even if I were not in pain from Maribor, when some prominent experts from Ljubljana’s UKC write, it is necessary to develop all clinical centres, especially Ljubljana’s. This same esteemed doctor or more of them, I don't know, can walk to Pohorje and fall together and end up at our clinical center. Ours. I can fall together in Brežice. The fact that no one thought seriously about this public health care shows whether or not I'm going to Ljubljana to a clinical center, there's a couple of knocks, half built, which are already 9-10 years warmed up, and they don't finish. And I am going to some small hospital in Brežice, where some amount lower than that of the EU Presidency would allow for the completion of what they have above the emergency room. It's just some kind of fact. And what I'm listening to here in the National Assembly is, you know, we're the ones who need to understand this and look for solutions. But if the vast majority of you want to be complainers, then find a job at funerals in Bosnia, Serbia and elsewhere. Members are crying here, I don't know, going to the National Assembly and showing pictures of what a state is. The SMC is not to blame, but you were not here before, “Unfortunate in the budget there are no funds for health”. We're all going to pass out, we're going to throw ourselves at eyelashes, we're going to do our health care, and we're going to have $ 10 billion 300 million for investment — how much? 20 million. When I propose on behalf of the Left that this at least doubles, 13 of us vote in favour. Also because some nobility had a ban on the Lord, who is here as a percentage to support any of the left-wing budget amendments. There Jani laughs, from the SNS, I hope you don't fall together and wait too long in line. Of course, we forget that the quality of medical personnel that we actually train with us is lacking everywhere. Then we forget that the younger generations, which end not only in demanding medical studies, are the market as a whole. Yesterday we tried some suggestions of positive discrimination against people who would form the core of a professional army. I agree with them in part, I admit. At the same time, we have what? At the same time, in Parliament, our experts and experts do not have organised parking spaces. Such nurses and other personnel in the UKCs. But someone who was politically slippery sold some parking spaces and copied them. I teach architecture. We'll be in Maribor now. What? Cut that Plečnik church for parking lots. You know, it's kind of a state of spirit. And I know doctors don't like me when I say it's one thing to be a doctor, the other is a public health policy. After all, it's a very difficult study, and you can go to Graz to study it if you want, by the way, somewhere else. I remember, I was still a pubist, in college, before our Views were destroyed, there was an interview with an American health expert who somehow concluded: “Well, I’m surprised that your health care is still in this state if it’s primarily done by doctors.” With all due respect to doctors, there will be no mistake, but we do not actually work, we do not educate people who think, develop and work the system of Slovenian public health. After all, Mr Fakin has acknowledged for some time that there are very few people who understand him as a whole. I spent a year and a half on my own, and I'm a pretty analytic person that I even figured out. What's going on? You know, as chairman of the committee from which I say good-bye, I haven't opened my mouth in almost a year because I didn't want to talk until I knew at least some basics. In this public health sector, it is also too often forgotten that it is not just made up of doctors and doctors. After all, this unfortunate city has even a tragic story of child heart surgery. I personally believe that according to KZ several doctors should end up at least for some time in an open department, just for a reminder. If there were no medical staff, if there were no nurses and no other staff, this would still be, as we say in Maribor, in a larger buttock. And after you ask yourself when someone tells you in the open section of the investigator that they've been offered psychological help because they have you to kill yourself, frankly. But we'll sweep everything under the rug. We're a society of eloquent organigrams. We're all just gonna cry and nobody's ever gonna be responsible for anything. Yes, we urgently need a change of legislation that will also impose on hospital and institution management in order to essentially assume responsibility. For man must be a little crazy in that affirmative sense to even take over this difficult job. I'm hoping to say, with the mayors, you have the most difficult job since you have your hands completely tied. We also need an overheating of the ZZS. This is a congregation of Slovenian public health. However, he is not doing his job, just as Parliament is not doing its job. We know all that. Doctors aren't exactly a monolithic story either. If I, like my daughter, had finished medicine myself, I would probably have made a doctor's room for young doctors and doctors a little by Miha Kordiš. Because it's like an academic environment, come on, and on purpose, I'm going to say that some priest's going to be hard on e-mails again, and the fares aren't all the same. There are many very beautiful people in the RCC, as well as in other religious communities. We've known all these things, all these things have been going on for at least 20 years. I don't have any illusion that the gentleman coming back to the minister's place will be well-meaning, I hope he's done enough because he's got some luggage that's not exactly great. Because one of the luggage also has a client from whom it comes. You know, I'm a licensed scientist myself, and three grand a month is good enough, and I don't need 36 grand a year. That makes me want to throw up. It's a lady who eats, and a half if you want a young doctor or a doctor who pays her pension. And it doesn't take a week for someone not to call me, or anyone I'm advising for a bono. That little thing I teach, and I get half of it, and I pay for the books for the taxes. Cleansing and rejuvenation is called the most famous speech by John Cankar at the time in the largest Slovenian city in Trieste. And that's what's waiting for us. He's waiting for us here, waiting for us in the ZZZS, waiting for us in the Medical Chamber. I can tell you that I like one of the candidates very much with some team that he has there, but the doctors, of course, have to make their own decisions. We are waiting for us at the National Institute, which should be the think tank of Slovenian public health, but it is not. He's waiting for us here with a change of law. And of course, if we're so much for health care, then someone should say, wait, Duck, that budget amendment of yours is too modest, we need 100 million a year for infrastructure in our health care for the next 10 years. Did Janša say a lot about this in his milky speech? It's not, and that's what you know. We also need people who won't look, which little cousin will be concrete, and then we'll have more half built. We also need an agency, not an agency, but an agency, like all the serious countries that assess some quality of health care. Dr. Robida's been talking about this a lot. We also have some errors that happen in the systems that somehow sweep under the carpet, and that is why the system is not making any progress. In a previous Saturday annex, I read a suggestion by Dr. Ihan with a team about new treatments. You do, let's say in human language, biobots that somehow help you cure cancer. Honestly, I sent him an e-mail, okay, let me know how much it costs. It would cost this team to work on it, he told me 200 grand a year, plus two machines, we need two gears. Jani's been looking at the clock. I'll be done soon, Jani. These are the things I want to talk about, but, of course, when I start talking about it, I'm the crazy Duck. Madi Trček will die, and without a little more crazy bumps, Slovenian health will first be in the bull. Thank you. That was not a position, that was a personal opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Iva Dimic has the word as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you to all the parliamentary groups that, in some ways, you have also understood that something needs to be done in the Slovenian health system. I didn't hear or see any bitter opposition. Of course, the views may have been slightly different, but let me say again, the Slovenian health system is good, I have never publicly criticized it, but it is, of course, weak and has black spots. And one of them is definitely a gastroenterology clinic. That's a black dot. The haematological clinic is in a very similar situation, because someone has just quoted Dr. Beast, they have a very big problem with mold going to instruments, but that's another. My question was about the gastroenterology clinic. And I am pleased to meet such wonderful doctors who are actually a bright point of Slovenian health. And once again, I didn't want to discuss orthopaedics today, and so on, I wanted to discuss what wasn't done and what we want to do. If we all want to respect our doctors and the whole system, then it will certainly have to be decided in the future that we will nevertheless allow the University Clinical Center to make operational rooms there. When we visited UKC Ljubljana with the Health Committee, we saw that the operating rooms have been waiting there since 2007 and are heating them up. These are the things that need to be done in the future. And I am sure that this will also be the focus of the emerging government and also of the future minister. And I'm going to be sharp about him, too, because today I had the feeling that Mr. Sarec had the feeling that I was sharp about him alone. When it comes to patients, I am always sharp with anyone, because I feel that we Members are the voice of these patients, that we can move something in this country. I was told I was doing the wrong thing to the doctors. I don't know what to do to doctors. I can say that the organization, the accessibility I experienced myself at the Cancer Institute, is far from what patients with different types of cancer experience at the gastroenterology clinic. And it seems to me that the situation should be settled equally, equally equally for all; all of this I imagine under public health. About the fact that our health system may not be solidarity, and what was said was that we wanted to privatise, let me say that Slovenian health care is solidarity. 75% of the money is collected in solidarity with income solidarity; only 15% is collected from intergenerational solidarity. So we have 100% solidarity in the Slovenian health system. Once again, 75% of income solidarity and 15% of intergenerational solidarity. I must commend or agree with the implementation of my colleague, Private of the Party Alenka Bratušek, when he actually criticised the ZZZS. The problem of Slovenian hospitals is certainly the payment of services approved by the ZZZS. We in Novi Slovenija keep reminding people that they must have access to health care when they need it, not in the way set by the ZZZS, which determines that in a hospital, for example, they will make 100 plasters per year for breaking legs. When they do 101, that one is no longer paid, no matter how many patients come to this hospital with a broken leg. This is a planned economy, and hospitals do not have the means to provide basic things because they pay them the way they pay them. It is a pity that the Vojka is not here, but I think we are all aware of how the Council of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia is formed, because there are as many as four representatives of the largest suppliers of medical equipment that are strong, and it seems to me that this also speaks of who has power and influence. Once again, I'm always putting the patient at the forefront. They were eyewitnesses of what was done in the past, what the minister did in the past. I'm not even going to touch that, because we're going to have next week or in the next few days hearing where we can tell. But I have a personal opinion to make. From every minister who has joined this government, my expectations are very high. Because there is no time to discuss what needs to be done. I expect whoever takes this assignment to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Today we are discussing a very important question, the response of the President of the Government to the alarming health situation. And we're sitting in the National Assembly, talking to ourselves, but on the government side, I don't see anyone on the government's side leaving. I think we should work seriously, despite the fact that governments are virtually out of business. I don't see the Prime Minister, I don't see the Minister of Health, I don't see any Secretary of State. In short, a totally unrealistic and sad attitude towards our patients, patients, in short, all citizens and citizens. And I call and ask in the proposal for someone from the government to join and participate in an important debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Someone must have heard that. I would like to say, however, that the absence of a representative of the government or of the proposer is not a commercial reason for any suspension of the meeting, so we continue the meeting. Jani Möderndorfer has the word to prepare Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Vice President. If there was any point, even in our Rules of Procedure, we would not have this session today. If the applicant could cancel this meeting, he would probably cancel it. Because to speak to the minister, I'd rather see him here, but what should I explain to him and tell him if he's gone tomorrow. At least I hope we all agree that this is just ridiculous, what we're doing here today. Talking about a problem is nothing wrong. However, we expect today to find out something huge and impose upon a government that is no longer in existence, which by law has to wait for a new government and carry out ongoing business, but it is just ridiculous. And we all know that. Today we're going to play another four hours 29 minutes of some circus that you produced, not us. You wanted him, not us. By the time this happened, it was more or less clear what kind of story was going to happen. However, because we are discussing and because certain positions have been made, of course I will take the opportunity to say certain things, which will mainly be addressed to the new government, you know, not leaving. And I hope that those who will sit on this hot chair of the Minister of Health, the Minister of Finance, who has already sat in half for the future Prime Minister's chair, will still be a mandate-holder for me when he forms the government, and when he has it confirmed, will, of course, be a great responsibility to the government alone. But, look, I listened here two days ago to a speech about what's going to happen in health. And in this speech, I have only heard one thing that is crucial to me: health needs competition. Now we have interpretations of these words as to what this means. Some people see this as the beginning of privatisation, and some today declare it to be a sort of socio-market economy, which is fair and so on. Now, would someone please tell me how a health service, in a banalised way, can one operation be market-oriented? How can one service performed by a doctor after finishing medical school and specialization be better than the other? Because competition will arrange this to raise the quality of this service? I'm sorry, I'm scared. I'm afraid if we talk and try to achieve this, then I'm afraid that what we don't want will happen. We're going to start thinking about who's better, and we're going to pay more money to get to the one who's better. Let us remember one thing: the health service cannot and cannot have competition for the price of this, if we want to achieve that the doctrine is, I hope that this applies, is the same for everyone in this country. But if it isn't, tell me that in Murska Sobota they do it a little differently than in Ljubljana or in Koper, because then I have problems. The other problem is, if we're talking about price, I'm even more afraid. Because then I wonder what's wrong with market competition today if it brings a lower price, because that's the point of the market. So something's wrong! Because everyone today has the same price, either private or public health. One of them works faster, one slower, one with less staff, one with more staff. What are we actually trying to do? Please, there is one of the greatest threats to me, as the Commissioner has said, which is that there is a need for competition in health. This is the beginning of the privatisation of something he wants. Who's gonna do that? Who's gonna get this homework? One of the coalition parties has already confirmed the names of future ministers. I look forward to certain questions and this hearing. For a man is coming, our former fellow member of Parliament, who has already sat twice in this ministerial chair, twice. And what's the problem? The problem is that he left this ministerial chair with a forecast or explanation that there is corruption in health and that he cannot or will not participate in it anymore and that he does not tolerate this pressure. And now he's coming back, because now he's going to put up with these pressures. But I have a problem. I wouldn't put doctors in the leadership of public institutions, and I wouldn't put doctors in the service of ministers anymore because they have an eternal problem. Do you know what the problem is? With my own colleagues. I'm going to ask some questions to a future candidate who won't be comfortable because I'm going to answer those questions that he didn't say when he left this ministry. I'm looking forward to it. Above all, I am interested in the answers to these questions that will be asked. I'll have this opportunity to do this hearing. In our health system, we have a few things we haven't done in 30 years. For me most in Slovenian history was made by the second minister in the government, who adopted or proposed and then the National Assembly passed six key laws governing the health system in the Slovenian space. And then we haven't touched them in 25 years. I say, we all are, one way or another, and we are responsible for it. But then something started to change, because just no thing can be cemented. This was what they used to do in Egypt when the price stamps were carved into stone. We can't put laws into stone, thinking they'll never change. Because procedures are changing, diagnostics, development is moving so fast that it simply cannot bear that there are no changes. And, thank God, every new law that we implement into the system needs to experience its changes if something is not working or that certain things need to be improved. But to this day we do not want to hear one, we have one half that screams out loud, that all available personnel should be allowed into the system and that everyone has the same right to access health goods or medical supplies. Because when you finish specialization, you get the automatic right to be the one who can sell your services in the same way, under the same conditions as everyone else. The second half, however, advocates the need to maintain a public health system, a public health system, which is also centrally to the left, each interprets or interprets — that there will be no misunderstandings because I do not want to be unjust. One absolutely public, public, public and only public, but one of us is saying that, of course, it does not hold back in any country, and it has not been proven to date that the public system will be able to deliver so that we do not actually know the private sector. It doesn't hold. If that were the case, we wouldn't have concessions today. I wouldn't have concessions today. But we have concessions because it actually complemented the health network that exists, so that it can actually work. Therefore, I am constantly repeating myself as a broken record and onward – the public health system without the private sector will not hold up, it simply will not. Also because we have more rights, which, of course, fight with each other, but which we have enthroned and must respect. The first is the right to physical and territorial accessibility of health services and the second is, of course, the right to choose. These are two rights that we simply have to respect in the healthcare system. However, if we want to exercise these two rights, we must, of course, make the system possible, so that we will then be able to offer it to the people. Today is not a discussion of who knows the health system more and who doesn't, and who should do it, because I think we have this cleared up in our heads. I spent three years physically in a hospital in my life, and I know how the system works, because I used it as a user and I worked in this system, and I can tell you that a lot of things don't work, not because the system is bad, but because some also fit that as it is. And that's the saddest part. But they'll never publicly admit it, never because it suits them. I said before why a doctor shouldn't be a minister and I'll always be against when he's a doctor. Not because all doctors would be lousy ministers, far away from it, but because they succumb to conflict with their state of life, and this is the Medical Chamber. He falls seriously because he knows that once he ends up as a minister, he will return to his profession and these colleagues will resent him for not doing this, this, this, this, this, and what they want. Why do doctors have more words in the healthcare system than, say, nurses or other personnel working in the healthcare system? Because we honor them and give them the primate to know a lot about the health system. Which is not true at all. They know a lot about medicine, everyone in their own field and their own segment, but this is not a reflection of the fact that they actually know the health system. A lot of doctors don't even know how a medical cashier works. The frame is one of the key problems. What have we been doing with our healthcare system for the last 20 years, of course, is the problem for those who have dealt with them? Excuse me, did the National Assembly deal with them? They've been dealt with by the government, by any means? No, no, no. Those who teach this cadre, those who grant permits and prescribe how many staff can ever complete specialization. And these were mostly doctors. And they're doctors and they're going to be doing cecho opportunities for themselves in specific areas to potentialize power within a particular industry. Tell me why cardiovascular surgery is a church de la church, the most important branch within medicine, and it always has the opportunities and the money it wants, because just once the loan is the end and they get everything right away? The most beautiful and prestigious specialty. They used to have decrees. If you went to this area, then you counted something, then you applied something. Take a look at the derma or the septics - this is literally a criminal department if you're reassigned there for specialization. Who's gonna deal with the shit, literally the shit that smells? It's the lowest and most humiliating thing. And these differences have led to the fact that we are now completely understaffed. But it is not only this reason, but what has already been mentioned today is that it is such a valuable profession that today has virtually everywhere in the world an opportunity to get a job. Why are they getting away? Sorry, we knew this 20 years ago, that sooner or later what was going on all over Europe and all over the world would happen to us. The mandate said very clearly whether we will allow ourselves to be examined by someone who will not be able to tell us in the Slovenian language how to cure us. They are aware of this problem everywhere, and we too will have this problem sooner or later, but we will be able to take it seriously. This means that we will be able to offer the staff good conditions to come to Slovenia to work, and allow them to learn our language and take our culture if they want to live here, and then we will function. Sooner or later, if not us, our craftsmen will surely accept this because there will be no other solution. However, there are certain measures that should be taken, and I wonder if the doctor will do so to the Minister. What if he proposes this as a solution to his program? What's the solution? Everyone in our country who completes university education actually has a tuition paid by the state. A specialty, the kind they have in medicine, but they only have it there and nowhere else, and the state pays for it. And you won't believe it, it's very expensive, it's very expensive, it's this specialty and it's six years long. Does anyone ask this doctor when he went out: "Hey, hello, will you return any of this money, because I understand you, okay, free market in the European Union?" Ask the doctor's room when I said once, they just laughed, and they said, "You know, there's market freedom in Europe, they can go wherever they want, and you're the last one to limit them." No, because I don't want to restrict them, but I want to tell them, my dears, if we're investing in you, then return something to this country. Either you give her her money back or you give her her knowledge. And this seems to me to be a proper and concrete measure, how we can keep our doctors in Slovenia. I don't think everyone's gonna go out. You know, people live very much in Slovenia and we don't have a shitty health system. As far as waiting species are concerned, I will also conclude with this, because every word is superfluous, because I have a lot of money for a new candidate for minister, and I will say the following. We don't have accurate data today. I'm so sorry, everyone who philosophies and smarts that we have them doesn't have them. This is due primarily to those who first enter data into lists and do not regularly enter them and nothing happens to anyone. Nothing. Others are those who accumulate all this information and say they do not enter those exact and do not act, and the third because they are collected by the wrong legal person. I don't know why it collects NIJ. HE'S NOT called upon to identify waiting types, yes, by law, because that's what we predicted. Do you know who might? Those who pay the services must also have control over waiting types, and this is a health treasury. Why? Because something is wrong if there are so many waiting types and the service is only so paid. Sometimes these numbers don't match, someone should act, and all the alarms should ring. So cashiers don't even care, they have one completely different information about waiting species. NIJ is a philosopher with some Excel tables, and in the 21st century digital age, they are still talking about Excel. I mean, I'm asking you nicely, it suits someone, if you know what I mean, but it's very appropriate for him to be such a mess and chaos. If we go to look at waiting types, I say today that there are not as many for emergencies as there are for those where life is not at risk, and these are facts. Sorry, hallux valgus, thumb bone, more women than men, it has nothing to do with sex, to understand each other, but it's not a human life-threatening thing. I don't know anyone else that killed him. Not one. Give me one case. But go see how many are waiting for this, and this largely interferes with that large quota, which we call “absurd waiting species”. Tell me one other thing: Who didn't get the medicine at the pharmacy? Who wasn't admitted to the E.R. when it came to life-threatening? Has anyone been rejected? Nobody. Nobody. Who wasn't brought in to still have an enormous taxi service in ambulances for patients who don't need it? We talk about it for years and years and years and nothing happens, nothing changes. That's what the biggest health system know and had the opportunity, they sat on their posts and they didn't do anything. I'll tell you again, that suits someone. One last thing. Is health activity an economic activity? The dilemma which the Health Chamber is dealing with is now Europe, which must respond because a certain procedure is ongoing before the EU. I say the following. Health activity is not free of charge in the public interest because we are talking about national health of the population, citizens, which is crucial if this country wants to function and stay. We have to have healthy company first, then everything else. Therefore, it can never be an economic activity, even if we call it a beauty, as my esteemed, respected colleague, Joseph Horvat, the social market economy, says. It just doesn't work. I argued to you at the outset why health care can't be a market activity. The moment it becomes an economic activity, different rules will apply. But with these different rules, we will further disintegrate this society and prevent the right that every user, every citizen, gets after the stop, and this is the right to accessibility with which I started and the right to choose. What helps you is the right to choose if you don't have the money to pay for a market activity, an economic activity that is the best and most appropriate for your health, because you won't have the money, very harshly said. Therefore, advice to all others, it is nice to talk about the economy and economic effects and market activities, I am very much in favour, but for a certain purpose, certain activities in the Slovenian space are deliberately exempted because we cannot discuss this. The payroll system was mentioned several times today. I remember in 2008 when the payment system was introduced by then Minister Virant and this was a kind of knee shot in the Republic of Slovenia, where we basically put certain professions on the same level, on the same denominator. We still have problems with this pay system today. Every minister, left, right, or president of the government is in fact as long as he is hit by him in the opposition, when he comes to him, but as a drunkard, the fence clings to this payroll system because he knows that his budgetary framework for the functioning of the state will be broken if he destroys it, because once he brings one out, everyone will go crazy. This is Pandora's box you can't stop. Who will have the courage to say, but these are exceptions and go out, and everyone else is no exception? Look, I want to see him. But it's really something, it's very easy to stand up there and say it to the cameras. When you come into the rooms, the lights go out, but you have a problem that needs to be solved. Of course, this problem is not solved in this way. Definitely not. Wow, good luck with the one who's gonna deal with the health system, thinking you know him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think Dr. Duck has sincerely applauded his colleague Jani, and I would like him to, but sometimes it was said that he should not applaud here, at least during the debate. I've said many times that it's a shame to go out now to commend him. [[…]] Maybe just to explain why I started the model of the social market economy. This had nothing to do with the health system. I said, and I repeat, that my colleague Jani will remember more. I heard on the radio this morning that Nova Slovenija has the best economic programme. I've said it, I've said it, I've said it, I've said it, I've said it. We advocate a model of the social market economy, not socialism, not turbocapitalism. And then I said that the prerequisite for a good economy, no matter what model it's running on, is a healthy society. And today we're on the subject. Some of the points are that it will be easier to sit down if I can, as told by Jani Möderndorfer, who knows the system. I think he knows exactly what to do. I hope one day he'll be Minister of Health. Among other things, he said that I absolutely agree with this – the public health system without the private sector will not stand. I'll sign it right now! He also questioned whether health activity was an economic activity. I will not continue here, but I will admit that I have read quite a few judgments from the EU Court of Justice, and we will have to talk about this subject in this House once. Now it is not so much a problem to define whether it is or not, how we will establish this system. Maybe just one example of why a public health system without a private sector, if you want, without private money, without capital, it won't hold. Yeah, it's perfectly normal, drugs are more expensive every day, equipment is more expensive every day, thank God, and it all serves us people. And that's why, thanks to medicine, people's life expectancy is increasing. Yes, medicine and, of course, a different way of life, as it was half a century ago, one century ago, and so on. But here's where my heart breaks when I walk in the field and I see a private man put his money in, didn't steal it, he invested his money, he built a microclinic, I call it. Equipment inside a superior, artificial intelligence to detect skin cancer and so on. It takes us through this microclinic, opens the door and shows, look, I say with certainty that this is the most modern operating table in Slovenia, but this table has not worked for a year now, it is locked. There are also radiators and everything else is shut down, shut down. Why? Because one of the political options has affected the former Minister of Health and burned him down, there will be no more support if you extend the concession or give him a new one. So, look, things are working for us. That's brutal. Someone must have died because of such influence. That's what we're talking about, and this is where my heart really breaks. Is there any problem now that a privateer has invested his capital? Sam said he would have to live for at least 15 years after he retired to pay off the loans." And while we're here, we're not gonna switch in our heads, look, it's just not gonna work. It won't work. Or we can raise our contributions to some abnormal heights so that we can collect, say, 6 billion a year, but then we'll see where we get to. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to ask that we try, because sometimes it happens to us to do a lapus or read something wrong, but, look, it's not permissible, it's really not allowed for me to listen here with a pay phone, that we should stop supplementary health insurance because some people are getting fat -- otherwise it wasn't said, but I understood it this way -- with 50 million gains in supplementary health insurance. Where are those numbers?Oh, my God! Unless we understand profit as an accounting category correctly or each one interprets it according to his own ideology. Let's read accounting standards, put ourselves at the same coordinate point or ask Mr Vojk Starović, my colleague who has been in the economy for a long time, who will give a precise definition of what profit is. My colleague Jani, in the previous debate – yes, when we discussed that unfortunate law, which also led to Mr Šabeder's resignation and, as a result, President of the Government, these are very important contents - he said, he gave an assessment of what the benefits of supplementary health insurance are. Now I've done this myself with the help of a professional associate. Of course, there are no business results for 2019, but they are for 2018. The insurance company Triglav – the whole insurance company Triglav has many products, not only supplementary health insurance – had 65.5 million profits in 2018. We can't count that in there. Triglav insurance company made 1.3 million profits in 2018, i.e. Triglav, a large proportion of the state insurance company, 1.3 million profits in supplementary health insurance. Next, Mutually, let's say that there are no other products that only have supplementary health insurance, 677 thousand 624 euros in profits for 2018. Generals, it is a negligible part of supplementary health insurance throughout the core business or business of this insurance company. The entire Generals – this is what they call themselves today, in 2018 it was not yet Generals, that is indeed - 4.67 million profits. And I'm going to add up all of this profit to the Generals insurance company when I add up the profit from supplementary health insurance, and I get 1.3, plus 0.7, that's going to be rounded up, Mutual and 4.5 Generals, and I'm going to come up with 6.5 million profits for 2018 for these three insurance companies that are also working supplementary health insurance. Yeah, for God's sake, where's 50? Where's 50 million here?Oh, my God! Unless someone counts the profits by deducting paid health services from the premiums. But it's not an economic category, an accounting category of profits. But if so, then let's ask ourselves, what's the difference with the ZZZ, which isn't an insurance company that's an insurance company? We don't have a classic health insurance company, ZZZ is not an insurance company. And if we look at that difference there, I don't know who might be in these organs, let them check it out. Yes, I'm sure this debate is about the future government, I completely understand. I also understand that Mr Marjan Sarec had to leave, I do not blame him, but I thought his performance was so much more of a baleful account, which is not worth any government president, with my colleague Ivo, including me, with New Slovenia, anyway. Look, it's a balinian. And if that's how we're going to solve a system as important as health care, then we're not going anywhere. I think, however, here I continue, as Jani has opened up the dilemmas that we should really look first at the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. In Article 35, this guarantees everyone the right to preventive health care and medical care in accordance with the conditions laid down by national legislation and customs. And now to us, our constitution. You know, this is where we should start because I can see we're not coming together. Let's start with the foundation. The Constitution, our Constitution, in Article 51, paragraph 1, guarantees everyone the right to health care under the conditions laid down by law. Article 51, second paragraph, of the Constitution, empowers the State to determine the rights to health care financed by public funds and Article 50, second paragraph, of the Constitution to regulate and operate compulsory health insurance. According to a consistent constitutional assessment, the management of a public service for an activity whose management is in the public interest and which the State is obliged to provide or must be permanently accessible to all citizens under the same conditions. On this subject we already have some decisions of the Constitutional Court, I will not quote it now, I do not have time. The Constitutional Court has held that the right to healthcare referred to in Article 51, paragraph 1, of the Constitution for the State gives rise to an obligation to establish a system that makes health services accessible to all those in need. Access to everyone. It follows from that constitutional judgment that the second paragraph of Article 50 of the Constitution, which imposes an obligation on the State to regulate compulsory health insurance and to take care of its functioning, is intended to exercise the right to health care. On the basis of the above, it can therefore be concluded that the Constitution places an individual asking for health services at the heart of the public health system and not a country offering health services to individuals through its operators. This is very important – the Constitution therefore defines public health by the criterion that standard health services are financed by public funds, in particular through contributions to compulsory health insurance, but not by the criterion that healthcare providers are established by a person of public law, that is, a State or a municipality. I think that's understandable. One more thing, I'm concluding, what happens to us if the system isn't robust? This applies to all systems, including technical ones. If the systems aren't robust, they just fall apart, they're not stable. For example, it is normal for commercial insurance companies looking for their space on the market to offer because we have waiting species, regardless of whether they are recorded by the NIJS, but I know that Dr. Trček, who is now Chairman of the Health Committee, understands informatics that, I am sure, I would apologize to my colleague, but I am sure that within three months with three students he would establish a single system for the management of waiting species, which we do not know today. But because the waiting lines are - 75 thousand waiting for them over the allowable period, reports NIJZ, let's say that this data is only 90% accurate, we're still at 65 thousand - so insurance companies are offering products to skip the waiting line. You pay a different price today, 10, 15 euros, to a commercial insurance company that will allow you to do so. What's going on? Yeah, what's happening is that we're building a parallel health system, and it's no longer public. And we're against it. We're against amphibians, too. The cavities are formed because the system is not stable because it is not robust. And this is where I stop. Yes, I take responsibility for the new government that's coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath, for your discussion. Let me once again say that Mr Sarec apologized for his excusable reasons, for his death in the family, it would be fair or gentlemanly of you not to manipulate this in your debate. We're moving on. Mag. Andrej Reich has his word, but prepare yourself for Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. The Slovenian health system is relatively good according to the amount of money available, hand to heart. We have a wide range of rights. Our patients also have the most expensive medicines available. However, it is a fact that it faces some challenges. In Slovenia, we devote less than 8% of gross domestic product to health care. In doing so, the population is getting older, the treatment methods are being auctioned, the cost of working in health care is rising, the number of patients will increase as a result of ageing, and the health methods they will use will be more expensive. And we as a society need to find one consensus on how to address these problems and solve them. And it's true, we've got problems, we've got unscheduled waiting lists. We have an unscheduled hospital management system. We have hospital directors who are still employed in five other jobs at the director's office. These are things that don't put order in the system, they're confusion. What we should do in the healthcare system is fine. It also seems unacceptable to me that we do not have a list of waiting periods arranged, that this does not worry the directors of the institutions, that this does not concern the health insurance company and that there is no control over the quality of services rendered. No one knows today whether the service paid, arranged, performed qualitatively and whether it was even necessary, whether the lengths of hospitalizations were appropriate, whether they were too long or too short, and perhaps because someone had waited for a 50-euro ultrasound examination, they had been hospitalised for three or four days. And these are things that we, too, have to give the policy and the profession answers. It saddens me that today we are discussing matters in a partial way, that we are not solving them in an integrated manner, that we are not discussing how much money we will spend on health care, how we will spend it, and what are the rights we will get out of this. Today's health insurance system is, to say the least, strange. Complementary insurance shall correct the lack of money from compulsory insurance. And today, even if you are hospitalized in an emergency hospital, part of the emergency service is paid from supplementary health insurance. And of course that's not normal, and these are the things that we should address. However, it is not normal for urgent matters to be paid from compulsory insurance. This is also a matter that is essentially due to an anomaly in the past, when there was insufficient money in the system, when there was an economic crisis, and when there was no money in the public budget, then a certain cost of these health services went into supplementary insurance. Another matter that is, of course, is the problem of long-term care. We will also have to talk about how we will save him, how much we are willing to pay, how much we can pay, who will implement him. I am sad on the one hand, we have a budget concluded for two years with record funds. This is essentially a period when two key health and long-term care issues could be resolved. But I am very concerned because now my colleague Horvat has said well that they will withdraw the marriage and bring it into line with the global view of the new coalition. This is the thing I'm worried about. Health care can't be marketable. We know that users of health services are mainly older, pensioners, with relatively low services. And if someone who is by definition unprofitable is put into the system by definition someone who has to create profits, then this profit can only be created at the expense of public and public rights. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dr. Duck, you have the floor. But get ready, Mr. Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you. Private, it can wait a little longer. It'll take a while. We're talking about everything alive. At first I thought we would talk about the challenges and problems of the gastro- clinical department at UKC Ljubljana. I also have to tell you how this story came about. As chairman of the committee, I attended a press conference highlighting pancreatic cancer. The head of the clinical department, we were talking, he kind of suggested that I visit them to see what conditions they were working in. I mentioned this to my colleague Ivy, she said if she could go along, of course, why not? Then there was some agreement to hold a board meeting together, after NSI decided, as she had decided, it was. I can only raise insults to myself. This visit was as sour-sweet as going to some Chinese restaurant. Why? The sweet part of it was when Ivy and I were there and we were on the morning board, where there was a presence — Eve, how many? 40, 50 people of three generations, well, if I give generations after decades, even four people standing on each other's shoulders. The youngest generation reported the situation, the middle generation taking over the most difficult operational part, commented, and the blue elderly added something. Most of the time, a lady doctor looked at me as bad as if I were a villain, and if she was listening, I don't blame her, but after all, politics is responsible for that other part of the story, which is not just the hallmark of the gastro-clinical department, which is the issue of both infectious departments, that I'm not talking about any lungs on the Pohorje, but somewhere else. Now, don't give me the creeps 'cause I agree with Janie here. Because that's how it is, I've been guilty myself for the last five years and seven months, even though somehow I've been banging my head against the wall. Personally, I think we should build both tercias, both Ljubljana and Mariborian, simply because time has gone so far, from a pure cost-benefit analysis. You know, this patch that we're going to go to, it's just tossing money away. We do have certain clinical departments in some monumentally protected buildings, such as Fabiani's, but that building is, my dears, for a museum of medical development in Slovenia and not for some serious clinical department. And that should be our priority. In the beginning, however, everything ends in health, and that is it. And all this today, I'm sorry, sausage, because we already know all this. A publicly accessible, solidarity-based health system is a civilizational acquisition! It's like a civil acquisition, which I said yesterday, that today the woman's body is not commanded by the state, not by the church, not by the emperor, not by anyone else. The OECD is not exactly Miha Kordish, who would abolish the country, so the OECD itself says, so what you Slovenians are going to do, stop joking around, one health checkbook, and that's it. The World Health Organisation says that quality accessible solidarity systems should not have their own participation of 12% or more. Slovenian health care is about 4 billion, and even more money will be spent on Slovenian health care by a minister or minister who will be a protected person. We don't have a protected person with us, so why don't you go see what it's like in France? It's probably better not to be a doctor or a doctor, or if it's right outside the room or make a cross over it like I'm gonna have to slowly make a cross over the profession. Until that's the way it's done, it won't work. New Slovenia. Angelica Mlinar said, politics is ideology, pika. And the ideology represented by Nova Slovenija is an ideology that is being whispered to you by certain insurance companies. There is something that you might say Americanisation, where about 20% of all the money they have is about the health system. And when you become an oncological patient, you think, in too much of their population, or you're going to get a black tar on the black market and sort of take a nap to the end, or you're going to spend that byte that you usually have on the mortgage for a little bit of an extension of your life, or maybe you're going to owe the sights. My personal ideology is that I absolutely don't want to have a medical system like this. I also have acquaintances there. I have a friend from Canada who went to play some kiddie game in Cleveland, and there was some sort of minor traffic accident, they made her two stitches and a half, and I don't want to tell you what kind of amount it was because she wasn't insured in Canada at the time. If I touch this economy, the economy. That is what the EU says, says the Premur colleague. Of course, because certain major EU countries - here I agree with Ivan Janez Janša, who has criticized the EU - want to draw this money. For the future Minister of Infrastructure from New Slovenia, you have a magnetogram, he said: yes, let the money follow the patient, because it doesn't matter where the operations are carried out, either at home or abroad or abroad. I told him then, well, then let's close the medical schools. When I was talking to the privates, I told them, yeah, okay, but then let's put the education tax in place. To educate or educate two children’s heart surgeons to some condition to perform those eight operations, two and a half, it cost about as much if we were looking at the interest rate as Janez Janša received from the early 1990s until now. We're gonna have to talk about that, too. Actually, I agree with Janie here. Health care can't be a market activity, by no means. Because then we come to the fact that life is one of the most famous books about the American health system, if I translate its address into Slovenian, I could translate it into who can live or who can survive. [[…]] I definitely don't want to have a medical system like this. Waiting species. My friend Prekmurac is not here. Don't be insulting to my students, they would have done that in three weeks if they had settled in the basement in ten days. But if his son were with him, who's a good computer scientist, we'd do it within a week. But Jani also said it nicely, but of course, with some bulwark, you should literally force someone to seriously enter that information. Mr. Doblekar said - if I touch you, you will be insulted again - and now there will be an order in this area when Janša is. We'll see if he's gonna be an Ordung, I'm a little skeptical myself. Now, some story, some people want to open a basket in the National Assembly. That's the last thing I kind of want, because then I imagine -- I'll literally say what I have at the end of my language -- and how much crap is going to be going on here, and how many lobbyists you're not going to report going around. Of course, we've taken health care in some way, we've got 1.5 velegrosts, the bigger one is now in American ownership, I'm not gonna talk about what salaries they have there, we're kekci here, and I'm not crying over my salary, so there's no mistake. Someone should also ask themselves why this is so. Now, if I touch it, I hope Dr. Ihan will forgive me for mentioning it -- going abroad, not going abroad. You know, most young people want to stay and work here because you're a stranger abroad, no one's gonna hurt you, but they're gonna cut you even more like sausage. The duty of politics — yes, who else, with Zeus, I love God and 300 rosemahs! - it is to create conditions for them to work. Most of these young people are curious, I want to do something, I want to do research. After all, these are not some crazy millions, especially at a time when the budget is almost closing itself, and somehow we are not dealing with it. And also, frankly, Mr Restoršek is not the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, perhaps a minister for who and how he will run hotels. Some stories, and one paint shop, and one robot factory, when they put someone in the wood processing chain, they can't sell me like a story. Maybe this money that's obviously going to go, if you're not smart enough to buy hotels that can't be comparablely profitable, it would be better to put it into the development of gerontotechnologies that I've been lonely about for a while. We're an old society. We have quite a few behaviors in the field of mechanics, we have two strong institutes, Stefan and the Chemical Institute. We have a problem of financing research activities in the bullion when we had this Clash, a little while the insurance company is warming up, a little budget, but I wouldn't, if I put it that way. The health system is as strong as the good one in it, the least weak one, and the most tired one. And this is also the task of policy that we have even more entrenched than they are, and we have the teaching of those who want it, it is not a problem, and of course, that many working in the health system are, like politicians, still people. You know, we now have one problem, I agree with the proposaler to start in a healthy environment, but we have been on that famous ESS for 20 years where the terrible Left has not been carrying laws, I don't know what patriarchal fot, employers' representatives who are blocking a serious debate on occupational diseases. This is where the story begins. We now have a week of cancer control that's been suppressed by the Coronavirus. Now if, one of them says, if God gives us, as we say in human language, each of us will have cancer from children and every third woman, if we wait for that last quarter of our lives. More than 100 different forms of cancer are, one is easier to detect, the other is harder, one is easier to heal, the other is less. Okay, we finally made some subcommittee to deal with it. That's kind of a problem we should be dealing with. And this is a problem where we should, after all, invest from public cash registers into some of the knowledge involved. And basically this thing starts and ends, the Slovenian lacanovite, who is most fond of me by Alenka Zupančič, Young Dollar, Mariborian, by the way, said somehow, you know, we have forgotten about the political economy. Yeah, it all starts and ends in the political economy. If the end of the world is a minimum wage, there is a Mrs. Sonja who breaks up - Why did this government fall? Because of two things, this government has actually fallen for some better municipal budget money that these insurance companies don't even display as much as profits, but that goes through more, but you know, a model for a second track story. It's your money, but you know it. At 45 billion, our government falls to ten million. Shit, we're really smart to the extreme. And on the other hand, because it is a hallmark of minority governments, especially in Denmark, that legislation takes place in the legislative body. This went to the liver even to some prominent union representatives, let alone employers. Will we allow ourselves to see legislation happen in a way that will bring someone else, with the exception of the 5,000 citizens, which we have a constitutional option, or will it happen where it is supposed to be? Because otherwise there is no need for us to go to Parliament. Then let's turn it off. Is there going to be any bidding in the State Council or is it going to be through some kind of submarital act? Janša sounds very populism at the time, but wait, the EU was in control of the EPP. [[…]] In Slovenia you decided before Levica was born that a large majority of the regional laws would break into several laws, so that there could be a little more "sustainment in the mud" and more under-laws. It's probably one of the few areas of energy where we have that fat marriage. These are also some areas that hinder an open society, a healthy society, a society, and then, of course, turn to the health system. About half of the cancers are detected by ageing, the other 50% are faked with unhealthy lifestyles, plus, of course, some genetics that we have, where we could already act preventively. If we're talking about everything that's alive, we could open the pediatric field at the primary level where we're going to have a generation gap, or gynecology at the primary level and not just the families and a whole range of areas. Of course, right now we are in a position to fail to fully implement what we are telling us in the Constitution. It is not equally accessible, in many areas you do not have a choice, but this is a challenge for the whole policy, a challenge we have to face. Part of the solution lies in what doctors say. Everybody wants to operate on someone who's the best. Whether it is or not, sometimes we don't even know. And I'm also going to say, in a state where the health system is, you know, everyone's a little bit like that in the curves, and we're up against amphibians. Yeah, well, it's a white road, but what did we do to cut those amphibians off? When you talk to these insurance companies that are more on the street of NSI and so-called Slovenian liberals – Jani, I apologize to you, I do not consider you to be the liberals concerned – they say so themselves, but we do not have such a crazy interest in these products, because the ZZZS does not set us there. When I talked to people at the ZZZS, they kind of told me this between the lines, so I imagined it myself, "no shit, pubic," and in polite form they said, "Yes, because you are the legislative body. When you order us to behave differently, we will behave differently." Which is why I give them the right base, because even if I were to be the bureaucrat, why should I be tighter than I need to be. This is the basis of sociology in high school, the iron cage of bureaucracy. These are some stories like Jani said 25, 30 years ago, but 25 years ago some legislation was adopted, 25 years ago nothing is done, and after almost 6 years I have the feeling that it is not done because then the vast majority of Members begin to think, "Wait, for God's sake, what the hell am I a violent war, and then the doctors won't like me." Just as I got a feeling about this DZ – when my parents called me, I said, pubes, forget it, it won't be anything, only my smarts are not listening to anything, I'm always too smart to go back – because most of you are probably starting to count, wait, I'll pay more. I remember, now Jani's gonna be a little rough when Jani starts explaining, wait for me to pay for someone who has an unhealthy lifestyle. Here we should also ask ourselves why this man has an unhealthy lifestyle. Didn't someone tell him it wasn't okay? It will be difficult to say if I radicalise that someone in Anhove or in Iskra in Semič is to a large extent or a colleague of Doblekar who had to screw the old locomotives, that he is now - I hope that it does not happen to you - that he is now guilty of having an unhealthy lifestyle. Maybe someone knew at the time, maybe some tiny doctor she was, but they hung up on her a little bit. These are all things that hit the public health system. But, of course, you need some width to do that, so someone has to finally teach you to think. And I have not experienced much of this opinion in Slovenian politics in recent years. We will have to get a little bit closer to the English work from what we call the Bismarck model. We will have to invest more budgetaryly in our public health care, and we will have to raise certain levels of contribution. After all, Janša is not a stupid politician because he had to say it, even if he doesn't like it at breakfast. [[Incomprehensible]] And, of course, it's not profitable, but we'll also have to rule. You know, I'm talking to some young doctors and doctors, and they say, "Today I was in France on my eyeballs, we had a box where there were 200 sterile gases, and I took it and I assisted in the surgery." With us, we have so many and so many in a smaller package - that's also the cost if I tell you on some sort of banal case from some area that I've been doctoring, which I still understand as far as I can, but here I'm lonely. In Austria’s Styria, about 40 million were given to respect their public health system’s informatics. When are we gonna bite into this? I went to some department that, as far as hightech is concerned, was quite polite, if not one of the more polite, children intensive, UKC Ljubljana, but there was a new computer there showing me a new computer, some acquisition, I was so polite that I didn't ask them how it was related to any other systems, because it was immediately clear to me that it wasn't exactly a deck of great. These are some things. To shorten the story, with some protection, it seems to me that Jelka Godec and I should respect Slovenian public health care, only then after two mandates should the state grant us a disability pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The proposer wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I need to respond. Let me tell you how our question of the mission came to be. It's true what my buddy Duck said about us visiting and asking if I could go to the gastroenterology clinic. I don't think Nova Slovenija has made up her mind. It is true that we agreed to convene a committee meeting where we would also invite the chairman of the gastroenterology clinic, but there was no such thing at some point. I've already had a question about what you were just going to watch. You haven't answered anything. And, Comrade Duck, I think I was very collegiate, I did not call the committee myself, but I asked the question of the mission. Why? Because I find it extremely inappropriate for Members to go somewhere and then it remains in the air. This also sheds a poor light on the work of the Member. And I think that if we go to see something, if we see something, then it is also that Members talk about these things, or not least, that of those who have scissors and canvas within the time frame, which is, of course, the Minister of Health, was also the Prime Minister of the Government, we demand what they have done. In particular, if one of the questions of a Member State lies, and then on another month, you try to get the question back, however, where they will move from the gastroetherological clinic from the basement. That was it. And that's today's theme. Comrade Duck, I think I've done the right thing and we have a perfectly calm and clean conscience even before the entire medical assembly of this clinic and even in front of the patients. But this isn't where work ends today. I'll still keep an eye on this work and on a lot of others. Everyone else, I think. Comrade Duck, you're a master of words, you've said a lot, but let me tell you again, I've never advocated the American health system. Never. I want a functioning European health system, if that's the case. Why not the American health system? Because that's where they really die unprotected from hospitals. With us, however, the insured are waiting in waiting rows for so long that a number may succumb to additional diseases that may be of secondary origin due to an original disease. We never said that health care must be a market activity. I said, health care in Slovenia is solidarity. Let's keep it that way. 75% of the money comes from work solidarity, what we all pay from wages, and 15% from intergenerational solidarity. I want it to stay solidarity. Because if we start dividing into who goes to a doctor more than once, who has a worse disease, I think our health system will capitulate and it won't. You've been talking about waiting lines and so forth as you can. I didn't know if I'd put it out or not, but we do know how it happened when my colleague from LMŠ visited the Oncology Institute. I would like to visit Members to see some of the situation in Slovenian health care, to talk about it and to accept some conclusions. That it's a serious debate, that's right. And I also want to have serious discussions in the National Assembly on the state of cancer in Slovenia. That is why a subcommittee for the monitoring of cancers has been set up, or if I simply call it that we Members commit ourselves to fighting cancer in Slovenia too, following the example of the European Parliament, the European countries and, lastly, the neighbouring Croatia. This decision to fight this also means other consequences, especially providing money for a modern treatment approach such as CAD technology, such as new immunotherapy and so on. As Members, I think we also need to look at when we adopt the budget, whether we will have these funds for some modern treatment approaches. And something else is very important when we talk about cancer, and support activities are extremely important. I'm talking about psychosocial support, both to patients and to their relatives, monitoring the disease and unfortunately after leaving. I don't think we're talking about this much. We speak too little about mental health in the National Assembly, which is not really mentioned anywhere. I think things are worrying. I'm not going to say as the minister said I'm always critical and dramatic and so on. But I want everyone to understand the state of the patients at the gastroenterology clinic, and this has also been the purpose of all my questions and today's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Dr. Runch.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u36	Yes, of course, I have to replicate. First story, I, as I said before, have no objection to anyone. It would be nice if my colleague told me she'd go with a question. But the fact is, many times they do not realize those who are not in the National Assembly that we have some slight foolishness, I personally think that at least three meetings could be held at the same time. And here I agree with Matthew Tonin, when he presided over the National Assembly, a small number of Members and Members of the Committees, and now of the temporary ones, you will stretch out so that you can shop at the hearings. Now a quarter of Parliament will be sitting on the committee, damn it, then let's have all the ministers have not one extraordinary hearing. In this context, I understand you, because sometimes you have to literally, if you don't have any more skills than my colleagues on the Hedvik and Stank committee were, and I thank them now when I say good-bye to them, and sometimes you need, if you're in opposition, two and a half months to even get an appointment if they don't talk to you at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly; that's also a parliamentary fact. As for the tunaing of me and my colleague from LMŠ on a visit to oncology, who advised there oncology, which informatics should someone buy, what did LMŠ have in there, which two currents in oncology are fighting, you know, I was insanely, literally physically hurt when I was doing this baby's heart when I read all these clashes in front of these great doctors who – Mr. Kenda said, 20 of us were obviously not able to – all 20 for at least a month in the basement. [[…]] Since you can have all the titles, I've worked with people with doctorates my whole life, and you forget about being human. I think that's kind of a problem, too. Well, I'm glad we're not for the Americanisation of Slovenian public health. I'll end up not abusing the replica. But what your brain said, if I put it that way, Gardener, is verifiable in a magnetogram, it's just a quote. And as a citizen of Slovenia, it pains me that someone will talk, “so it doesn’t matter where they go to operate”. Of course, how important it is, we probably want to develop these skills here with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Vojko Starović has the floor. Get Mr. Jože Lenart ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. At first there were some dilemmas in this room, including a few expressions, also a colleague Horvat challenged me what health care, what health care is, what health care is. It is an economic activity, there is no doubt about it, but not in a market way or in a market way, there is now only a choice. The European and our statistics talk about market and non-market producers, and this is completely distinct. If it is marketed, if the economic operator is intended to make a profit, it is intended to make a profit and otherwise not. I would fully agree with my colleague Trčko that public health is a civilizational acquisition. But it is not only a civilizational acquisition, it is also the most effective form of ensuring human health. This was already observed in Europe by the old bourgeois at the time of Bismarck, when they established the public health system and the public pension system. And also the IMF, i.e. the International Monetary Fund, which has always been in these structural reforms it has been offering, and so on, has turned the board, says that it is worth investing in health because it is beneficial for the economy. And we have to accept this fact that we have to spend more money on health care. As I said earlier about the data, we fell from 8.8% of the gross social product in 2018 to 7.9%. There are no official data for 2018, but the Government, which has not resigned, has resigned the President of the Government, the Government and this coalition in this year, when we had an impact on the budget and on all things, has done a lot of good, as Pavšič said. We increased the share of health care in gross social product and we were before we started to consider the health law that regulates everything, and also the law on long-term care, but it collapsed, and this is still our resentment and we are afraid of how this will work. However, there are indications that the new coalition, if we listened to Dimic, including Horvata, is not about privatization of health care. That's what they said today. To add to this that the famous macroeconomicist of the American Tim Baker, who first warned, I was dealing with real estate funds, on the real estate balloon in 2007, which led to the great global crisis, he was the first. He said: "If we change in America's health system to a non-functional, privatized health system, which is controlled by purely some other factors, we can get the deficit, that is, a big hole in the budget, to 0." Those were his words. Let us take the European model and we are in the European model and stick to it and respect and develop further. I will say again, I am sorry that we were before the debate and that they could not agree to move on when we were just before the present, and unfortunately our President has given up, so our efforts have also ceased. Again, some of you have been sitting in Parliament for so many years and here we are, and we are allowing it not to be realized that the proportion of health care in our gross social product and this is not going together, that there are such problems, that it is a matter of confusion and that we have such problems as are coming. I don't know who it's for, or doctors who have their own feuds, or insurance companies, or even the public health service, or who it is that we can't move it to for 15 years. Let's do our best, let's see if we can take a step forward here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart has the next word. But get ready, mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. What we need to hear today about Slovenian health care, I wonder. What we have heard today about Slovenian health care, which is well recognised in the world, is respected. Experts come to us and wonder how with 2,000 euros per citizen and with less than 8% of GDP we can provide such a high level of health care, take care of every citizen and deal with countries that provide 4 000 euros and more for health care. Yes, recognized in the world, because of the medical profession, because of health workers, health teams that do their best for these 2,000 euros per citizen. How do you know? Yes, with a public health system that works wonders to ensure the security of citizens for these 2 000 euros per citizen, by means of the solidarity funding system, that it is taken care of in the same way. After that, Slovenian health care is also known. Believe me, it wouldn't be possible for this money if we had a system of America, Switzerland. We know who'd stay at the door. God forbid, the citizens of Slovenia, who are on a minimum wage, pay which the Sharčev government has also raised for the benefit of the people. Yes, there is a lot of disappointment to health workers when they listen to us so much, how we accuse ourselves in the National Assembly, who did something and what no one did. With our accusations against each other, morale is falling for health workers, morale is falling for the management of hospitals, health homes. Health professionals expect us to listen to them for action. And that's what we did in Sharcha's government. We listened, acted, and defended public health. Of course, problems are, lack of personnel, lack of funds to change equipment, to invest, to better reward. And all the time we've looked at the growth indicators, the value added growth, the wage growth, on the basis of which the health-care facility is full, so that we don't have to raise pay rates, as the new government has now announced, even to deal with long-term care. What about waiting species, which, of course, we use populistally for all bad in health care? Unfortunately, waiting species are, like everywhere in the European Union, and we do not exceed the average of these countries. Unfortunately, waiting periods are unacceptable in individual health zones. Why? Because in the Slovenian health system we cannot build a health network based on standards and standards. And so those health teams that are understaffed have to work more and patients have less time to deal with it. Yes, these are the basis for order, the basis for doctors and doctors to be able to do their job well. We're making a very populist story about waiting species, but it's very misleading. We say that waiting periods increase, which is true in individual cases. Where a doctor goes elsewhere, he goes to a hospital, sick or even dies, and there is no timely replacement. Major problems in this area are reflected in peripherals, in rural areas, in primary health care. Here, too, the government of Charc has acted successfully. It is fortunate that in relation to waiting species, forensic audit has done a good job and has found that our conclusion on increasing waiting periods is completely wrong, since during this period there was a severely wrong information system, which has been gradually introducing missing activities that were not included in the waiting lines at first. It is even more severe to conclude that the most flawed inclusion in the data was by concessionaires. And we're manipulating the public with these misleading information. That's sad. Dear colleagues, I must say the following. When the President and Vice-President of the Health Committee officially announce themselves in a public health organisation to listen to health problems when they hear from the management of the institution unheard of problems that do not belong to the 21st century, when you present, as a person of practice, good practice in the field of health, which is even rewarded as the best practice of Proof of Concept 2017, when placed by the health team on the periphery, because in a few years the health system has not been able, the practice set by the State, the practice that gives good results, provides a review of the treatment, the safety of the patient, provides more time for the patient, reduces costs, the quality of treatment, reduces waiting periods, the project awarded by the Minister of Health, the President of the Medical Chamber of Health, the professional assessment that the former Minister of Health, and when the management of the institution uses the expert from this project, reduces the waiting period of time, all costs of the work, and the patient in terms of the protection of the work, and also shows in terms of the performance of the work, and performance of the patient. And health workers remain disappointed again, bereaved. Everything that has been well placed has been stamped by politics “smelling after corruption”. Very famous in Slovenian politics. In fact, fear becomes a person’s fear, employment, and leadership in health - care institutions. In mature systems, such capable leaders would reward them, present them as an example to others, scare them, and punish them. Without additional taxes for higher quality of health, for more treatment in the state of the population, for long-term care, there will be no way. All countries, if we are looking only at the European Union's area of health, which, together with waiting periods, is better regulated and guaranteed than we are with us, have higher rates of taxes with significantly higher GDP and the added value of average wages, providing the necessary resources, of course from this. Yes, on this path we must insist and look at economic growth, GDP growth, value added growth. Yeah, the minority government couldn't save this knot in a year and a half. Maybe it'll be the majority government now. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Taxes provide citizens and countries with the freedom to ensure social security in the fields of health, education and safety, so that they do not need to be indebted from the outside. Higher taxes, more citizens looking at how taxes are spent. And so today, the esteemed proposer, Mrs Iva Dimic, would you please stop the public criticism of our health care and continue with measures to help Slovenian health care, health workers, so that they can do better. Above all, let us stop accusing one another of who did something and who did not. Ensure the means that health care needs to be able to work better and easier. All they need is resources and conditions for work. Let's let him know.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Bojana Muršič, prepare yourself for Mr. Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. It is a strange day to discuss the matter with the President of the Government, given that, on that very day, the President of the Government has resigned and this point has been voted out. Today I feel this as some political prestige or political confrontation between political parties on health care, about our condition. I have to say that today's point, which we're dealing with, is one big nonsense. And it's not stupidity that fills this up, because in health care, everything would be fine, but because on the other hand, Ninamo is the listener who would be monitoring it. I sincerely hope, on the other hand, that behind the television screen, the future minister, who is listening today, will be able to answer all our questions that have arisen, even at the hearing. Once again, I would like to point out that our health system is good. But then when you get into the system, then you have really great care, doctors, nurses, all the other health personnel then work with all the self-sacrifice, all the compassion, so there's one big thank you in this place. I believe that there are a lot of problems and a lot of room in the system for improvement and change, so such a debate is welcome, I just say, should be on the other hand a minister who should hear it. The problems in the UKC, with which today's debate was also encouraged, in the gastroenterology department, infective clinics, intensive clinics, yes, when we saw this, I must say that I was appalled. I thought UKC Maribor was the worst institution, but I saw that Ljubljana's UKC was even worse. At the same time, I am truly appalled that somehow there was no listening, that more resources would be provided for all the necessary investments in the UKC. 9 years of investment stands, or walls stand, warming up. There's got to be something wrong with us. Therefore, thank you once again to all those who have invited us into the environment to present to us that we have been faced as members of the Health Committee, what really impossible problems the entire healthcare staff face. I don't think today's meeting of these problems is going to solve anything. However, I believe that the future government will take the scissors and the canvas into its hands to provide the necessary resources. We have heard that we need 200 million to complete this necessary investment. The door's open, and I believe you'll take steps forward. And finally, we are also facing problems, since Monday’s call to the Coronavirus today or yesterday’s first confirmed case. We have 16 entry points. On Monday's session, we said again in the second part that we must be extremely careful in this place, not spread panic. But with all due respect, I propose that the Members of the New Slovenia for the next 14 days remain at home for the next 14 days so that they do not spread the panic virus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Nick Prebil has the word, and he's getting ready for the mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. colleagues and colleagues. Yes, I agree in one part with the previous and with Mrs Bojana Muršič. This meeting today is evidence and the number of colleagues in this National Assembly, if the President of the Government were to sit there, who unfortunately had to go for death in the family, everyone would sit here and whine about what didn't happen and what was wrong. This meeting today is just a farce about solving problems, what can be solved. Because if we really wanted to get rid of something, we'd be sitting here all 90 of us. I'll start with three things that I think are most important. In the government of Marjana Šarc, we have actively joined the solution to the accumulated problem after 20, 25 years or nothing has happened. And no one can tell us this, a colleague will tell us what measures have been taken in this direction. It's true, yes, problems are, it's clear, but look, sometimes solutions to specific problems take a while. We had ministers, they came, they went, they gave up, they said nothing could be done. Look, every thing can be done if you want. True, it can sometimes take a little longer. And the problem will not be solved today, nor will the problem be solved tomorrow. This will take some time. More money will have to be spent on these things, and in particular more appropriate personnel. Slovenian health care is quality and is not as catastrophic and cataclysmic as some speak. Slovenia is a small economy, it is a small economy and in Slovenia we need to look for solutions that are suitable for our environment. Of course, we can look abroad at what is good and what is bad, but we need to adapt Slovenia to such a system. And it will never be as it is in Austria and as it is in Germany, as some want, because they have a completely different economy and a completely different economy. After all, they're a different society. There was talk of waiting species, of a lot of other species. One major problem about waiting periods is that we still do not have the real data what these waiting periods are because the system does not work as it should. I have data here from January 2018 to December 2019, when from 452 operators grew to 954 operators, that is 111% more, but a comparison of this will only be possible when all these providers and all these services are included in some methodology that we do not have today. The second problem is multiple ordering. The patient is ordered by one doctor, by another, by the third for the same thing. This is being collected into one system. But there's something else you need to know, a lot of people want to be treated in the place where they live. Even knows that, say, in Murska Sobota, the waiting line is significantly shorter, but it does not decide to go there, because I would like to be in Ljubljana, but it is necessary to wait a little longer. Mr. Duck was talking about the OECD. I recently returned from where I spoke to an expert who is preparing an economic report and recommendations for the development of Slovenia, and we also talked about our health care. He said that the big problem in Slovenia is that we have too many hospitals and not too little that we have too many programs scattered all over the country and so the money spreads to all ends and we lose the red thread. And here's where one change will be needed as soon as possible. And yes, I agree with Mrs Dimic that those who pay for healthcare contributions and services must receive them when they are needed. But look, we all know that abilities are what they are, and the immediate help is given to those who need them immediately, always and immediately. I don't want a system like you obviously want some to be like, for example, in the United States, which some people so like to mention, there pays everything, including the blanket you need extra, it pays. It is also paid in Switzerland, which you so like to idealize. But the only difference is that in Switzerland you get the bill after the intervention, and in the United States they pull the card first, if it goes through, you go ahead, if not, and God help you. And I do not want such a system in Slovenia, and I hope that even respected colleagues who come with some proposals of complete privatisation, in part, however you wish, I do not agree with this and I can never support it. But I am prepared to support solutions that will help develop our health care for the better. I'll tell you where the other part of the problem is. You're saying we don't have enough doctors, right? The government has advocated increasing the intake of doctors, but look, these doctors will not be for at least 10 years, and it will probably be another year for them to get educated, and even then these doctors will not operate alone for a few years, at least not those emergency operations you say are waiting for, I don't know how long. Of course they are, but we don't have enough footage in certain places. We also have too few nurses who never mention them, we only cook these doctors, and I apologize for saying so, we respect doctors because they help us, but tell me how much real work a doctor can do without a quality nurse and how much work is carried on them. The doctor can say I won't work tomorrow or even go to the infirmary this afternoon, which is paid by everyone who is public health and works for their private pocket, don't forget that. Where are the proper payments here at these ends? And I don't have a problem with a private one until someone with a private ambulance pays for it and manages it with their own money and not with the public. However, I believe that there is much to be done within the organisation and within the framework of governance. Look, if we had the right people in the right places, we could do a lot of improvements, but we have people in certain positions who shouldn't be there. I'm gonna end up at this point now, and if I have to, then I'll do something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. But get ready, Mr. Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u46	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! John, Mako, Iva and many others, I can list not yet know how many names, including Maša and others, all these people in Slovenia are waiting today. And there are 70,000 people waiting in Slovenia, not according to New Slovenia's data, but according to the National Institute for Public Health. What do you think of a man who's interested? He is absolutely not interested in our ideological debate, he is absolutely not interested in who is more responsible for the situation of Slovenian health care. He's only interested in two things, the first time he'll get treatment, and the second time, who's gonna get this treatment paid. These are two basic matters of interest to a sick person. There are abnormally many ideological debates in this Parliament and in this house. Let's be very clear – New Slovenia advocates public health. As New Slovenia understands public health, this is a health care that is accessible to all citizens, regardless of the thickness of their wallet. Public health is accessible to all citizens regardless of the thickness of their wallet. What kind of public health do we have today? Today, a person with a minimum wage for the Slovenian health system pays 150 euros each month, Members pay 600 euros each month for health care. It is also true that the differences between those who have higher wages pay more than those who have lower wages and rights are the same for all. That's right. But all of us who pay for this health system end up not getting the right to treatment right away, but mostly getting the right to wait. Today we have public health, where you're primarily waiting, but if you want to get treatment, you have to pay right away. So, dear Levica, dear all those who pursue an ideological debate on Slovenian health care on the living and the dead, today we have public health, where treatment can immediately be afforded only by the rich. And this is in the opinion of New Slovenia wrong. It's not a good health system. We advocate public health, where treatment is equally accessible to all, regardless of the thickness of their wallet. But every time we point out problems - do you think we do it because we don't have another job? No, no, no. We do this because Marki, Janez, Alenka and everyone else are turning to us daily because of poor experience in Slovenian medicine, not because of poor experience with doctors, especially due to poor experience in organizing this health care. When we point to these things, we most often encounter ideological debates. The Prime Minister of the Government often does this, LMŠ, I see that he is doing this now – they start talking about privatisation. Can you please tell me where Nova Slovenija suggested some privatisation? Where did she say a public health home should be privatized? Where? These are fictional stories. And the LMŠ, which had the President of the Government in this mandate, had a financial minister, had a minister of health, in short, all scissors and canvas in his hands, so that he could make substantial changes in the field of health, now he is discussing that those we are alerting to are a problem because everything works great. I don't know, let's ask the people waiting in the system today again, if everything is so shiny, great, cool. We have debates, at least on the left we always come up with an ideological debate, about privatisation, about public health, let's put these things aside and start talking concretely about what we can do to make people who get sick come to treatment right away. We've talked a lot to the people working in this health system, and where are the problems, the advantages, the weaknesses. Certainly our doctors are quality, our colleges are quality. You will not believe that according to some information already a quarter of medical students from Maribor go directly after the study to Austria. During their studies, Austrians invited them to work in Austria. And these trends are very worrying. When asked why they decide to do so, they often point out that due to better conditions, better working conditions, and so on. Another problem in Slovenian health care is doctors in pay grade, where everyone is paid the same. A doctor who will give himself up for his patients really until disability will be paid in the same pay grade as another doctor who may hold back a little while later in the afternoon for which he may be able to provide additional services. And public health institutions have no opportunity and no opportunity to reward their good doctors with quality. As a result, doctors are looking for other options and opportunities to work elsewhere this afternoon to work in other ways. This is due to this poor organisation of the Slovenian health system. And if we are not prepared to speak openly and clearly about these things, then we can continue to learn how great everything is, how wonderful public health we have, and people are always waiting longer and longer in these kinds. What's the alternative? The alternative is not in privatisation, as you say, and as you would like to show for every price an American case that we absolutely disagree with and do not support in New Slovenia. But I admit that in America, those who don't pay do not receive treatment. In Slovenia, however, it happens very often that even those who pay do not come along. It is a sad thing, however, that people who pay for the health system every month for their salaries do not get to treatment adequately quickly. These are the problems. We can talk about these things openly, openly, we can say, yes, we need to increase the contribution rate, we can say that the organisation of public health institutions needs to be changed. All of these are things that we should talk about today, about concrete things. Not about some ideological debates, who's for privatisation, who's not, who's to blame, who's not to blame. These are old-fashioned stories that spin and spin, and people are still waiting in rows. According to Nova Slovenije’s assessment, the only alternative is that if this country educates someone in its system as a doctor and the Medical Chamber gives him a license to be qualified to do some medical work, then we should totally care about what institution this doctor works in, or works in, such or other. It is only essential that citizens have access to it and that this treatment is paid to this doctor by the institution or insurance company where they are insured. This is a very simple and simple point. Here you can bring in a lot of things that would strengthen the public system. We had many conversations with health department directors who said that we would have at least this opportunity to reward our doctors for permanence. What does that mean? To give them at least 20% more pay because they work exclusively and only in a public health institution, but not somewhere else, maybe this afternoon with some concessionaire or some private person. In short, so that we can also be rewarded by doctors who are exclusively dedicated to our institution, thus also providing some continuity, some stability, some predictability. The Directors of Health Services don't even have that option. If health care has always been a turning point in the past, I am sure that the breaking point will also be in this new government coalition. That it's going to depend pretty much on how this whole story of ours ends. There is certainly a need for some movement forward and be absolutely sure that New Slovenia will also keep looking at the new minister under his fingertips, encouraging and, above all, coming with concrete suggestions what we can do to improve the system. We have recently introduced a law that was written in the Medical Chamber. I think it's a profession. If someone does, they should know exactly how to do things. Now we've withdrawn him for correctness. We will introduce him to the new minister and we hope that a step forward will be taken here. In short, our goal is public health, which is accessible to everyone, regardless of the patient's wallet thickness.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Pavšič has the following word, and Mrs Mojca Žnidarič is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Once again, hello, everyone! Yeah, we all work for money. If we work in public, we work for a salary, if we work in private, we work for a salary, if we are a contractor.But if we are the owner, we are looking for another matter which is at stake in this system, the health system, which is the difference in price. As the owner, we are trying to keep as many of us as possible in addition to that. And when you say you're not for the privatization of health care, I don't understand. Publicly, of course, publicly, but publicly, where? On the payer's side. On the side of the one who will receive this payment, that's totally irrelevant. Of course it is, if it is public and there is no difference in price due to the fact that profits are generated, but because the difference in price goes back to the exercise of activities. There's a significant gap between our opinion and yours. I don't know what kind of pianist story it is. We've heard too little talk about this in the National Assembly. No, we talk too much and shit all the time, but let's do nothing. We all recognize, we are ideal detectors for all the problems in this country, but when we come to a solution, we freeze. Only in the area of health, since I am here, will politics now be able to save us, the profession warns us, and politics will save us - and whatever we have opened up, then politics has collapsed and further complicated all things. Let's take a look back, over the last 20 years — any greater investment in health care has been associated with nothing to do with any affairs. One's pulling today. Remember the pediatric clinic, the oncology institute – the pipes that are new inside are changing today. Is it politics? Yeah. It is objectively responsible and subjectively no one, almost no one was responsible for it. A few people were sitting down, but now we've solved the matter, and the heavy billions of euros have disappeared. Are we talking too little? No, no, no. We don't do enough! We're putting too much pressure on those institutions that should do something. As in all other state subsystems, health care has repeatedly shown that some lobbying, stakeholders in this system, are so strong that it also has disastrous consequences. Today, my colleague Trček said that we lost the government because of 10 million euros. I was thinking a little bit because it's probably even true. If we go to the influences of politics, the legislation that touches on the management and implementation of the health system. We started with the Health Activity Act and 53.c., which would prevent the abuse by complete private individuals at the expense of the public. There is nothing wrong with the private, there is nothing wrong with the concessionaires, but clearly there must be a limit to where this system can reach and to where we can manage public funds as users. These are public funds. Education of Doctors – Who paid? Those who have paid health contributions in previous generations. Don't forget that! And now he's told his buddy Horvath that he invested in the clinic with his money. Yeah. Who's investing in his knowledge? Public funds. And as long as that is so, thank God that every child in this country can have the opportunity to achieve the level of knowledge that our doctors have. Then we moved on with our health care skills. What a hallo it was after the minister described it was a perfect disaster, perfect. All we did was arrange for medical care to receive legal support so that she could do what she was trained to do, not what medical care was expected to do. We can't forget that. And now, in the end, we've reached the Health and Health Insurance Act and so-called supplementary health insurance. This is where it all went down. At first, even the insurance companies did not believe that we would bring the matter down even to the third reading, with great compromises because we were serious. My colleague Horvat is talking about how the profits of commercial insurance companies were minor. Even if it's only one million euros! I went to recalculate earlier, even if there was only a million Euros left to the insurance company, it was 7,000 700 packages of incontinence diapers, which we also discussed in various conversations. Seven thousand 700 packages. And probably, if we ordered that many, we'd get an extra discount. But I don't know what creative accounting is where these profits go down. Data show something else. 540 million insurance premiums were collected and the damage was 478 million. We all know how bookkeeping can show off a lot of things, balance sheets can handle a lot of things. I want a new government and a new minister of great luck, a lot of success when he bites into it, it's not even an acid apple anymore, it's a concrete apple. Anyone who bit him broke their teeth. But let's take a look back. Comrade Trček talked about 100 million a year, which would have been necessary in the next 20 years to bring the health system back to some normal infrastructure level. I completely agree with that - but what happens? When the last budget - under which we, of course, signed ourselves, I confirmed that there would be no misunderstandings - it was always necessary to make concessions, to take and to give to someone else in the process of coordinating all the documents, namely the budgetary acts and the law on the implementation of the budget. Who's been giving in? If I recall correctly, I am now speaking a little bit more clearly, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of the Interior have been letting go and putting their piece of cake at the expense of other sources and at the expense of other programmes. So it's not a question of how, the question is why. The government is also acting on the principle of Parliament, and the government is voting and there are different interests in the government as well, which is true because we live in a democratic country. So now to listen from the opposition, where all the problems are, I completely understand that. It's normal. You weren't in the government. You can warn me, it's great to warn you, it would be even better if you suggested a concrete solution. Well, I've already heard one of Mr Tonin today, and I hope the future minister has heard it too. But when these findings come from a form of the former coalition, we heard that yesterday, but it's extremely depressed. It was just a matter of setting different priorities. Even in LMŠ, we will not remain silent forever at the expense of maintaining a beautiful condition outside. It was just more necessary for other departments. Recruitment of new prisons, for a court palace, for large infrastructure projects that are, of course, necessary. But don't tell me that it's not possible to put everything together a little bit and make some home for the elderly and invest more in science, research, more investment in health, but as in this building, the government is voting. Now with your finger to show that only LMŠ is guilty, and that's not only depressed, I'd use another word, but I'd rather not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Žnidarič has the following word, and Mrs Andreja Zabret is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I mean, I've got three minutes left, and I'm gonna have a hard time saying anything at this time, but no problem. My colleague Jani really gave us an excellent picture of the health situation, so good that he even earned a round of applause from the Chairman of the Health Committee, Dr. Duck, so it's okay if he left me only three minutes. We have already found that this meeting is almost meaningless today, but it can serve as a good introduction to the hearing of the new Minister of Health; I therefore hope that he will look at it and prepare himself very well. Otherwise, if it's really what it's supposed to be, because he's already been a minister and he already knows the situation. There's only one thing I'll say about the waiting lines. Even before I was in politics, I never understood why someone didn't make a cut and think through a healthy farm of minds that a person was in hospital just because he was waiting for six months or more for a checkup. So no one calculated that a six-month hospital cost much more than that health check. And then, usually, these long-term reviews leave people with bigger problems, longer rehabilitation, and a lot more resources for hospital and rehabilitation. And all this goes from the same malha, that is, from the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. In fact, in this institution, as has been said today, many changes are needed, not just management, but also a number of other things. And I hope there are some people who will think with a healthy farmer. Those of us who are members of the Health Committee have really had a lot of meetings at the expense of health problems. We discussed a lot about the lack of medical personnel, both doctors and nurses. Today, a case was presented to us by our colleague Jani to see what could be done by doctors to keep them in Slovenia. Regarding nurses, I must say that we have been working in our environment for many years to obtain a health department that would also contribute to the absence of such a lack of medical personnel. However, not only are human resources problems in health care, but investments are also a real problem. The reason for today's debate was the problems at the gastro clinic. All those who were last visited in UKC Ljubljana, we have seen a number of unfinished spaces that need to be completed. The UKC should even warm them up and have very high costs. Those of you who heard my question and my question on Monday, my fellow Members who asked us, we do have a big hole on Ptuj, the Ptuj Emergency Center is not being built. Some of you mentioned personal, family experience. I can also say that I am for public health, but it is true that this public health sector needs competition, namely competition in concessionaires. Because if it happens to you, for example, a heart attack and cardiologists strike, you don't care who's going to treat you and who's going to save you. And it's true that public health needs competition, but concessionaires are anyway. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador, your time has run out. Mrs Andreja Zabret has the floor and then Mrs Maša Kociper is the last to be reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Ms. Iva Dimic said that today she wanted to talk mainly about what was not done and what she wanted to do. However, I am hearing mainly criticisms today, but not new proposals, but I would like to talk today about what the government has actually done about health care. The message given by the proponent that the government has done nothing to shorten the waiting times and that they are only increasing you. I will take my time and try to go through all the measures that the Ministry of Health has already implemented and are in progress. Short-term measures: a pilot project is being prepared at the Orthopedic Clinic, which deals with work outside the regular working time for services that cannot be performed in the context of regular working time; activities to improve data quality on waiting and waiting ages; an action plan to improve data quality for deductions 2019-2020 is adopted; improvement of the data capture methodology for waiting and waiting years and reporting on projects to the World Health Organization is to transfer good practices and experiences from other European countries; e-consultation, establishment of conditions to reduce inappropriate travel from primary to secondary level and within levels; general agreement for the 2018 contract year, Annex 2 to the General Agreement for the 2018 contract year; general agreement for the 2019 contract year; annex 1 to the general agreement for the 2019 contract year, to reduce the general agreement for the contract year 2019; and annex 2 to the general agreement for the 2018 contract year. These were short-term measures. Then there are long-term measures where there are activities to ensure a sufficient number of doctors, a more rational organisation of the public health network and a pilot project to modernise accounting models in specialist clinics. Then there is also the introduction of an additional programme for the management of waiting periods for selected health services, where there are also changed funding conditions. Measures to increase the interest of young people in the specialization of family medicine - this is about the participation of the Ministry of Health with the Medical Chamber, the regular organization of meetings of medical students with young doctors by the Ministry of Health. The Minister has also advocated an increase in enrolment at both medical schools and both universities have increased the number of entry places for the study year 2020/2021, the University of Ljubljana by 10 cities and Maribor by 20. Employment of doctors of family medicine specialists from third countries. However, as far as wrong information on waiting periods is concerned, much has been said today. Even before the Ministry of Health was able to seriously address waiting periods, NIJS found deviations in the number of waiting ones, triggering many doubts as to the correctness of the data. And we all know that some patients in the system have been misled in several health care providers at the same time. Last year, the Health Inspectorate carried out a thousand 900 patient rights reviews and also checked the appropriateness of keeping waiting lists. And what were the findings of the inspectorate? That the reality and up-to-date of the waiting period data are not consistent with 46%. The most inconsistencies were in the general hospitals Murska Sobota, Brežica and Ptuj. Provision of framework deadlines, if waiting periods are less than 120 days and operators have not carried out travel triage, are also 42% of the services and so on. Today it has also been said what are the numbers, how many people are waiting, what are the waiting times. The latest data from the e-procurement database showing the latest on waiting periods and waiting on 14 February 2020 show that the number of waiting and waiting years is above the permissible waiting period compared to the data on Day 1. 11. 2019 reduced. The average waiting period has also been reduced. While the data are encouraging, we know that it is still necessary to keep the waiting periods stable. In the period from 1 November 2018 to 14 February 2020, the waiting period decreased by 3 months and a half. Currently, 34 thousand 818 people are waiting for the first check-up period, which is 526 and 1.49% less. Not to mention all this information that everyone can look at, but the fact is that waiting periods are shrinking. What I would like to say in particular is that waiting periods are not really related to the number of doctors or to the money we spend on health care, but, in fact, to the organization itself. If we look in Germany, for example, there are more people waiting, 27% more than in Slovenia, and they spend a lot more money on health care, and they also have more doctors. In view of the fact that we are always listening to how he is actually responsible for everything and that we have done nothing, we would still ask the former coalition partners to end it. Were they not actually in the coalition? Didn't they sign the coalition contracts? As far as I know, we were all equal partners, and we were always coordinated and united and made decisions. I can say so myself, because we have had a huge number of coalition coordinations, which I have also participated in. And since it was said that nothing had happened, I can only ask myself if you had all the coalition partners fig in your pocket or were sitting in two chairs. I don't think that's possible, because if you're sitting in two chairs, you probably fall in between, and it happened what it was. If you don't have honest intentions and you have a fig in your pocket, you're probably working hard. In general, I don't agree with you for washing your laundry publicly, but obviously in politics, that's the way it is. If I recall the position of the LMŠ Group, which we had on Monday as a candidate for Prime Minister for the Government, the leader of the Group said that everything we had done at the time of the government of Marjan Sarca had been done by the entire coalition. Now that I'm listening to our ex-boyfriends, I can say former coalition partners, everyone says otherwise. We know the saying, if you talk bad about someone, you're probably talking about who you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Since we no longer have the said debaters, we are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which Mrs Iva Dimic is also given the floor as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I thank everyone for the debate. The fact is that the political situation in Slovenia is such that today's debate was not targeted or could not be answered, unfortunately, by the President of the Government. Even if he had this option, he would probably tell what they were doing, as his fellow Members from the LMŠ did. Today's debate was about discussing the situation and looking for solutions for the future, to remedy the situation at the gastroenterology clinic, to cancer patients in cages where patients are actually receiving stand chemotherapy, on wooden benches, sometimes on these shortages, on beds where they still have food where they have no windows, one toilet, where the actual situation is not worthy of human dignity and is not standardised. Once again, if there were such a situation in a private hospital, it would be closed. But also doctors, when they visited a gastroenterology clinic in their colleagues in Trčko, said that they were in pain that patients had to improvise chemotherapy to work on their own responsibility. There are young doctors there, there are experienced doctors, and at the time, I've received many photographs that I won't show because I already have. It seems to me that the problem remains very pressing for the minister who is coming. As I said before, we will discuss at a hearing that we will probably have in the coming week, in the next 14 days, and where I hope that together we will be united in that this situation will be rectified and eliminated as soon as possible and that some decent space will be provided. That was today's purpose. I have understood that all my fellow Members agree with this and that we will probably go with this even before and from the future minister, perhaps I, too, first in line, demand a solution to this problem, without indulgence, without mercy, with the same words as the President of the Government of Sharc or Minister Shebedre. Once again, I would like to point out to Minister Shebedra, and I believed in his success when he applied to the police on 22 March 2019 in connection with the lobbying attempt, the case of Zemlarič, since then I have said that this minister will make order. Whether he couldn't or didn't have the support of the Prime Minister or the rest of the ministerial team, you'll have to answer yourself why he didn't do it. You'll answer yourself why you didn't step up for your minister. I wish that after the end of the term, if it lasts for two years, everyone here can walk out with a calm conscience to resolve one matter. I want to, and I believe we'll do it because it'll make it easier for all of us. That's my conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much. You've got your word. However, since the time set for the debate remains, I ask whether you wish to discuss the matter further under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly? Since I can see it's an interest, I'm gonna open up an application circuit. Please sign in! The applicant may also apply. We've got eight interviewees reported. Mrs Iva Dimic, as the proponent, gets the last word in the first word, Mr Alexander Reberšek, and Mrs Tadeja Šuštar is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u56	Madam President, thank you very much for your words! When we are talking about a worrying situation in the Slovenian health system, we need to ask ourselves what the problem is. We have a health system that hasn't changed since 1992, and that says a lot about it. Because of such a system, we have long waiting lines, we have poor organisation of the health system and we have corruption, which is actually a problem. The problem is our biggest insurance company, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia is a monopolist, is a payer of services, is a supervisor of services and guardian of services, all in one person. What does that mean, he's a monopolist? That he doesn't have any competition. And if there is no competition, this means that there are higher prices on the market. And if he has no control, and if he has a jackal with three billion euros in it, he is ideal for abuse and theft of taxpayer money. I'll explain how our health system works in case of car insurance. The citizen is involved in a traffic accident where he injured the front left stool, after which he takes the car to the mechanics. The automechanic looks at this car and finds out the following: “I regret your car cannot be fixed because the quota of 2 000 500 fixed vehicles covered by your insurance company has been reached.” This is the only insurance company you could have secured your vehicle. “But I can order you and fix the car next year, but at the same time I inform you that I can fix your front right stool where the quota has not yet been reached. Of course, I can fix this left stool for you immediately on your own if you pay for the repair of this mud.» That's how our health system works. What we should have, however, is a health system that works as well as our car insurance market. And here we should not detect some warm water, it is said that we should have more insurance companies, if there were more insurance companies, means that there would be more competition if there were more competition, and then there would be lower prices and then additional health insurance would not be needed if it were to function as it should be. And today we would not even talk about these things here, but we will talk about these things, we will talk about the worrying health situation for as long as we do not settle this basic one, which is competition in the health field, the abolition of the monopoly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Tadej Šuštar. And get ready, Mr. Željko Ciegler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. The situation in Slovenian health care is unsustainable. I think that we agree with this for the majority of Members here, given that the debate on this subject has been voted on. As a former specialist in pharmaceuticals, I visited almost all the doctors of family medicine in Slovenia, from the field I learned the state of family medicine. I can tell you that the situation is the same everywhere, no matter what region we are in. This is the case in Rogasovci, Črnomlje, Celje, Bovec, Kranjska gora or Portorož. Doctors everywhere are overloaded and overwhelmed with work. In addition to a 6- or 7-hour outpatient per day, every doctor has two or three hours to deal with post-service bureaucracy, and this exhausts them. I also know the case when the doctor came on her day off on Saturday, after the vacation she took twice a year, to work to check out the mail, respond to the e-mails, write prescriptions, and what accumulated during her vacation to unload her first Monday after her vacation. When she did all this, she was sentenced to 47 services outside her working hours in the following month for doing her job outside of her working hours. Isn't that absurd? Everyone's trying so hard to get rid of waiting lines, but then there's situations like this. The result is that the doctor does not want to go on vacation because she knows that on Monday after vacation she will have a whole mountain of work waiting for her to make up for what she has accumulated from morning to evening. Let me tell you another absurd case in health care. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance covers the toilet toilet adapter for the condition after inserting the endoprotesis, if the patient’s mobility is poor and if the body height is more than 182 centimeters. My mom had hip surgery, and after changing hips, you all know that mobility is hard, she couldn't, like, tie her shoes, but she wasn't entitled to the toilet top because she's less than six inches. You could also say that this discrimination is based on body height. How many more of these patients in Slovenia have not been justified just because they are too small. The prices for toilet toilets range from 30 to 100 euros, and in such cases everyone will go out to buy from their own money, even though they regularly pay for health bills. And it's only because of 15 centimeters of body height. I am pleased that we have this debate in the National Assembly today and that we are all aware of all the health problems. In Novi Slovenija, we have tabled a bill to shorten the waiting lines, which we have withdrawn for further improvement and will resubmit. I wish we weren't looking at this marriage with ideological goggles, but with the glasses of patients waiting in waiting lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Željko Cigler has the next word, and Mr Joseph Lenart is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Your Honor! See, this is the issue of Slovenian health care, for which we, as the National Assembly, as the legislative body, are the first to be responsible. This isn't about ideological obstacles here or there. Today, this debate has shown very good with many arguments that any positive changes in the public health sector of the health system in Slovenia are being blocked or disabled, while at the same time showing that it is becoming worse, less and less health needs are being met, longer and longer are the waiting types. Things don't hold. I would like to say this that, despite the fact that waiting species are waiting species, the real question is how relevant these are. I will tell you a case that has even shaken Slovenia to the point that one lady should wait 13 years for an intervention. And I'm gonna say this, if the hospital were to move to New Town, we'd be settled in a few days. In Celje, I had a colleague who had a serious medical problem, who was supposed to wait three months in Celje for an intervention, and in Slovenj Gradc, he was three days in a row. At the same time, I would also like to say this when I read an interview by Dr. Andrei Trumpuz, a doctor of Slovenian origin who worked both in Austria and Switzerland and in Germany, now works in Germany, and wrote down about access to health and health, that is to say, to life that is for many of the world: “Fear privatisation! Privatization is hell. You will reduce accessibility to health services." And here I'm pointing this out. In particular, when he spoke about amphibians, so-called amphibians, doctors who spend part of their working time in a public health institution and the other part in a private or concessionary institution. We have in Celje General Hospital a department that deals with a heart that does not complete the entire program that the health insurance company has given him annually, but a patient from Celje can go to the same doctor who can't go to the General Hospital Celje this afternoon in Rogaška Slatino, where this work, a top doctor, comes to the private and there through a counterpayment or payment to the concessionaire for this service. You see this is the problem that Dr. Andrej Trumpuž, mentioned earlier, said: "There are no amphibians in Germany. Either you're in a public health institution or you're working with a private person." And these are things that are being pointed out, that are being pointed out by the Left, but things are not being heard. A lot of other stuff was open. When we had a short time of this Health Committee and the University of Maribor has already called for additional places to open for dentist education in Slovenia, it was found that dentists in Slovenia are not too small. But dental care is virtually inaccessible because there are too few of them in public institutions and you do not get to the concessionaire or there is an increasing need to pay. From the Medical Chamber, which together with you, representatives, colleagues from Nova Slovenije, prepared this intervention law, they told us that in order for dental care in Slovenia to run according to needs, we need more dental programs in public institutions. And what else did they warn you about? Dentists from concessions go to the private sector because it pays them more. There is no problem of dental care and so on. No, it pays more than that. And I would also like to say this – not long ago Dr Brigita Skela Savič had an excellent interview in one of the Slovenian newspapers, this is Youth, because it does not matter, let us read what advice experts give us. Although she is not a post-education doctor, I must say that she had an excellent interview with full proposals, concrete, on international experiences based on how the accessibility and effectiveness of health care in Slovenia can be increased. It's worth your time to read this. In this way, graduate nurses specialize and can do many things at the doctor’s level. You could also say how many things have been blocked as far as [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Time's up. Joseph Lenart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I had to answer so much because I think no one in this room cares what happens to our health care, especially not to patients, among whom we are often alone. I'm not going to say the health situation here is a big collapse, but it's not good, but it's not all bad. I'm not talking about public health or private right now. I believe that competition, in a way, is also often the reason that things are done better and faster, but, especially with others, that this system is here, ours, quite good and that the matter is more sensitive than other systems, but it is also clear. If I first touch upon this meeting, I will say that I fully understand the proposaler and Mrs Ivo Dimic, who was not satisfied with the response of our President of the Government, because in his work so far, we have to admit, there has been a lack of knowledge of these things. In what he could not give us a good answer, he could only turn to his minister, to his experts, and let them answer in his name what was happening in this time and in the last year half. The problem is, as she said, at these institutions, the Oncology Institute or the demanding expression of the gastroenterological institute, where cancer patients are also being treated, there are therapies. I think I was in one of those crowded basements once. Either I was in one or the other. Basically, when one of your loved ones gets sick and actually says, "You hear me, take me out so I don't have to wait there alone because there's always been an hour waiting for this therapy." At that hour, it starts to freeze you slowly, and my great desire was to leave the room as soon as possible. These patients are actually in a corner, they have nowhere else to go, they had to go. Sometimes it happened that she took off from Ptuj then to Ljubljana, then there was a computer system blinked and then there was no more treatment that day and so on. Then that was the radiation. In view of what we have heard, we must say that it takes great attention to make these things run better. If I say that the causes are too few doctors and, of course, we have some problems with the great waiting types. The waiting types, as the Prime Minister has acknowledged today in his resignation, may also be the reason why some public health workers plan to work at home. That's a judgment worth it. Then we went into some attempts to import some doctors from abroad, we said from third countries. There it was stuck in papers or documentation for work and working permits as well as in the language. I mean, what kind of doctor, who's reached his degree, he's done a specialization, he's done a tough college, but he's not able to learn in three, four months of language; that's almost impossible, especially if languages are quite similar. I would touch on the fact that, let's say, it's very important what kind of personnel we have here. Whether we have a good personnel procedure for doctors or just take that diploma and say, yes, it's okay, we absolutely need it. And then we don't even have the quality, and the waiting lines are getting bigger. I'm just going to say one doctor's case, of course we can't talk about names here. The man was looking for the property five kilometers away from the city where he was on duty with the paramedics that day, and he was supposed to be ready to leave at the ambulance all the time, and he was looking for the property in the red jacket. And then another case that they told the same nurse doctor from the retirement home that at night when he's on duty, he doesn't pick up the phone to give advice. Here in those who are coming, we need to be very careful that we do not give up in quality, that all these people working in our health system will also somehow feel about patients [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is Aljaž Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing the response of the Prime Minister to the question. I agree that we must talk about the problems of Slovenian health care, but the way that has been said many times today when it comes to the President of the Government in resignation means that the system has been misused, that this has even happened. I understand, however, that this must have happened, because it is actually important for some parties to always display some alarming situation in society, because it is only in this way that they can act and justify their policy. We all have a lot to say about Slovenian health care. We all say some general facts that there are waiting types, even though we don't even know what they are or what they are waiting for. I hear many times that people or patients die in the halls. In fact, all of this is, in my opinion, a kind of fear in society to come into some state that is not at all. Those who have ever been abroad, including young doctors with whom I talk a lot, tell us what the situation is in some other countries and what it is like for us. I think Slovenian health care is in good condition, but of course it is not ideal and has quite a few problems. This is not just a matter of politics or one or two doctors, but we need to ask ourselves what health care is. Health care consists of both doctors and technical staff, as well as hospital management. And these people who run individual institutions will have to take responsibility slowly, for responsibility is always shared. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we have always advocated public health, which is accessible to all, as is the case today, and we believe that there must be a precise border between public and private. In fact, we have in all areas a amphibian that would be a little bit here, a little bit there, and it also led to that. Above all, like in higher education, the weaknesses we have in this area have led to the ego of these people who have been educated in an area of expertise and who want to be, in their own words, bosses in their own field. And it's also because of these relationships that some departments have broken down. The difference between our client and the client of today's proposer is also in that, as I have already said, we advocate public health, which is accessible to everyone, and they compare the health system with the car. We do not view the patient as a technical matter, because if we compare it to a car, which he wants to do, obviously, New Slovenia, this will mean that whoever has more money will be able to buy a better car because he will buy a better car, not even so many times will have to take it to repair. But whoever has less money will buy a worse car and, of course, will take him to repair several times, but, look at the fraction, unfortunately he won't have any money. And obviously, this is what some people have in mind when they talk about some kind of competitiveness. I think that my colleague said well earlier that when we have competition in health care, when different organisations start competing with us, I think that the end of health care, which is accessible to everyone, will be. And as long as I'm alone in politics, I'm gonna stand up to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I'd like to join the previous speaker. Health care is a very complicated system. Providing health care in a society is a challenging cultural, sociological, organisational and financial issue. It's not easy to save him. When we talk, we really can't talk about mechanics or autoclavers at the level of some craftsmanship. Just to think, the company that employs the most people in Ljubljana is UKC Ljubljana, over 8 thousand people. There are 47% of all doctors who work in hospitals. This is also a centre where doctors are brought up, not only do the most demanding operations and interventions that private people cannot perform and do not want to take on because they are risky, it takes on UKC. There's also a human resources dumpster, education, learning. And this is also an institution where it is researched in the field of health. Without one such institution, if we went to this private, small, that third, we had nothing. We've got nothing. We have no profession, no competence, nothing. Therefore, please stop talking about stupidity, such as competition between health institutions as between auto-mechanical workshops and private insurance companies. Let us take this health care seriously and take it forward. I'll do it again, I'm sorry, we did, the minister waved with two laws that should go into procedure and start talking about the right things. Now there's a lot, I'll say, of populism speech, of emotional impact, of the problems they have somewhere, of some excess. I don't think that's the right approach. Things need to be taken seriously, we need to get to the right systemic solutions. That's what's waiting for us, and we need to get this thing done. I'm sorry we don't have these laws in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you very much, for the last time on this agenda item. I was a little confused, colleague Dimic, you said we were talking about a gastroenterology clinic today. Of course they do. All the clinics have big problems. But the agenda says : The debate on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc, who is engaged in current business, to the question of the question of Iva Dimic concerning the worrying situation in the public system, the comma and the label. So that there was a broad debate, there's nothing wrong with it, but just to correct you a little bit. Of course, we can agree on a few general conclusions that we have all come up with together. But some people can't get out of their skin and the debate will always come out on an emotional level, unargued, very human, that's what our voters like to hear. And when we talk about the health system, it's very good that we concentrate on one thing – public or private, of course, everyone in their focus and through their prism sees each of these items slightly differently. But let me read again what I read in our client's position, and this was written by a doctor who himself is very sick and still does excellent work. “We must be grateful for the social status of the country which makes such treatment possible.” Think of the excellent treatment, the excellent accessibility and the excellent professional competence of doctors operating with this infrastructure. Okay, I got Mr Rebrsk's argument a little differently when he compared insurance companies, but here's also the original sin or original disagreement with you. After all, the health system will be semi-privatized, but whoever pays will actually pay for this money, which others will manage. Although this is a little different from what Mr Tonin said. After all, I'm confused whether you're packing the privatisation story under the public's interests or not, it doesn't matter, it's important what's left in the end. And when we talked earlier about the difference between paid premiums in supplementary health insurance and actual harmful cases, we can see that with that extra money we could also solve the complicated colleagues of Schuštareva and purchase additional medical devices, because not all of them are health services, and there are many medicines, and there are many in medical devices. We've all donated to someone some means of accessing better medicines, instead of being systemically regulated, or to a better medical device like, say, a prosthesis for a guy who would want to be involved in top-notch sports after having a hard time. Everything is not just that hygiene minimum of providing emergency medical care and prolonging life; something is also a quality of life. It is also necessary to think in this direction through the prism of public money management in the private sector. It looks like we're not coming together, but we're counting on the '90s. I hope you don't get 46 and the matter will remain public. When we talk about the intervention law, whether you withdraw it or not, we see a great deal of danger in it. Every intervention in the concept of public is dangerous, dangerous to patients. It is true, as my colleague Cigler has said, that every matter that we have opened up in this reference to health care has been blocked at the moment. Every one. Or at least we made an aufbix around her so that we too got a little scared, but this fear passed away very quickly because the intentions are very clear. Once again, in the LMŠ Group we will fight with all four to change the concept. Solutions, if they're good, of course we'll support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I give my word to Ivy Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u70	Once again, as a proponent, I think it is necessary for me to conclude that we all want to have publicly accessible health care. That was clear to everyone today. Despite all these words, some imagine him so as to privatize him. I haven't heard here that anyone wants to privatize. I didn't hear you. Of course, there may be different views of rescue, but you know what, we have in common, I hope that we are united, that we also need to establish a situation in health based on mutual respect. Respect each other for all people working in health care, from the server to the nurse, a graduate nurse who gives the medicine to the doctor who is healing to the administrator who writes the discharge. The circle must be drawn up. For this cycle to be concluded, there must be a lot of healthy farming in this national assembly and ideology must go away in the treatment of patients. That's the key. And when you said that with an alarming state, politics is exploiting what we are discussing today, it is not true. We are discussing, as I said, because the government did not do what it was supposed to do at the time it was. I don't apologize if she didn't have the power, but the budget was too small, and I don't know what. If you're in government, you're responsible for citizens and citizens, you're responsible for the system. And, of course, you also have leaders, and you are finally demanding that matters be settled in a certain area. There was a speech about dentistry, which is really a scaffolding of our system, inaccessibility and others could also list orthodontic treatment and so on. There's a lot of work to do, I hope there's also workers who are willing to help improve it. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Love in the State Assembly under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 59 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members of Parliament requested the first-signed Daniel Krivec to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Branet Golubović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As we know, the Constitutional Court decided in November 2018 that part of the electoral legislation governing elections to the National Assembly is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Judges stated in the decision that the differences in the number of voters in the individual constituencies were too large and that the latter no longer met the criteria of the Electoral Law in the National Assembly. There is enough talk, which has been repeatedly presented in public, for example, between the constituency of Grosuplje, where there are 30,000 voters and voters, and the Hrastniks, where there are 8 thousand voters and voters. This is not the only case, for example, the election district Kamnik-Command 28 thousand, the electoral district of Ribnica 11 thousand 600, Celje 30 thousand, Izola 12 thousand 700. It is said that the voter vote in Hrastnik, Isol or Ribnica has a much greater weight than the voter vote in Grosuplje, Kamnik or Celje. This means, also with regard to the Constitutional Court, that the equality of electoral law is violated. The Constitutional Court has ordered the National Assembly to abolish unconstitutionality within two years or until the end of this year. The President of the Republic, the Government, the National Assembly have joined the constitutional decision in a coherent and very responsible manner. In many coordinations, we have sought solutions that have the greatest possible consensus. Here, it must be very frank to say that the two solutions that we have drawn up in the end do not have either of these solutions or have not had enough votes to go through the National Assembly. We are talking about the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of the relative preferential vote that we are deciding on today. This law has been signed by 59 Members and Members. We need 60 votes. And another law, which is already prepared to some extent, is the transformation of election thefts in a way that the differences between the constituencies will be as small as possible. The Ministry of Public Administration, I think it's given an average of 19,000 voters and voters to the constituency. Given the fact that you will make the views of this law much more clear, I will end up at this point. However, I would only say this on behalf of the proposer that our sincere desire was to adopt this law, because we sincerely believe that the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a relative preferential vote would give the voter a significantly greater weight. A voter would have had a choice in some way. If I made a joke, I'd actually make a competition. Now a voter in a district can vote for one candidate, from one party, it is said, a political party or political parties can force a candidate in a district that the voter can elect. If the constituencies were abolished and eight constituencies were retained, 11 candidates and candidates of one party would compete within these units, and the elector would have a choice. It was extremely important for us to have a thorough debate this year, both Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Government, and there have been two solutions. We believe that the first solution before us today is to end the relative preferential voice, the solution that can improve our electoral system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mojca Ramšak Pešec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u74	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which has been tabled in the legislative procedure by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Branet Golubović, and has adopted the following opinion: The proposal of the Law has the objective, to a greater extent than is currently in force in the system, to ensure the decisive impact of voters on the allocation of seats to candidates and at the same time to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of November 2018. In its decision, the Constitutional Court found that the actual differences in the size of electoral thefts were so great that Article 4 of the Law on the Establishment of Electoral Units for the Election of Members to the National Assembly, which provides for an area of electoral thefts, was in such a disharmony with Article 20 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly that the principles of the rule of law set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia were violated. The constitutionality established must be abolished by the National Assembly within two years of the publication of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is until 21 December 2020. As already stated by the motion for a bill, the Constitutional Court's decision in particular requires the relevant amendments and additions to Article 4 of the Law on the establishment of constituency units for the election of Members to the National Assembly concerning the borders of electoral districts, but at the same time it also opens up the subject of possible changes to the electoral system in order to give the electorate and electorate to a greater extent a decisive impact on the appointment of candidates and candidates for election to the National Assembly. The solution that solves both of these problems is the introduction of a priority vote at the level of the constituencies. Arrangements that therefore resolve the issue of appropriate electoral borders in a way that eliminates or retains them only at administrative level. The bill is, as has already been pointed out, the result of broad, almost one-year political coordination, which began shortly after the adoption of the Constitutional Court decision, and was coordinated by the President of the Republic. All parliamentary groups were also included in this coordination. The coordination process was carried out in a gradual and transparent manner and the draft text of the proposed amendments to the law, followed to a large extent by the law, was introduced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in October 2019. The introduction of a priority vote by which voters can decide which candidate on the list of candidates to be elected is the most common way to enforce the principle of the personalisation of elections. Voters in the current regime are now unable to choose between different candidates of the same list, because in each constituency there is only one candidate on each list of candidates and the electorate cannot in fact choose between candidates, but only between the leaves in the constituency. The consequence of such an arrangement is that the electorate does not actually have an impact on the choice of individual candidates within the list of candidates, but can only vote for different lists, and thus the personalisation of the elections can only be seen. In accordance with the proposed regulation, a comparatively often established relatively optional preferred vote would be introduced in the draft law. In addition, it should be pointed out that the draft law also addresses some other issues or problems identified in the implementation of the elections in practice. Thus, for example, the draft law includes an amendment or simplification of the system for the election of members of the national communities. Some other proposals, particularly the National Election Commission, have also been taken into account in order to bring certain provisions into line with established practice. It also takes into account the recommendation of the Ombudsman, who has for a long time in his annual reports to draw attention to the need to extend the time limit within which voters in detention, hospital or institutional protection must notify the electoral commission that they wish to vote by post, which is to reduce the period from 10 days to 10 days before the date of the vote. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also supports the amendments that the proposer wants to ensure greater gender balance in the regulation of electoral rights or in the process of running. One of the important features of the electoral system is that the electoral system is simple and understandable to voters. While the Government is aware that elections to the European Parliament are not exactly comparable to the elections to the National Assembly, it should be pointed out that last year's European Parliament gave a priority vote to a specific candidate of 62 to 86% of voters who voted in favour of each vote. That the proposed system is adequate in terms of ensuring the decisive impact of the voters, the results of the 2019 European elections show, in which all eight sent mandates were divided on the basis of a priority vote. In accordance with the above-mentioned Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal supports the law and considers that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Elections are, as one of the most important expressions of human sovereignty, the basic condition of the democratic system, as well as the essential condition of every rule of law. Elections give members a mandate to decide on the most important social issues. From a legal point of view, elections thus give legitimacy to the exercise of the legislative authority and, from a political point of view, represent the active participation of people in the exercise of this authority. Talks about whether our electoral system is adequate or not have actually been going on since the adoption of the law since 1992. Some people think they're good, some people think they're bad, some people live up to their expectations, some people don't. The fact is, in recent times, there has been a decision by the Constitutional Court saying that something must be changed in this electoral system. One of the two legitimate changes that would mean the realization of the will of the Constitutional Court is also enshrined in the law before us today. Even more important than the fulfilment of the will of the Constitutional Court, in the opinion of the SAB, this law is because, finally, after many years of talking about it alone, it gives voters a greater chance of having an impact on who will be the specifically elected Member to represent them in Parliament. In our parliamentary system we have a proportional electoral system, and in the SAB party we are convinced that for a small country such as Slovenia and for a country with such a tradition as we have, also the political, proportional system is the only right. What this proportional system does not have is exactly what I was talking about a little while ago - there is no way that the electorate, except for deciding between the different parties, will decide in his constituency who will represent him. So, whoever his client put there must surround him, whether he likes it or not. In doing so, the electorate has no opportunity to reward the Members who are doing well or the Members who have proved themselves to be active in the work so far because they have been principled because they have stood up for a position that is close to the electorate. They also do not have the opportunity to punish a Member who is inactive who does not go to work that has not turned out. The will of the parties is completely abandoned. On the other hand – even the parties are part of a democratic electoral system – but also political parties cannot actually influence who will come to Parliament. Well, maybe someone will say, but it's not that simple. We also know in our customers who are people who will work, who are experts who can rely on them to study things, to look at them, to make it easy for them to perform in public. And people like that should be rewarded. And here, between the will of the electorate and the will of the party, we should seek balance. And that's exactly what makes the proposal that's before us today. It allows the electorate of some 11 people proposed by the party to choose who he thinks is worthy of being represented in Parliament. In doing so, it may follow the will of the party, if this is the case with him, but he may say no, I want him to go to Parliament who was put in third place by the party. The European elections we have held in our country several times have shown that people understand this system very well. And the system that we have in the European elections is now a system that we could also have in the national elections, with a very low threshold when an individual could skip. A relatively small number of votes could move someone up the ladder and thus against election. After the resignation of the Prime Minister of the Government, we proposed a project government to capture this historic opportunity when we had almost a constitutional majority of the votes and adopted a new electoral law in the National Assembly. This was a historic opportunity. And that's when we warned that if this law isn't passed now, it won't be under the new government. And that's what it turns out to be. In fact, 59 votes under this law were cast by all Members of all parties except SDS and Desus. In the meantime, Desus has already announced that they will reconsider whether they can support the law and, as I understand now with this new coalition, this was entirely expected, their decision is negative. I hear they've started, too. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] You're gonna tell me, Franc, if it's different, that's our information. I hear some others who have been signed have also begun to question. And I'm sorry if this historic opportunity is not accepted. I've always believed that we could manage this power and energy. Personally, I think that this would be the greatest, as I would say, result of this mandate, a very important change, but it seems that we will be running out of votes. If my colleagues demented me in this, of course, I would be so much more pleased. If this does not happen, not only will we not be left without this change, we will remain on the same electoral system as the Constitutional Court has also declared unconstitutional and causes great injustices. One fault is that Hrastnik has 3 Members, say, New City, Celje or Kamnik has none or one. The fault is that someone from Hrastnik will come to Parliament for a term of office with 300 votes and someone with many more votes from New City or Kamnik or Grosupljeg. And the biggest injustice is not to have those people come to Parliament who stand out as the party the most. And I'm not gonna start with our president, Karl Erjavec was Desus' first face for years. Our political system is most exposed to party presidents, and you know that many parties vote for them. And he didn't come to Parliament. And if I give a second example, the case of our client's president – working, determined, active in the previous mandate, I am sure that most people who supported the SAB have supported it as the first face and the most active carrier of this party. She didn't show. [[advertising from the hall]] My friend, would you stop bothering me, please? Mr. Hršak. Yeah. And they didn't support it, but it did get absolutely far the most votes, but in a relative number when it comes to percentages, this percentage was slightly smaller than someone who got a higher percentage in a very small district. If this is something that seems fair to all of you, and if this is something that expresses the will of people, then it is obviously between the will of people and between our views that something does not count. In short, if I finish. In the Sab party, we are convinced that we have a historic opportunity to adopt this law today, and we still hope that we will succeed until the last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u78	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! I will try, through the presentation of my views, to state the position of Desus, which in this case was mostly on the ground, in order to decide to support what you have proposed or 59 Members. At the same time, we also want to say that we have not been associated in any of these matters, but that this is purely our position, the position of the Desus Group and also of the Desus party. In the Republic of Slovenia in 1992 we are among the advocates of the majority system and advocates of the proportional system just before the present in law some kind of compromise unique electoral system. The electoral system has been subject to a referendum, a constitutional change, and every once in a while there is a tendency to change it. The fact is that the electoral system of each country reflects some political situation in society, political parties' concerns, real power relations, and certainly also affects how politics is shaped. While the majority system can be more effective for someone in the direction of implementation, large customers may be preferred, but it can quickly lead to bipolarity in politics or lead even to autocracy. On the other hand, the proportional system allows for the entry of a larger number of smaller customers, representing the diversity of views between citizens and citizens. It is true, however, that much more effort must be made to form a coalition after the elections. Thus, it is not possible to divide the electoral systems into better and worse, since each of these particular advantages and weaknesses. They need to be selected and adapted in accordance with the objectives pursued by the electoral system in the country, and in view of the needs of the country and of a number of other circumstances, also in view of the possibility of achieving the level of political consensus that allows for change at all. We are at the Desus Party and remain advocates of the proportional system. In this place, I strongly reject all evidence in the sense that we have submitted ourselves to the position of SDS, of course not. Our rejection of the bill under consideration, which removes electoral districts and is based on completely different arguments, as explained by the SDS, which are advocates of the majority electoral system, I reiterate that Desus advocates a proportional electoral system. In recent times, it has also highlighted several times in public whether any of our Members will contribute the missing voice needed to adopt this law. Allow me to clarify these doubts as well. All five of us Members of the Desus Group will vote against the abolition of election thefts. Our position is based on the following arguments. In its decision, the Constitutional Court first highlighted the size of the electoral districts and the relationship between the smallest and the largest constituencies. As a result, it has been pointed out that voter votes have different weights. The Constitutional Court in no place has highlighted the way in which the electoral system is conducted in terms of illegality or unconstitutionality, even more so, the Constitutional Court has made it clear that the applicable electoral system rules cannot deny the fulfilment of the condition on the decisive impact of the voters on the allocation of seats to candidates, so that the applicable electoral system is proportionately consistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has explicitly explained that the list-holders, as a rule, are political parties, have no decisive influence on which of their candidates will be Members of the National Assembly. Their impact is merely to determine in which constituency the candidates will run. They can only guess about the emancipation of individual candidates. It is also clear from the decision of the Constitutional Court issued following the famous decision referred to by the applicants that the current electoral system is as fully in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I quote: "The Constitutional Court has ruled that the arrangements for the allocation of sent mandates in the law in force ensure the decisive impact of voters on the allocation of seats to candidates because voters decide on who will be elected, but not on the candidates of the list of candidates." The proposed abolition of electoral thefts is a complete violation of the constitutional decision. But since the ambition of individual political parties, the signatures of the then amendment of electoral legislation – why? Because the reason for the change in the electoral system lies elsewhere in the new electoral formula. With it, the candidates are promising higher electoral success in the next state-run elections. Fortunately, in order to change the electoral system, a two-thirds majority protector is installed to adopt the law. Thus, this time's initiative, at least thus, should remain in the process of trying to change the electoral system, either by one vote or perhaps more. At this point, I must stress another criticism of the behaviour of the applicants. It is totally unhygienic and legally controversial that electoral legislation changes just before the announced early elections. Do you know how the procedure went? The previous Prime Minister, Marjan Sarec, told the media about his resignation on 28 January, the day after which the National Assembly was officially informed. Just two days after the vote on the high probability of early elections, the candidates tabled an amendment to the electoral legislation, and some of them made every effort to implement these changes before these early elections, which were scheduled for April or May. This is, in the opinion of the Desus Group, totally unacceptable. The principle is that the electoral system does not change at least the last year before the elections. This time, however, some were in a very, very hurry, under the pretext of the decisive influence of the electorate. Look, it's all about throwing sand in your eyes. However, I will not expose individual political parties and their representatives in this place, as they identify themselves. There's one more thing I need to point out. I am sorry that I have to talk about the infringements, so-called infringements, cannot be defined otherwise, a breach of an agreement reached at the level of all the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The agreement was unanimously concluded: a bill will be tabled in the parliamentary procedure, which will be achieved and sufficiently supported. The amendment to the legislation on the abolition of electoral thefts is therefore 60 plus the vote, while the applicants are one vote away. In the Desus Group we were surprised at the introduction of the law without sufficient signatures, because we trusted in the agreement reached. If we look back a little bit at the time when the consultation on both directions was about a change in electoral legislation at its peak, the reply of the President of the Government to the question of the electoral question clearly shows his willingness to abolish electoral thefts. In our opinion, President Borut Pahor of the Republic should not be allowed to do something like this, even after a consultation at the highest level, with the most prominent constitutional experts under the leadership of the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor. Allow me to thank the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, very much for his contribution and all the efforts made to move the change of electoral legislation from the dead point of order to achieve political consensus and thus remove the constitutionality established within the time limit. The President of the Republic has invested quite a bit of his energy. In short, let me get back to the content. The decision of the Desus Group to remain advocates for the preservation of electoral thefts is mainly a decentralisation. The abolition of electoral thefts, as proposed, leads, in our view, to centralisation, which would result in the exclusion of candidates from rural or periphery. Our country is a small country, so it is essential that Parliament reflects the reflection of Slovenian society. The abolition of electoral thefts would have put small political parties out of political life. The electoral system, which leads to a reduction in the number of parliamentary parties, can quickly lead to bilateral polarisation in the Republic of Slovenia. Is that what our citizens want? I'm sure you don't. The proposed system would lead to the start of national recognizables on the candidate lists. This gives priority to a male official from the center of the country to a local popular candidate, unburdened by the past. Such a way is not acceptable to us. The Constitutional Decision must be respected and the expression of the Constitutional Decision is clear - the unconstitutionality of the law which sets the limits of the electoral district. In the Desus Group, we advocate the elimination of the found unconstitutionality, but, as the High Authority has pointed out there, with a change in the boundaries of the constituencies, as the latter are no longer appropriate due to the excessive difference in the number of votes of voters. We regret to note that the Minister has not put so much effort into transforming the borders of electoral thefts as he has done in the abolition of a number of working councils and working meetings. The easiest thing to do is to reshape in accordance with all the warnings given by the Constitutional Court, both the number of voters and other criteria such as geographical, cultural, historical, infrastructure and other connections between voters in the area. In the parliamentary group, we sincerely hope that the new minister will find the necessary will, enough power to bite into this, we would say, sour apple and fully undertake the extremely difficult task of transforming the circuits, as the Constitutional Court has warned. However, this proposal, as has already been announced, will not be supported by Members of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group will be presented by the winner, Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you very much. It's hard to respond to stupidity and sausages in Desus' position. If nothing else, he must be told, Mr. Jurša, that there will be no elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u81	Victory, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u82	There won't be an election. There won't be an election for two more years.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u83	Comrade Jelinčič, please don't argue with the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u84	I know, it's just that, I mean, you have to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u85	You have your point. Desus told his story.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u86	It must also be said that the change in the thefts will throw out those who came in today at these elections. So I'm not going to name anyone, but I think we all know who's going to fly out of Parliament. Changing the thefts is not the solution, the only solution is to delete the borders and allow people to choose the best candidate from each customer. There will also be 11 candidates on this list, but people will be able to decide, yeah, this is the best, this is the most done in Parliament, those who would otherwise come by a small number and come by a small number in, but he was just babbling, doing stupid things and there was no use for the country. That's the point. But I don't understand why SDS is against this system. Because this system is one step closer to the majority system. And in this way, the party also defines its best candidates. And it was from the very beginning also the desire of the SDS to go into the majority system, but here we are an essential step closer. But I don't know why we're not doing this. What is to be said, however, is to thank Mr Pahor, who has convened eight meetings at which we have been babbling about the same things. But they were drafted in order not to change the system. This was his plan from the very beginning, and he didn't want it to change. So, Mr. President Pahor, thank you so much for screwing up the country. There's one more thing. It must be said that we also have Article 7 in the present law, which in fact says that all the elections so far have been illegal and illegal, because it says that it can be elected and can only be elected by those who are 18 years of age on the day of the election. Now tell me, in the history of Europe, how many people were 18 on election day! I don't think they'd find any. But our vast legal profession doesn't even understand it. Why is such an article written? For the reason that the then heirs of the Communist Party in 1992 were afraid that they would not get enough votes and that on this basis they would then challenge the elections. But because they got enough votes, they were quiet and quiet until today. Our legal profession, which is in the hands of Dr. Edward Cardell University, supports this, of course. It doesn't matter if there's anything in conflict with the law, because marriages need to be respected, not interpreting what's the point. You can interpret the Bible, interpret the Koran, but not the law, the law must be respected, and we do not know it. However, given that we opted for a customer system in 1992 a little earlier, I think this should be taken into account. And let's give the customers the opportunity to put the best candidates on their lists, not to go on a lottery without knowing who's coming in. And they usually come to Parliament in the vast majority of the people that I can say - even though it's ugly to hear that there are 30% of those who I wouldn't give them the job skills, and yet they are here and they are deciding about the country. They're making a decision about the country! Therefore, as it is, all things are perplexed, all things are broken. We have over 27,000 different laws, regulations, orders and so on! Where else did you see that? If we gather laws together from the ten most pro-pulsive European countries, I don't know if we can find 27,000 such documents. But we're smart, we're geniuses! We're geniuses, but minus, it's called, line, early is plus, but below is minus, and down there we're geniuses, very deep down. But to fix it?Oh, my God! Of course we won't. After all, we have another weird option. The strange option is that we have minority representatives in the National Assembly. They are representatives of the interested communities and these interested communities belong to the Council of State rather than to the National Assembly. And here, two representatives of minorities are elected twice, which is contrary to European rules and which the European Union has long warned us about, but we do not hear. They once elect their representative and then the representative of the political options they stand for. Again wrong world, but none of it matters to us, doesn't it, the main thing is that they have some pay, the main thing is that professors at the Faculty of Law at the FDV get big fees for writing laws that they should write in ministries, because ministries are paid to write laws. But no, the easiest way to give someone money is to tell them, you know what, you're gonna write this, you're gonna write it like this, we're gonna pay you 22,000 euros, you're gonna give me 7 thousand euros, and of course you're gonna give me a little less, because you're gonna have to deduct the tax from that fee, but we're gonna move on fine. That's why I hope when the new government comes along to bring these ministries together with the reorganisation. Reorganization can clean this up nicely. That's the only option when you don't have to pay for your retirement and when you can quietly rename the South Wind Department into the South Wind Department, you can throw 80 people out in the South Wind Department because you only need 10. That's wisdom. But this wisdom starts with the electoral system. And if we have such resistance in the electoral system to make matters easier to bring people closer to the choice they will choose, then I doubt whether some of Slovenia's wishes are to help and help Slovenian citizens or wish to disperse the country as much as possible. I hope that's not the case. I understand some who cannot vote in their conscience or not in their conscience, I do not know if they have, but, say, they must not vote in any other way than they are told and ordered. But one would say that in the Slovenian family we were just not like this, I would say, the ritualists, that we would just move away, but we always had one of our own pride and one of our own desires, and we were striving for something that was better for our country and for our citizens. But this, I don't know what's going on, what's going on. In Styrian, they'd say he's going to hell. And it's true. And it's true. And it's sad. We have some extremes here that don't care what happens, just so they're okay. So again, I repeat, if there is a change in the place, because something will have to happen, I don't know how people will be in, say, the Hrastnik will be pleased if they give them to Zagorje and half to Trbovlje, or if they will give one 25% of the district to Laško or say to Lithuania or I don't know where they'll combine it. Maybe it would be good to make one of those networks and put it on Slovenia, like in crosswords, A7 is going to vote, B9 is going to be that. We're going this way. In short, it's a complete joke. It's funny, it's totally funny. Of course, it would be funny to fuck with a country like that in Italy or in Croatia, but not there. We are. That's why it's basically a tragic laugh, a tragic comedy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities will be presented by Ferenc Horváth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Tisztet Hölgyim es Uraim, mindenka šep nat kivánok! Un cordiale saluto and tutti! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections in the National Assembly for Members of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian National Communities brings important news. According to the new Member of the Italian or Hungarian National Community, the election would be based on a one-way majority system and not more on the so-called board of the system. In addition, the candidate for a Member should collect 2% of the signatures of members of the Italian or Hungarian national communities who had electoral rights on the basis of a special electoral directory for members of the Italian or Hungarian national communities. Although the Members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities have contributed their signature to the proposal for the amendment of this law, we will not vote on it in a single vote. The Council of the Coastal Self-Governmental National Community of the Italian National Community, the Community of Autogestita Costier della Nazinalità Italiana, has already unanimously supported these amendments at the time of the consultation of the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor and will therefore vote in favour of the proposal for a law by the Italian National Community Member Felica Žiž. The Council of the Hungarian Self-Governmental Community, but Muravidéki Magyar, has no unified opinion on the amendments, so I will abstain from voting in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Whenever there is a debate on electoral systems in that body, which is also a constitutionalist, it is said in the National Assembly, it is also a test whether we are just politicians or to what extent we are statesmen. Because it is a question of how much you can master your personal interests and how much you put the interests of the community at the forefront. Every electoral system, this science is completely unified, truly united, because every electoral system in every country has a different effect. There is no ideal electoral system that in all the countries of this world would act the same and have the same positive effects, on the contrary. Why is this happening? Because each electoral system is essentially linked to all the other elements that make up society and manage it or, if you want, direct its organisation. Thus, the electoral system depends on political culture, on general culture, on democratic tradition, on history, on all those elements that affect the behaviour of people who influence their values, on the design of their values. And, of course, any policy should be based on values. Today we have another debate on the electoral system. It is at some point, now after quite a number of years since the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It's been over a quarter of a century since then. It's almost 30 years. And this is the point where I should really also assess the situation that we are, if we are statesmen, if we can do this. For this is but an introduction to that decision which is before us today, and to that which is indeed a fact which no man can deny. When we gained independence, we were in front of some other countries, such as Poland, and some others, not according to the criteria of something better, we were four to five times ahead of them, four to five times. Today, these countries have rushed us to the left and to the right, and by all the criteria, some have virtually left us completely behind. One of the key problems facing Slovenia all the time is its electoral system. Every electoral system in the country, if it is to function normally, must meet at least two conditions: people must have a real feeling, a just feeling that they are involved in co-forming and managing this system, because by constitution, ladies and gentlemen, the authority of the people has power. The Slovenian Constitution is very simple, Article 1 “Slovenia is a democratic republic”. Article 2 “Slovenia is a legal and social state.” And then comes that second paragraph of Article 3, which says, "In Slovenia, the people have power." It shall be implemented directly and in accordance with the principle of the division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial matters. And in order to be able to implement this principle, there are, of course, periodic secret elections here, which must meet all the democratic criteria if we want this to be successful. What is the attitude in Slovenia, whether people really believe that these elections meet this criterion, is reflected in participation. Unfortunately, participation has been declining throughout the years, throughout the decades of independent Slovenia. At present, it is only around the poor half and is far from participating in some other countries. What's the reason? People just don't believe that their voice really matters anymore. This is one of the main problems. The second problem is the one I started with — a developmental problem. What should electoral legislation, constitutional arrangements as a whole, be given to ensure that the country develops as much as possible? A stable, developmental, economic environment. Which means that on the day of the elections, when a people with the sole power, by the constitution and by all democratic standards in force in the democratic world, would decide, would know who the power is and who the opposition is. And this power would have been stable for four years so that entrepreneurs and people, every citizen for themselves, every citizen for themselves, could plan their future, roughly know which way to go. The system in which we are, unfortunately, does not meet any of these criteria. How did we end up at that point? Once a Slovenian so-called writing constitution was written. There, in a wider circle, I had the opportunity to cooperate, which I consider to be a great honor. You won't believe it. That constitution was written for the majority electoral system. It was written for the consistent implementation of the principle of liability. Even the recall of the official, including the Member, was envisaged, if you want, by a special referendum, if you do not comply with what he has committed to the electorate, or if you have gravely violated the law and done everything that is not allowed in a democratic state of law. Then, when the first assembly was formed, compromises were sought and therefore only the principle of the election of 90 Members, 2 of them belonging to minorities, was enshrined in the Constitution. This was true of the referendum I led in 1996, when we first collected 43 000 710 in history, if memory does not deceive me, the signatures of the electorate and the electorate, and there happened what is essential in democracy. People made a crystal clear decision, the biggest vote was for the majority electoral system. Then, of course, there were a number of complications, but the Constitutional Court decided that this was valid and that this should also be legalized. Unfortunately, in Slovenia the Constitution is not only changing with a shaking hand, but, at least in this case, with shaking pants, we are now witnessing a situation in which children should learn in schools but not. Children are taught in schools that the old Yugoslavia had an octorated constitution. However, they do not learn that we have an octroated article in the Slovenian Constitution. What does "octroated" mean? Unlike the clearly expressed human will. And this article speaks of proportional elections. Article 80, last paragraph: “They shall be elected according to the principle of proportional representation at a four - percent electoral threshold. ” [[…]] [[…]] And this article is one of the reasons we're here today. But this article, ladies and gentlemen, should be put aside once. With this debate I have always started when we were with President Pahor, those who were there, you know this very well, every negotiation we had. If we were statesmen, if we were to act stately, we should first delete this article from the Constitution, this unfortunate last paragraph, and then discuss what Slovenia really needs, what it needs for its development, what it takes for people to participate again, to fully participate in the realization of their constitutional right, their authority and to participate in the management of their country. That would be the right starting point. I am aware that in Parliament, where there are many small parties, it is virtually impossible to reach within a reasonable time frame or, if you want, in human life, probably, most of them in order to legislate a two-way majority electoral system. But what I should have started to talk to you once, ladies and gentlemen, and what I hoped to do at that time with Pahor was unfortunately not possible except at the first meeting, but what this country needs. This country needs a stable system that will provide a framework for us to have a stable economic environment for four years and that people will believe that their vote will be decided again. There's a lot to be done in this direction. One possibility, for example, is a combination of two systems. One small part, for example, given that 88 Members and Members are actually elected by general vote, 32 of them could be elected by a one-way majority electoral system, the rest being a large majority, and proportionally. This would preserve everything, including smaller parties, no one could say that this leads to extinction, but that first part would allow equal representation to be maintained irrespective of the way in which the second part is elected and, on the other hand, to achieve greater stability of the economic and development system. This could be one way to compromise, and there are many others. Many like the German electoral system, which is special, because there — for those you do not know — the German Parliament does not have a specific number of Members and Members, but for smaller parties who do not get enough elections in the first round, so the number of seats in the German Parliament is increasing, so there is usually no call by the German Parliament to the same number as the previous one. This is, of course, not possible in the current regulation of the Slovenian Constitution, but this would also be one of the possible solutions. But the first and the main step would be to agree once that we are as state-owned as we were at the time of the creation of the Slovenian state. And that this article, which is octrolated and imposed, is thrown out and looked at what, for God's sake, this country needs to do more to enforce the principle of responsibility, to create a stable developmental environment, to attract people to co-decision again so that they can participate more and more freely in the management of their country. Only such a country can succeed in the long term. There are so many examples of this as there are successful countries in this world. And then we're at the point we're at today. Actually, it's a little different here. The Constitutional Court has on several occasions ruled electoral law, as it was after the amendment of the Constitution, of course. What did it say a few times? That the constituencies, if the ratio between the smallest and the largest is up to 1:3, are perfectly fine, that this is still consistent with the Constitution. Now the last decision was slightly different and said that if this is exceeded and in Slovenia it is exceeded, the ratio is now about there to 1.375, which then affects the issue of passive and active electoral rights. From this point of view, this is constitutionally controversial and needs to be corrected. It didn't prescribe the way, the ways are here anymore. One way is very simple – the current government did not want to hear about it – is that only to repair some of the largest and smallest thefts, not all networks need to be changed in the same parts where people have accepted it well, and it is achieved again to bring everything into ratio 1:3. For those who don't master mathematics too much, it's the ratio of deviation plus minus 50, 50 to 150 is 1 : 3, if we go to this calculation. This would also be a very simple solution, but I personally hope and believe that sooner or later this will be a temporary solution, which will give us time to sit together and consider a different system, to change that article in the constitution, to do something that will allow Slovenia more responsibility, exercise of responsibility and, of course, faster development. The dilemma that lies before us today is, in fact, very aside in some way, if you will. It is indeed a matter of implementing a constitutional decision, but in any case we will still have this unfortunate proportional electoral system, in which every time the government is hostageing those smallest parts of it, and on the other hand, because of the fact that, of course, there is a decision on who is the authority and who is the position, not with the elections themselves, but after them - this mandate is a perfect proof of this, now that the will of the people is being realized and some strongly oppose it; by the way, they show that they are not democratic, but that is their right, because in such a system we live - such a system is not effective, ladies and gentlemen. Now this dilemma is just whether you keep the edges or go to the list. The list allows for some choice between names, which is its advantage. Now I stress once again what I started: no system is ideal, everyone has advantages and weaknesses. The second allows for significantly more equal representation or coverage of the territory or election thefts by elected Members by maintaining the electoral thefts. So each one has his own advantages and weaknesses. What is the problem with Slovenia right now? The Slovenian problem is too centralisation. The countryside in many parts is dying, dying. It's a process that's come about over a series of years. If this process is to be stopped, everything will have to be done to maintain as much cooperation as possible and to ensure that the territory is covered as possible in the representative bodies, which, of course, requires that we maintain the electoral borders. This is why we decided in the SDS that what is proposed today will not be supported. However, we would like to stress this once again as a sincere hope that one day, and hopefully as soon as possible, we will be able to sit together, that those unfortunate impoverished, octroated, contrary to the clearly expressed human will, as last paragraph of Article 80, we will be removing from the Slovenian Constitution and then discussing what Slovenia needs for rapid, successful, good development, for the well-being of people. Because that's what we're really here for. That's what separates politics from a statesman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. About a year ago, we started our first talks on amending electoral legislation to successfully eliminate the unconstitutional situation established by the Constitutional Court. The result of all these efforts is the novelism that we are considering today. Let me point out a few key points that have led the Constitutional Court to establish the unconstitutionality of the Electoral District Act for the election of Members to the National Assembly. We've got too much difference between the size of the individual circuits. As a result, this leads to an unequal number of voters in individual districts, which means that the vote of one voter, who, for example, is elected in the district of Hrastnik, which is one of the smaller electoral districts, by weight or by influence, is clearly unequal to the voter's vote, say, in the constituency of Grosuplja or Celje, which are considered to be the larger constituency. Today, the voter's vote from the smallest constituency is significantly stronger, with only a few more than 350 votes elected by the electorate there, while more than two or three thousand votes are needed in the larger constituencies for election to the National Assembly. This inequality, which I have just illustrated, which will be in the eyes and on a simple case, is something that we can quickly understand why the constitutional decision requires us to amend the legislation so that every voter in this country will have the same electoral right. Otherwise, there is no dispute, and this has to be acknowledged, but with the change in the boundaries of the election thefts we could achieve this. We could even successfully implement the constitutional decision, but we could, perhaps within a few years, run into the exact same problem that we are facing today, as demographic and migration changes will certainly lead to the fact that the borders will once again become uneven by the number of voters who vote in them. In this way, we will once again have an unconstitutional position in which the voice of one voter will be significantly more difficult than the voice of another voter. In the opinion of the LMŠ Group, such electoral legislation, which would require the National Assembly to keep changing it over and over again after a certain period, would bring confusion, uncertainty and destabilisation to our electoral system. Therefore, in our view, the only logical solution is to abolish the constituencies, to introduce a single list of candidates at the level of the electoral unit, and to introduce a relatively optional preferred vote, with which voters will have a decisive impact on the election of representatives of the legislative branch of power. To date, we have heard quite a few criticisms and concerns about the proposed amendment of electoral legislation, with the two being key. To somehow suppress rural areas and to fail to satisfy the constitutional content laid down in article 80 of the Constitution that the electorate must have a decisive impact on the allocation of mandates to candidates. In this place, let me answer everyone once more. No, by wiping out electoral thefts, we do not kick out rurals or candidates coming out of the rural environment, but we do the opposite. With the abolition of electoral thefts, we are giving more opportunities and opportunities to candidates from the rural environment, as they could address a wider range of voters than they are now. Furthermore, no, by introducing a relatively non-binding priority vote, we do not violate the constitutional provision which says that the vote of the electorate must be decisive when granting the terms of office to candidates. It's the opposite. If we look at the current regime, there is only one candidate from each party in the individual constituency, and when the voter chooses which party he will vote for, he cannot choose which candidate he will give his vote to, but he is forced to elect the candidate designated by the party in a given district. Therefore, according to today's electoral system, the electorate has no decisive influence over which candidate will be given a mandate and is replaced by a party which, if we recognize it or not, can manipulate future mandates in such a way as to place those candidates who are actually interested in having them in the National Assembly. On the other hand, a relatively non-binding priority vote and the abolition of the thefts would in fact allow the electorate to have a decisive impact on who of the candidates would be given a mandate, since the electorate could choose between 11 candidates of the same party who would run in the electoral unit, but could eventually also decide to trust the choice of the party he would elects and would not give his preferred vote. In doing so, I would like to express my will to agree with the priority order of candidates as set out by the party. However, we must be aware that we are living in a party parliamentary democracy where an individual candidate for an MP is running on the basis of the party's programmes, so in our opinion we must also give the electorate the right to choose this option to choose the party's preferences. For that is how the electorate expresses his will. Therefore, the idea that a voter with a relatively optional priority vote will not have a decisive impact is not true. These two aspects seem crucial to us in the LMŠ Group and, above all, we should support today's amendment of the law because of these two aspects. In our view, opposition to the abolition of the thefts actually means the struggle of some individual Members and their parties to keep primate in certain constituencies. On the other hand, the opposition to the introduction of a relative optional priority vote actually represents a fight to ensure that the party remains one and only, i.e. the one who chooses and affects which of its candidates will have real chances of being elected to the National Assembly. In the LMŠ Group, we find such opposition unconstitutional, because we should all be aware that we are in the service of the people, our constituents, and that is why these same voters have the right to choose among the greater options. More specifically, after this bill, the electorate will have the right to choose between the 12 options, on the one hand between the eleven candidates proposed by the party and, on the other hand, to choose the priority order of candidates designated by the party that elects him. The proposed amendment of the law will therefore satisfy the constitutional decision and successfully eliminate the unconstitutional situation while giving the elector an effective tool to decisively influence the allocation of sent mandates. We probably all know that we are running out of time to implement a constitutional decision, but I do not know if we are all aware that if this novel fails, it will be necessary to draw again the limits of the electoral districts, where a number of factors will have to be taken into account in a consistent manner if we want to have a fair margin, and yet, as we can see in the coordination we have so far, we will have to meet some other individual Members or political parties who are fiercely defending their territory. As a result, the LMŠ Group believes that agreement between parliamentary parties will be even more difficult to obtain, although a smaller majority will be needed. Election legislation needs to be amended by the end of this year and, in our opinion, we already have a very good proposal on the table today, and we will therefore support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u94	Dear Vice President, Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! It seems that in the light of the fact that we already have two coronary diseases in Slovenia, that we are forming a new government, that the government is leaving, this topic is irrelevant, but no, I think it is an extremely important topic. This is the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, which we must adopt by the end of the year if we are to follow the Constitutional Court's decision. As already mentioned, at the end of 2018, the Constitutional Court adopted one of its major decisions concerning the elections and the electoral system. Not only because, in one part of the electoral legislation, it found non-conformity with the Constitution, but also because it rejected quite a few of the alleged non-constitutionalities of the same legislation. Let us not forget that the Council of State, which has applied for a constitutional review, does not want to stop at the system of voting in the Council of State, has affirmed the unconstitutionality of electoral legislation in five segments, but the Constitutional Court has rejected four out of five. At the time of the publication of the decision, the Constitutional Court stated in its press release, among other things: "The Constitutional Court found that the areas of electoral districts after 26 years of the adoption of electoral legislation no longer comply with any of the criteria laid down in Article 20 of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly concerning the same number of inhabitants, geographical rounding and the highest possible integrity of the municipalities. In Article 4 of the Law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly, which provides for the area of electoral thefts, the law is in breach of the third, fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 20 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly that the principles of the rule of law referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution are violated. However, the constitutionality established must be abolished within two years.« And this second year will be the end of this year. There is no doubt that amendments to electoral legislation are necessary to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision and to remedy the unconstitutional situation. We are aware of this, so from the very beginning we have been constructively engaged in parliamentary consultations with the President of the Republic, where sufficient political consensus has been sought to produce optimal legal solutions. And no, dear Victory Jelinčič, it is not the president of the country's fault that we are here today, where we are, for this we are guilty of political parties and, I will say, perseverance in certain matters. In the professional public, however, the view prevailed that two paths had been opened from here on out. The first possibility is that the current constituencies will be transformed in a way that is comparable to that of the population, but at the same time adequately geographically rounded. Another option is to decide to end the electoral thefts and to introduce one of the preferred ballots. Today we are considering a proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, supported by the Social Democrats. It was the result of many past talks and consultations between all parliamentary parties. We've reached a common denominator. And what is this bill? I'd like to say it for the people as well. In the first place, it's the abolition of the election thefts. The constituencies remain only in administrative terms, which means that the District Election Commission is maintained as those electoral bodies which have a very important responsibility in the conduct of the elections and in the referendum at national level. The abolition of electoral thefts is urgently requiring the introduction of one of the forms of preferential voting if we are to enable voters to make a real choice between candidates and candidates on the list. We know that there has been quite a public debate on this issue and a lot of ink spilled. The draft law provides for the application of a relative and optional preferential vote, so this is the exact same way of voting as we know in the elections of Members and Members of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. The voter is thus left to decide whether to give the preferred vote to individual candidates or candidates on the list or not and will only vote for the list. In both cases, the voice mail would be valid. The practice of past elections to the European Parliament has shown that this is a form of vote that is understandable to voters. It is therefore not surprising that to a large extent they also decide to give a preferential vote. In this form of vote, however, an important order of candidates and candidates on the list is important. The fact is that the holders or carriers of the sheets have a primary advantage in the possibility of electing from other candidates or candidates on the same list. Therefore, the proposal for a law as a correction of the original advantages of the list holders introduces such a low threshold if we can call it that. This threshold is now set at 4.5% of the total number of votes received by the candidate list in the electoral unit. Plastic, what does that mean? If the candidate list in the electoral unit receives 10,000 votes and thus receives one term for the National Assembly, the individual candidate or candidate at the head of the list should, of course, receive at least 450 preferred votes for her election, provided that no other candidate or candidate on the list receives a higher number of preferential votes. And that's all math. However, it is very important for the Social Democrats that the proposal for a law also introduces an equalization of the percentage of sex quotas in candidacy to 40%. This percentage already applies to local and European elections, while the elections to the National Assembly currently account for a percentage of 35, and each political party has the option to increase this percentage further by means of its acts. Critics of the current regime as one of its fundamental shortcomings underline the fact that the electorate has no choice between different candidates and candidates for the same list. They like to talk about a certain candidate being imposed on them in some way and they have to surround it if they want to give a vote to the party they support. However, the bill gives voters and voters a choice, as they will be able to choose between a total of 11 candidates or candidates for any list of political parties that will run in the electoral unit. The bill allows political parties to resolve by which they will run under the same serial number on the list in all eight constituencies in the country. This will make it important to facilitate and, last but not least, appreciate the electoral campaign, which is of great importance in the face of growing financial problems for political parties and all the frequent elections. As the Social Democrats have said, we have actively participated in the drafting of this bill. With all our ideas, unfortunately, of course we failed, but we were looking for a common denominator. We therefore estimate that the proposal could be even better. We have remained virtually alone in the proposal to provide for the principle of dominance in candidateing on the list in the law. Why? With this – what Mr Hršak fears and the like – we could have people living in the constituency, meet people there and run there. Social Democrats would like to draw attention to one more thing that we have consistently despised in all debates on electoral legislation and is not the subject of debate. We talk a lot about the greater choice of voters, about such and different forms of preferential vote, we talk a lot about the different sizes of electoral thefts and the unequal position of candidates and candidates also because of the fact that there will be no confusion, these are very important issues that require a lot of attention – and we almost never say that there are increasing differences in the number of electoral and electoral units every year. Also because of demographic movements, we have come into the situation where the largest constituency is Ljubljana Bežigrad, already 226 thousand voters, the smallest Novo mesto from where I come from, and there are only 2 thousand 200 voters. The difference in the number of voters is more than 10%, but the same number of Members and Members is chosen from both constituencies, that is 11. As a result, we can see that there is a marked inequality between the voters of the two constituencies. It will therefore be necessary to balance the size of the constituencies in the future, which requires appropriate amendments to the Law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly. In the end, I wish this law had been passed. I also know the reality that this law will not receive 60 votes today. However, as I said, the Social Democrats will continue to participate in amending this legislation, whether we will re- table the law or change the electoral boundaries, we have a few months to go. True, those who now take power or take power in our country will have to have a little more obedience and a little more will to do so. Social Democrats will support this law, which is on the table today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u96	In modern constitutional regulations, electoral rights are one of the fundamental political rights of citizens and citizens, as set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution in Article 3 clearly states that in Slovenia it has authority over the people. Citizens and citizens exercise this right directly and through elections. The elections that elect their representatives are a condition for democratic power-building. In the broadest sense, however, the electoral system can be defined as the sum of all rights and obligations, as well as the measures and procedures laid down by the rules relating to elections. The electoral system has determined who has the right to vote, how elections are organised, how mandates are shared, how electoral rights are protected and so on. In the SMC we note that there is no universal recipe for creating an electoral system that meets all expectations. Each country forms its own electoral system and is affected by a number of factors, such as democratic tradition, political culture and could still be listed. With the constitutional change in 2000, the electoral system in the Republic of Slovenia was also regulated at constitutional level in Article 80, paragraph 5, which made it part of constitutional matter, which means that it cannot be changed without a change of constitution. In Slovenia, a proportional system is thus prescribed for the election of Members to the National Assembly. Under this system, mandates are to be allocated in proportion to the support given to individual candidates and lists at the group elections. To enter the National Assembly, a four-percent electoral threshold is laid down. Lists that have not collected at the level of the whole country at least four per cent of the votes shall not participate in the division of sent-mail mandates. Some specific features of the majority system are also introduced in the voting mode and are expected to have a greater impact on personal choice. In this context, a number of different versions of this system are possible, but the constitutional dictatorship has ruled out those in which voters vote, for example, only on the list and have no impact on the allocation of mandates to candidates because it requires the decisive influence of voters on the allocation of seats to individual candidates. In this regard, it is worth noting that the constitutional review extended to the question of the electoral system by means of the Constitution. As a result, the legislator cannot define any electoral system that belongs to the majority of the electoral systems or to a proportional electoral system that does not provide for the influence of the electorate. Of course, this also means that the legislator has free hands in these frameworks when choosing the appropriate electoral system. The Constitutional Court touched on this issue in its decision of 2018, when it found that Article 4 of the Law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly, which lays down the areas of electoral thefts, was inconsistent with the Constitution. Article 4 of the Law on the establishment of constituencies challenged by the Council of State determines which municipalities belong to an individual constituency and which areas include constituencies. According to the Constitutional Judges, the article is contrary to the Constitution because it no longer meets the criteria laid down by the Electoral Law in the National Assembly after 26 years. The Constitutional Court therefore ordered the National Assembly to carry out non-compliance within two years of the publication of the decision in the Official Journal, until 21 December 2020. At the same time, it stated in its decision that the choice between voting methods on candidates is a question of the appropriateness of the legislation and falls within the field of discretion of the legislator, which, of course, should follow the said constitutional mother on the decisive impact of the electorate on the allocation of seats to individual candidates. The Constitutional Court's decision, as we have heard today, is to be implemented in two ways, by amending the law on the establishment of constituency units for the election of Members to the National Assembly or by changing the borders of electoral districts or by amending the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and voting methods for candidates. More than changing the electoral borders, in the SMC we advocate the amendment of the Electoral Law to the National Assembly, such changes to the electoral system, which will ensure the greater impact of voters on the election of their representatives in the National Assembly. Voters in the current electoral system cannot choose among the different candidates on the list of candidates, since there is only one candidate in each election district on each list of candidates and the voter does not actually vote for the selected candidate, but he is voting for the vote in the electoral unit. The consequence of such an arrangement is that the electorate does not actually have an influence on the choice of individual candidates within the list of candidates, but can only vote in different lists. Therefore, in the existing proportional electoral system, we need to make changes to enforce the principle of the personalisation of elections, which will allow for the election of those candidates who will actually receive the largest number of votes. The latter makes it possible to complement the proportional electoral system with a so-called preferential vote and to abolish electoral thefts. From the point of view of the voter's decisive influence on the election of Members, there is no doubt that there is a weakness in the current regime that the electoral borders are different, not only in their size and other characteristics, but also in the way in which political parties or lists are anchored or successful in each other's constituencies. The influence of political parties by including candidates in the so-called electoral constituencies is inadequately strong in the current system, such as determining the order of candidates on their candidate lists, since it in practice narrows the decisive influence of voters, not only on the candidates, but also on the election of Members. Therefore, in the SMC, together with the other co-proposers of this amendment, we propose amendments to implement the principle of the personalisation of elections, which will allow for the election of those candidates who will receive the largest number of votes. The latter, however, makes it possible to complement the proportional electoral system with a preferential vote and to modify or abolish electoral thefts. A proposal for a preferential vote is also considered to be the same as the one in force. When the voter comes to vote, the choice is based both on political party programmes and on the candidate offered. It is equal in the same way as in the current system, with the difference that it has 11 candidates ahead of it in the constituency and not just one candidate in the district. In this case, too, the voter will weigh whether he is more convinced by the party and its programme or by the team offered by the party. It is still a choice between different parties as in the current system, only choice is wider. However, the impact of the voters on the election of Members is decisive – at least this is what the last elections to the European Parliament show. All elected Members in the last European elections were elected by preferential vote. We are therefore in favour of a relative preferential vote in the SMC, which is similar to the European Parliament's elections. This is already well-established and understandable to voters and, as already mentioned, also gives results. In particular, in the SMC, we would point out that, at the same time, in the amendments to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, we have also achieved an improvement in the proportion of gender representation in candidateing. We believe that there is a need to improve the gender balance in political positions and public functions. The recommended minimum, for example proposed by the Council of Europe, is 40% of each gender, and we have therefore joined in amending the current regulation, the so-called sex quotas, which unjustifiably distinguish the proportion of gender representation in the lists of candidates laid down by the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which provides for 35%, on the one hand, and the Law on Local Elections and the Law on Elections to the European Parliament, on the other hand, which sets a 40% quota. Therefore, no sex should be represented with less than 40% at the elections of the National Assembly on the candidate list. The latter is recorded both in our electoral programme and in the periodic plan for the implementation of the resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men covering the period 2015 and 2020, which was adopted by the previous government under the guidance of the SMC. The difference between the current and proposed participation in the list of 11 candidates and candidates in the electoral unit would mean that in the case of one of the genders, the latter would obtain one or more candidates. In the SMC, we believe that this difference is extremely important because it would positively upgrade the instrument of the so-called sex quotas, which has been adopted since long ago in 2006, in order to provide greater opportunities for equal representation of women and men in the performance of public functions. The examples of the most developed European countries show that the development of democratic processes tends to seek a balanced representation of men and women in political decision making that, or women in the 21st century, women will become more closely involved in political decision-making in predominant male politics. The 19th and 20th centuries brought women an active election right or election vote. In the 21st century or today, the emphasis is on passive electoral rights or equal opportunities for men and women to run and perform public functions. And that's it. The claims that the first step towards marginalisation of rural areas has been made by excluding mayors from the National Assembly and that the proposed electoral system is still a continuation of rural marginalisation are unrealistic. Why? Analysis shows that the proportion of rural Members in the entire history of the elections has never been lower than 40%. Even more. The analysis of the State Election Commission in 2014 has even shown that in electoral districts, which do not reach the average number of voters, there is a higher number of seats than in those that exceed that average. At that time, there were no MPs who had an average of over 23,000 voters. In the SMC, we point out that the attachment of candidates to the constituency alone means a too modern concept of representative democracy. A so-called representative mandate has been introduced for members of Parliament in a modern representative democracy. Since Members are representatives of all the people, they should also act for the benefit of the whole people and not just for the well-defined groups of voters elected in the constituency, as some believe. The Member should not follow individual interests, as this would destroy the importance of the General Representation or the importance of Article 82 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. As a result, in 2011 the National Assembly decided not to have mayors, since they are obliged to represent the interests of their municipalities, which is contrary to its mandate. In the SMC Group of Members, we point out that the Council of State represents social, economic, professional and local interests, or special interests, and it would therefore make sense for critics to focus primarily on its composition, the role and manner of electing representatives of local interests, as well as their actions or the representation of local interests, which, at this point in time, are increasingly subordinated to the party's conduct. Some representatives or presidents of political parties even publicly boast with their saintly groups and even with their leaders of party councils within the State Council. In the SMC Group, we will be united in our support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! I'm sure the law that's on the bench today isn't ideal. I don't think anyone's holding their eyes to this. It is, however, a minimum consensus representing a consensus, a common denominator for 59 Members and Members of this National Assembly. What was the reason for the change in electoral legislation, we have heard many times today. The Constitutional Court just said, it just wrote numbers. Ratio 1: 3.73 Hrastnik with 8 thousand 301 voters, Grosuplje on the other hand with almost four times, 30 thousand 991, which tells us that the weight of the voice in this country is uneven or that the voices in Hrastnik are four times heavier than one voice in Grosuplje. What the Constitutional Court has found is that we have a problem with the constituencies. What is, regardless of what the State Council has demanded in its offensive, and here I join the opinion of those who say that the electoral system for the election of state councilors should also be taken into account. One is that the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly is inconsistent with the Constitution, because it clearly speaks of the outcome of the elections in relation to the voting shares in the constituencies. And that the entire section 4 of the law establishing the constituencies is inconsistent with the Constitution. This is practically the majority of the laws that have five articles. The first three determine the constituencies, and that's all the constituencies. In fact, only two ways have been possible since this decision by the Constitutional Court. The first was that, and this is also the most rational, the electoral boundaries were abolished, and the second was to try to change the electoral boundaries in such a way that their relationship or relationship between them was equal. In Levica, before this decision of the Constitutional Court, we have already written into our electoral programme and advocated a simple solution, this is the introduction of lists by electoral units by the abolition of electoral thefts. This is also the only viable solution, as we have seen in this process, since the President of the Republic began to coordinate with regard to amendments to this legislation, because drawing new borders on electoral thefts is thus impossible if we want to follow what the Constitutional Court has written. For the constituencies, it states that, in addition to the same number of voters, geographical rounding and the common cultural and other characteristics of these areas, they are called electoral thefts. As has already been said, after the negotiations by the President of the Republic and also by consensus of parliamentary parties, the Ministry of Public Administration has prepared, together with simulation experts, how to redraw these constituencies, which would in particular achieve some arithmetical uniformity with regard to the number of voters. What was the result of this process was a map which, at least in some cases, deviated from the above-mentioned definition of election thefts. The closer this map was to the same number of voters, the further away it was from these socio-geographical conditions, which include legislation. Even if by some miracle such constituencies were to be drawn, they should in fact be repaired, updated for a few years or for a period of four or five years purely because of demographic and other social trends, where there is, of course, population fluctuations, including the festivities of certain areas. The second argument in favour of abolishing electoral thefts is the very concept of the electoral system. Since the introduction of the Slovenian proportional system has never been so regulated as to ensure the representation of individual districts in the National Assembly, so we have the State Council, so we once had a Congregation Assembly and so on. But Article 82 of the Constitution makes it very clear that Members are representatives of all people. As we have heard before mine, we are not here to represent the interests of regions, thefts, places and so on, we are here to work for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. Of course, there is also a need for a certain connection to our own environment, including knowledge of the different needs of different regions. But this also allows us the law on Members, which gives us the opportunity or in some way it is also the duty of each individual Member or Member to act on the ground in its constituencies. So this aspect is kind of satisfactory. What we have to admit, of course, is that in Slovenia the government or the de facto party system prevails. Regardless of how much we want to change legislation, even with some constitutional entries that have been conditioned by fear of a central committee or client's instructions, we have to admit that we actually have a party in Slovenia. Now, irrespective of the different opinions, this is what is at the heart of the current electoral system. I also agree with those who say the programme is the one the Member must represent in the National Assembly. Finally, on the basis of the programme proposed by the list or by the party, it is also elected. These are some of the views that I believe all should insist on them for all four years, but not in the course of the mandate to change them. Proponents of the majority system, of course, insist even more so that the electorate must have a decisive vote in the election of the candidate. We can agree on that. Although we could also add picro, who I have the influence if not the voters who actually give the vote, but this is achieved in this bill by introducing the preferred vote. The preferred vote is the one that allows some kind of electoral guard to say no, I will not trust the list, as the candidate put it, but I will decide that this candidate who I think deserves to come to the National Assembly needs to come. I think that, according to the experience of the elections to the European Parliament, it is clear that this mechanism in elections and voters is more than understandable, more than well-adopted. Finally, at the last European Parliament elections, every Member has been elected by preferential vote. These two main solutions, i.e. the vote for the ballots in the constituencies and the introduction of the preferential vote, also go in the direction of uniting electoral legislation. Now we have some relative confusion in this area. We already have at local elections two systems, proportional and majority, then somehow a special form of a proportional system at national level and then another system at European level. These changes would at least unify all three levels, i.e. the European, national and local electoral system. This would help voters who are sometimes confused, even if these elections are very close. It is certainly worth mentioning the minor cosmetic corrections concerning gender balance on the leaves. Of course, the current 35%, which is still in force, is indeed an insufficient minimum, so that it rises to 40%, unfortunately it does not even go due to 11 seats in electoral units, is said to be impossible to do the right fraction. But this, I would like to stress, is certainly not enough if we really want to achieve gender balance not only in representative bodies, but in fact the whole. Here we will need a much more important social shift, which is not dependent and cannot depend only on quotas, which are a form of positive discrimination and as such welcome, but definitely not enough. Another thing is the cut-off date or vacatio legis for the entry into force of this law, which is set at the deadline set by the Constitutional Court to the legislator for the implementation of these amendments, i.e. the end of this year. With the introduction of the law, let's face it, it was some sort of security guard against concerns that the law would change directly from the elections that were still in the air. So we say that the opportunists have not come to these elections, so today we can also discuss this proposal with a slightly more sober head or a calmer soul if you want. As mentioned in the introduction, marriage is not ideal, and it has some problems. Here I would like to point out in particular the provision on the drawing of numbers for the lists of candidates, which is now a new provision for a single lot for the whole of Slovenia, but in order to first draw the numbers for the lists running in all the constituencies, then the rest of the numbers would be distributed to the lists that are not running in all the constituencies. Nevertheless, such an arrangement is in its own way that it places in a deprived position list promoters who do not propose a list in all constituencies, because they will always be sentenced to higher numbers, is to say those who remain after the first lot. Another weakness is the regulation of the election of Members of indigenous national communities. We can probably all agree, at least those who do little of this, that the currently in force board system is in practice completely incomprehensible and also poorly functioning, but in Levica we estimate that a single-cycle majority system has some democratic deficit. Take a hypothetical situation where three candidates for the national community would receive approximately the same number of votes, say 30, 29, 28%, and a candidate who received only 1% more votes than the second one. Here, too, we have proposed in the negotiations that this provision should be transformed into a two-way majority system, which, of course, would be significantly clearer. A candidate with more than 50% of the support would then also be one who has a fully legitimate and undisputed mandate to perform this function. These last provisions, if approved at first reading, would also be amended in Levica. This consensus, which I'm talking about all the time, should be something that can not only start but also finish the work that the Constitutional Court has given us. As we say, time is short, time is up by the end of this year. In Levica, once again, we will, of course, support this law at first reading. We also expect that all signatories will stand behind this law, even though we have already heard certain objections. Finally, I would just like to point out that at this point, when fear or fear of early elections is gone, when your concerns have passed, I would once again appeal to all Members and Members who have not signed the law to consider one simple question: is any calculation really necessary at this point? The dilemma in this law is, in the end, only one – whether the law on elections is changed to the National Assembly and thus sufficient for the decision of the Constitutional Court or whether we will be forced to insist on the status quo. At least on this issue, greater interest should prevail over opportunism or interest in the interests of the parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In its judgment at the end of 2018, the Constitutional Court found that Article 4 of the Law on the establishment of constituency units for the election of Members to the National Assembly in violation of the Constitution and ordered the National Assembly to abolish the constitutionality found within two years of the publication of the decision. In the Constitutional Court's view, this is contrary to the Constitution, because it does not meet the criteria laid down in the Electoral Law after almost 30 years of the first democratic elections in Slovenia. The Constitutional Judges found that the difference between the smallest and the largest constituencies in the country by the number of electoral beneficiaries is too great and is increasing. With this, the government and the National Assembly faced a politically extremely difficult task. The implementation of the Constitutional Court decision was either a very difficult change in the electoral borders or the abolition of those and the introduction of a preferential or priority vote. The President of the Republic of Borut Pahor actively participated in the search for a solution, which convened several consultations of political parties, where we were looking together for the best possible solution and a common denominator for the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. In Novi Slovenije, we have advocated a proposed solution in these negotiations from the very beginning, which brings the abolition of the electoral districts and the introduction of a preferred vote. At the beginning of the talks in Nova Slovenija, we were of the same opinion as most constitutional experts that in order to implement the Constitutions, the most appropriate introduction of an absolute priority vote and the introduction of a domestic principle whereby the proposed candidates should come from the constituency in which they run. Unfortunately, we have remained lonely in these proposals, and we have further supported the proposed solution that legitimizes a relative priority vote. We have a similar way of voting in Slovenia in elections to the European Parliament and have been accepted by citizens, voters and voters. We are confident that this would give voters and voters a decisive impact on the choice of Members. We have been in New Slovenia and we are confident today that we must seek wider support in finding a solution, so it seems important that we talk today about solutions that require 60 votes, which represents a constitutional majority. If we decided to seek a solution towards the change of voting venues, we would need 46 votes in order to adopt such a solution. This is the majority of each coalition, which means that the areas can be tailored or tamed in their image. Although the search for the necessary majority for the transformation of the thefts seems to be a easier way to go, changing the boundaries of these people is painful and sensitive. Once the thefts have been redesigned, they will know, to a large extent, who will be elected Members to each party. The first proposal to reshape the borders of the thefts has shown a strong response among Members. Such an extensive transformation could in the future, in addition to now one unconstitutional, open up to a condition of 88 non-constitutions in the future. And what solutions does the proposed Law Amendment bring? It foresees the abolition of electoral thefts and the creation of candidate lists at the level of electoral units. The voter will be able to give the vote of preference to a specific political party candidate or merely vote for the list as a whole. The candidate who will receive the highest priority votes will be elected on the individual list, provided that the number of priority votes exceeds 4,5 % of all votes received by the list. There is also an increase in the representation of the individual sex on this list, where the opposite sex will have to be represented in at least 40%. This percentage was now 35%. A system of attachment is also introduced in the first half of the list, where the sex will have to be represented alternately. The bill also contains a proposal for amendments or a simplification of the way in which members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities are elected to the National Assembly, which will be re-elected after a one-round majority electoral system. In all recent elections, we face relatively low electoral participation in Slovenia. In New Slovenia we are convinced that one of the main reasons for such low electoral participation is also the feeling of people not deciding who will really represent them in the National Assembly. The abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a priority vote would have a decisive impact on the electorate's election from the political party's leadership. With this, I hope, we will also help to restore confidence in politics. Members of New Slovenia will be united in supporting the proposed amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word has magic. Meira Hot, get Jani Möderndorfer ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Constitutional Court therefore found in Decision U-I-32/15 that Article 4 of the Law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly was inconsistent with the Constitution, and ordered the National Assembly to abolish the constitutionality found within two years of the publication of the decision. In the last year, we have actively participated in discussions on the implementation of the relevant constitutional decision, in a way that will follow its spirit to the greatest extent possible, by allowing the principle of fairness, equality or equivalence between constituencies or constituencies to be respected to the fullest extent possible, in order to take account of the will of the electorate. We have thus supported either the transformation of electoral thefts or electoral units in a way that ensures greater equality between the number of voters in individual units, or the total elimination of the thefts. Let me add that, although I was very surprised by the design of the Istrian landscapes, because they were really unrealistic, they were not based on historical, or geographic, or actual environments, and they were, for example, parts of the election districts in the Municipality of Koper simply joined the Municipality of Piran. Of course, the application of such a proposal would in fact constitute exactly the opposite of what should be followed by a constitutional decision. In my opinion, in the end, participation would have been reduced as, for example, one country in Mareziga would not have been logical or fair to vote for a Member in Piran. Similarly, it was proposed for the congregation of Izola and so on, and from this point of view, it is so much more fair to abolish election thefts. As I have already said, I think it is a much more fair system that we are discussing today, especially with the introduction of a preferential voice. So today's bill removes the boundaries within eight constituencies, introduces the relative priority vote that the electorate can give, and this affects the choice that is precisely defined between the eleven candidates and the candidates on the list. As already demonstrated by experience from the European elections, it is realistic to allow for an election on the basis of a list of priority votes for each candidate or candidate. In doing so, the bill raises the proportion of gender representation to at least 40% and enforces the principle of retention in the order of women and men on the candidate list, as was the expectations of the Social Democrats in the negotiating process. However, I regret that the proposal to introduce a horizontal bracket, so that the number of sheets and sheets would be equivalent in the initial talks, has not really been taken into account and has not been included in the proposal for a law. With consistent consideration of the clamps, it is also possible, in fact and not only theoretically, to promote the higher representation of women in political life and in the National Assembly. We have actively participated in the drafting of this bill by the Social Democrats. As I have already mentioned, we have unfortunately failed with all our ideas, so I think that this proposal could be even better. In addition to the already mentioned horizontal attachment, we have defended the Social Democrats and we still advocate the fact that it is necessary to introduce the dominance of the candidates. So to introduce the principle of patriotism, which means that only those who have permanent residence in the constituency where they run can run on the list. Such arrangements would prevent or severely restrict double candidacy and would undoubtedly be fairer. Unfortunately, we have been left alone on this proposal, because other parties have not supported the principle of patriotism, which I really regret. We also believe that it would be appropriate to lay down slightly more precisely the criteria for candidates for elections to the National Assembly within the political parties themselves, as the current regime for parliamentary political parties only provides for secret ballots, otherwise leaving everything to the internal rules of the parties, with some parties to the candidate list setting out very undemocratic and non-transparent. Finally, let me reiterate that the Social Democrats are in fact advocating simple forms of preferential voting, that voters are as understanding as possible, that they are not making it difficult for the electorate to meet the vote and not complicate the determination of the validity of the votes and the determination of the election outcome. For example, there were forms of voting where there was no ranking of candidates in the order of order, there was no registration of candidates as preferred voting methods and so on. Therefore, we believe that the proposal for a law by introducing a relative, optional priority vote is certainly in line with this, and this is confirmed, as has already been said, by comparable elections for the European Parliament, where almost all Members and Members were elected by a preferential vote. Although certain assumptions have not been introduced into the law, which we consider necessary to be introduced, that is to say, consistent compliance with the quotas for full equality and respect for the principle of patriotism, and therefore, in our view, the proposal for a law is not optimal, we believe that this is an appropriate way of implementing the constitutional decision and, of course, I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Get ready for Marco Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Well, we're talking about what one of the Members of Parliament said in his presentations that this is a special day where it turns out that we are members of the policy or we are members of the state. So he wanted to lead us into an introduction, to tell us how important the topic is that it's not a topic where we're dealing with some partial interests, who's going to be elected somewhere. But look at him, the thing is always in the details. You know, small print is the most important thing in all things. In fact, it is a law that decides which one of us will sit in this House if we go to the elections after this law. And the one who bluffs and talks about some kind of unity and justice, and I don't know what else, blah blah blah, it's not true. This is the fact that the law only speaks of how we will change the composition of this Parliament. For as he is today, he is unconstitutional, and as he is today, he is not righteous. Well, why did I stop at a statement by a politician or a statesman? Because it's very hard to listen to someone who's calling himself a doctor of electoral science, in the notes, of course, that no one will think it's really a doctor. And in fact here with some kind of paradigm, he teaches us about which system is actually the most just and good. At the same time, he says that we must not deal with it and should not be itchy to think about trying to decide who is actually elected and who is not, but should respect and see the wishes and will of the electorate, because he is the only one who really has to tell who he wants in the National Assembly because he represents him. Is it true what we've heard? Yeah, details. Let's go see what the problem is. The problem is in particular, I have recently read one article, I must say that not in left or middle – well, the middle doesn't even have its own media – the media, as they would say on the right, but I read it in the magazine, so it's a good part of what I'm about to say, Mr Igor Kršinar, not me. Because I don't usually authorize what I don't say. But I admit that I deeply agree with what he wrote down. However, he wrote down the following: SDS’s rural policy assassination. That's the address. And then in this article with the SDS and their statements, they called a press conference. And he said: “The first SDS leader Janez Janša, who adds that a change in the electoral system, which would be used to select from several candidates of the same party in eight electoral units, would increase the centralisation of the state, as candidates from larger places would have more choice from their country colleagues.” And it's basically some kind of rural assassination, he says. And back to the starting point mentioned by Comrade Grimes that we must not have partisan interests, we must be statesmen. But this same SDS says we're actually going to destroy the countryside. Let's go take a look at the details, see if that's true. Which one of the SDS candidates is running for country? Yeah, mostly those who live in cities. For those who live in the cities know that they will be difficult to choose there through this system. This is one of the reasons why it is very difficult for the mayor in a large city or city of SDS to obtain, or this definition, of how the electoral body is divided in the country. If we go to see, say, a fellow Grimes, we'll see that he actually lives in Kranj. Kranj is divided into one and two constituencies, but he does not run in this section. He's running for three, which is already rural. So we have a problem when we're actually talking about who's actually destroying the countryside. According to this logic, if we were to conclude, the candidates are actually destroying the countryside themselves. So that I don't just do the SDS, other parties do the same. Talking about destroying the countryside like that, that's not true. I also went to see the experts carefully what they said about this area. I choose only right-wing professionals on purpose again, because it doesn't make sense to the left-hand side, because I'm going to get the impression that they're wrong and that they're thinking differently. Or that they had their head washed at Edward Cardell's university and they didn't know anything. That is how we have heard this expression before today. If I look at Dr. Toplak, who's dealing with this and his world view is turned in this direction, which I'm not reading to him, far from that, he's written many times in his writings how he looks at these systems. And he says that, of course, the time has come for these systems to be changed. He can't be like that anymore. He likes it much more and much more closely, I'll say, a system that would suit the fact that there is no more pure proportional system. He says: “The current electoral system meets only the criteria of proportional representation, but does not give the electorate the choice within the party, but the forced preferred vote. If the electorate does not have a choice of party candidates, it is probably very difficult to talk about the decisive impact of voters on the choice of candidate." Where's that logic now? If we look at Aleš Mavre, who is enthusiastic about the majority system, even more so, he would support the system from Great Britain and say the next sentence, which is significant. He says: "Would it not be even more harmful for Slovenia if the LDS in 1992 and 2000 and SMC had a three-quarter parliamentary majority, perhaps even 90% of the seats? I don't know if the heart of our weak democracy would hold it together, whether I'm such a personal fan of the British or French electoral system." What am I trying to say? That even those who know that the majority system, such as the SDS and their provenance, know that in the Slovenian case this thing would simply not last because they would only have valars. We would have an orbanic policy, but this applies to any authority — left, right, curly, yellow, green, whatever. Do we want to have such a system? It is therefore very important which steps we take. What can we do? In our country, we can only take those steps that we agree on with a majority of over 60 votes. These discussions, led by the President of the Republic, had one useful purpose: to reach at least one consensus. And that's why it's no big deal. But the obvious that we are just before the elections and that this is not good now Sorry, we are always ahead of the elections. [[…]] This debate doesn't start this year, last year. This debate has been going on for the past 25 years, when the debate has been on whether we will have a classic proportional system, whether we will have a majority system, whether we will have a combined German system, or whether we will have any other system. And it was always only about partisan interests. So, away from what Ambassador Grimes would say, let's be statesmen. It's a simple bluff and hiding behind everything. Everyone wants to move closer to the step that would allow their political structure to be more selective. To be honest, at the beginning of the discussion with the President of the Republic, I did not believe that we would even be able to discuss this law. I used to believe that we were going to draw new thefts, because that marriage is much easier to change. I am afraid and I am sure that this law will not be adopted today, too, for one simple reason, because everyone is holding a fig in their pocket because of their partisan interests. If it is true that 59 signatures were collected and only one vote was missing to go with 60 signatures in this bill, then it is necessary to determine where it was stuck. Especially today, when I listened to the views presented, I found that there are actually no 59 votes left at all, but I don't know if we're going to get 50. And what's worse is, I'm going to give you a very clear definition. If SMC is responsible for the creation of a new government in the Republic of Slovenia, it is definitely this moment, but correct me and convince me that Desus is responsible that voters will not be given the opportunity of such elections, where they would be significantly easier to reach a vote. I'll explain why. With regard to the theory that citizens will not get their Member in an election place where they have received it now, because they are already leading urban areas, I can say the following. The system we have today is already more than clear, and we can just go look at the factor, so that we do not speak nonsense, who and where were the most elected Members. If we go to see the early elections in the National Assembly in 2018, the first Kranj constituency, Kamnik received the election district of Kamnik two terms and the election district of Kranj three two terms, the constituency of Škofja archa one term. Then we have a second constituency and he's got the Ajdovščina constituency two terms and a constituency postojna two terms. Then the Ljubljana Center constituency, this is the heart of the urban, would say, where everything happens, has received the district of Logatec three mandates. Not the Municipality of Ljubljana, and I don't know what else. Then let's go check on Wich. The mine has two mandates. This is no longer an urban settlement. We are going to watch the fourth election unit Ljubljana Bežigrad, the election district of Ribnica two mandates and the constituency of Domžala one two mandates. Now I don't know if I'm crazy or if I don't understand something. So it's not a problem that someone is going to lose from the outside, because today is actually more or less covered in this story. That's what I'd say. For example, Dr Toplak also says the following, which is very important and very clear, in particular the message to Mr Jurša, who today presented the position. But this is Desus' opinion as a whole that we understand each other. If I understand correctly. So it won't turn out to be Comrade Jurš's only fan now. Although he does support it. I quote: "It is important to say that even if the last elections had different electoral boundaries or some kind of preferential vote, this would not change the relationship between the parties. The parties would still be given the same number of seats they received in the last elections. Only individuals sitting in the National Assembly would most likely be others.” That's what a Maribor lawyer explains. What I said at the beginning. So what are we talking about today? We're talking about whether the same faces will sit in the National Assembly. That's all this is about, my dears, and it's nothing else. And for these very reasons, this law will not be adopted today. Because, you know, sitting on a branch and squishing the branch you're sitting on, that's not what people who bleed under the skin do. I speak purposely in the multitude that some will not be harmed and exposed. But those who are actually against the law have said everything. Let me mention another matter that seems very important to me. The Italian and Hungarian minorities, representatives, this is one of the kind of progress we have here in the Republic of Slovenia. A lot of people who should have it in Europe don't have it. We still have what we have after this board system, which is actually literally a clave. This system, apart from us in Slovenia, has two more islands. I had to write it down because I never use it: Kiribati and Nauru. It is a micronesia minority and works in a way that works. But if you'll excuse me, my dear, do you know who in this way loves their representatives? It's just Eurovision singing. That's exactly how they vote. You know the system twelve points, the points, the height points and all that nonsense. It's a scoring system. However, we have a parallel system in place where the Italian and Hungarian minorities are loved in the local community through a one-way majority system. I don't know why we just don't work it out and go through. Yeah, because it's easier to talk about others than it is about yourself. We would all vote in favour of this proposal immediately if that was all we had on the agenda. But it's the details again. We don't just have this on the agenda, and that's why it's all going to go to the francs. The next debate that will revolve around this theory – I will conclude with Mr Grims, who talked about advanced electoral systems and then sold us some pumpkins, mixed pears and apples here, and wanted to convince us of the theory of economic voice that electoral systems are made so that the vote will affect the economy in the country alone. Yes, it does, of course, but that doesn't mean that you're keeping the electoral system together and that this is what the electoral system did. No, this is what the electoral system does every time, whatever it is that the electorate decides whether to confirm the existing authority or any other power or combination, depending on where we say it is actually going. This flossule, the theory of economic voice, it just sounds so good. And the one who doesn't know that matter a little says, "Uh, that's something smart, I need to study what he just said." He didn't say anything, a total bluff. The fact that the members of the multinational group have, in the so-called economic voice theory, targeted electoral systems, Poland is indeed one of those countries that belong to the multinational group, and it is also true that the cheapest has come through the economic crisis, and only this does not say that wages have not changed for 20 years and that they are relatively low compared to ours. So mixing pears and apples, that's an empty waste. The point is this. This marriage will not be adopted today, we all know that, because we are talking in the hallways. But it won't be accepted because some people are holding a fig in their pocket. Just like you always have all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli has the word to prepare Jean Mahnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u106	Thank you, President, for your word! I won't be long, I'll be very short, because we've practically heard everything we wanted to hear about it. I wouldn't exactly throw a rifle into the corn, just like our renegade did. I would still like and would like to give the opportunity for our Members here to understand how important this is, as we are now talking about this law. Elections are the most democratic expression of the people to form state power. That's what people say. People have to make decisions because it's also the right thing to do. And people have to decide who to put in that position, where everything that rules is decided. Because these people who are elected here, they also set up a government for you. So, indirectly and directly, people are the main actors in all of this. Desus is against the abolition of the constituency, we've heard before. I have nothing against Desus. We're friends. I'm the only one who'll give one comparison now. Many mentioned the problem of large thefts, small thefts. The big edge, but the relatively large edge, what does that mean, I speak for those who look at us in front of the screens, is called the big edges and those that are slightly smaller borders – there is no difference here. 10%, 15% no difference, because you get a thousand votes in proportion, you get 2,000 votes. The problem is a small area where people know each other, where people know each other. It's the kind of neighborhood we mentioned here. Everyone knows each other, and that's normal for a man on the list to be elected. And that's the reason why we can't make this change. This is what's going on here. So this system that we have right now, if you want to put certain people in certain places, you know they're going to be elected. I'll give you an example of my colleague Eva Irgle. She's already the fifth term here, and she'll be elected there for the rest of her life, if she's set up. Because it's no different. There is such a political option and that man will always be elected. Always. People in Ajdovska will never have the opportunity to elect another person. Never. Maybe we could choose one from Séžana. We could choose one from another place. Let's give them a chance. But in this way, with this electoral system that we now have, it's impossible. That's impossible. So we don't give the people a chance to choose who's gonna move them in here and out there at the other end of our benches. But the parties will still decide what it is. This is really relative, because then there can be a problem like that created in our client when everyone thinks that our president has not been elected. It was a few votes, look. And this system that is today has made this matter possible. Because the smaller districts that are less familiar because the mayor was fine, business, successful, he got a percentage more than she, and she got four times as many votes as he did. Four times that. Now a man would say why and how it came about. I think that certain things are very contradictory and that we really need to make order here in this matter. I don't understand why colleagues from SDS, I really don't understand because they always wanted this majority system, because this change would literally be closer to what they always wanted. I think it's really all a matter of calculation here, if you say so. You could say "calculations." I would absolutely like to see Members agree here on this new system, which is now proposed and which is also very good for my terms. We have heard that in 1992 we decided on this client system to give customers the best candidates. But the best candidates for who? For a client. Because the party decides where to put the candidate, who will be elected. Not for people, I guess. There's no meritocracy here. And I think it should be. Then I listened to Mr Grimes. I didn't understand what he was going to say. Since he spoke one here to support this law, it is a completely contradictory matter. Grims is talking about state-of-the-art interest, territory, areas. That way it can't be an interest in territory. The interest of the area as such would be to adopt this law, which is now on the table. To get people to accept the man who did something that did something that created something good for people, for the country, for the electorate. I mean, so much to understand these things. [[Incomprehensible]] He said there was no democratic election. There is no democratic election if you introduce your candidate where you know he'll be elected. It's not a democracy. And that's also true of DeSUS. For me, excuse me, colleagues, my friends, this is not a democracy. It's a democracy for me to give everyone an opportunity to choose a man anywhere. It's not like you're focusing him on the exact point you know he's going to be elected there. It's important that they elect a man. People are wondering why we are doing so much with these elections, because there is no change I don't know for how many years. Every time we touch this chapter, we are not always united. A two-thirds majority is always needed, which is almost impossible in this system as we have it now. It's almost impossible for anything. Why are there important elections? Because the election is about all of us. First thing. They're giving us direction, they're giving us direction. They dictate our pace, our economy, our social, our culture. All of it. All of this depends on our elections. I think we have one real historic opportunity here right now to change this matter. But there's no interest again. It's not a big deal. Priority voice. Why not a priority voice? How's that? Why not? What's the priority voice problem? You know exactly that if he's worth it, he'll get the lead vote. Why not? Then we talked about minorities. What we have here in our country, look, here we'd have our hand cut off in a lot of other countries for a system like that we have. To give minorities the opportunity to represent their interests in our national council. It's a fantastic thing. You know what's gonna happen in Italy now? In Italy it will happen without giving Slovenia the opportunity to join parliament, one in 665 parliamentarians. Now they're down to 400 and that. And they didn't put them on top so they could come. They gave them a 23rd place there, something like that. But 600 and that was the possibility of somehow coming, because it was a different electoral system. Now, because they're going to reduce it by one third, it's almost impossible. It won't happen again. They'd like to. We've had this debate on boards on numerous occasions, so that we can somehow intervene, speak to the Italian government, to accept these minorities into Parliament itself automatically, just as we do. Because we have a fantastic system. We'll give you two a chance. And that's not true that interests, well, are interests, be what they want, but interests are minorities. It's the interests of the minority. Let us be proud that we can have them here, to sit with us, to say their things, problems and what is happening. That's why they're voting for any government, whether it's right or left, they're always there. Which is also the right thing to do. That's right. So don't put a problem on the table about it. I will conclude and I will only give thought to those who have signed, 59 have been signed, as I have seen here, we have hoped for another voice, that this matter will go through, that at least once, because this is a historic opportunity, I repeat, to change this system. Let's think about who you're up against. Look, you guys say you have to vote the way they dictate. We vote in a way when we were in the coalition, we had to vote in favour of the coalition, and we stuck to it. Now the coalition's gone, so let's talk about how it is. You have made a coalition, too, because it is not said that you must all vote now as it is. Let's think about it a little bit. Put democracy on the table. Give democracy a chance to prevail over interest. Do it. Once. And think about it. And this electoral system that's here on the table, this new electoral system, it's giving us a chance to change. He's giving it to her. And I'm sure of it. So let's think about it again, think about how you're going to vote on this law, so you're going to do something smart for citizens and statesmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is Jean-Mahnič. Get Robert Polnar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u108	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Bear, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, as far as the constitutional decision is concerned. Look, we have 14 unfulfilled constitutional decisions. All those who say that the next election could be unconstitutional unless this decision of the Constitutional Court is implemented. The decision of the Constitutional Court concerning private education should be implemented by 2015. Now I'm asking you what we're going to do, considering we're four unconstitutional school years. Four unconstitutional school years. Are we now going to cancel all those who have attended and attended primary school classes, both private and public, because they were unconstitutional and sent back to do all four classes? No, we won't. We won't. Because this is not the only unfulfilled decision of the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues and colleagues, all of you speak, let's put into effect this system that we have in the European elections. I ask you: do you really want the system as it really is? What does this system mean? The European elections have a threshold of around 9 to 10%. Let's enforce it. It is not only a priority vote, but also that the entry threshold for Parliament is 9% and 10%. So, you know, not just take what suits you from one system, but not what suits you. If we take the 9th, 10% threshold, there may be three parties in this House. In the coalition contract we have the decentralisation of Slovenia and only such a system, and it is the same as we now have that allows the decentralisation of Slovenia. You said that the decisive influence of the electorate and the electorate, the citizen and the citizen on who was elected to the National Assembly was needed. Citizens and citizens already have the opportunity to decide who will be elected to the National Assembly. Do you know how? Any citizen may join a political party. We have political freedom. And there he participates and formulates a proposal for a candidate list, which then comes on the electoral day when, let's say, in this case, a state-level election. How is the registration of candidates for Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party going? We are divided into national, regional and local levels. Each municipality shall have its own municipal committee and conferences of local municipal committees shall be convened before the elections to the National Assembly. All members are invited to these conferences. These conferences will then decide who will be the candidate proposed to represent their municipality or their constituency in the upcoming national elections. This means that, already through the fact that citizens can and have the right to participate in the parties, they co-decision on who the parties will even put on the list that will run for the National Assembly. However, I believe or understand that this system, which is now being proposed, is being proposed or advocated primarily by smaller parties. Why? According to the existing system, we have 8 constituency units and 11 election robberies. According to the system that is now proposed, which we will vote on today, there are still 8 constituencies. Now, if we take the example of a party counting, say, 8 or up to 10 Members. Why is such a client advocating such a system? Because it is clear that in each constituency, the first person to come to the National Assembly will come. And in this way, the political party has absolute control and absolute authority over who will come to the National Assembly. It's true that there are derogations. Let's say we take the case of Social Democrats. We have seen for years, I think 2014 in the European elections when Igor Lukšič was first placed and overtaken by Tanja Fajon from second place. Of course, there are also derogations, but the rule is that those who will take the first place, those who will bear the leaves, will already have an automatic advantage because of their recognition and because surely each party will put first the one who has the best chance of being elected. Then there are the parties who have 10, 15, 20, more Members, and then there is the problem with how the electoral campaign will take place. Imagine if we introduced this system. What's gonna happen? There will be more so-called instant parties. Now imagine there's a group of esters, some musicians, some who were on the farm, in Big Brother, some athletes. In short, those who are known, where they will not have a problem with quotas, where they will not have a problem with who to put in a constituency but will simply give up so many places from 11, are said to be more than half of the list and will be distributed throughout Slovenia. Can you imagine a reality show or a show we would have in the National Assembly? Colleagues and colleagues, I guarantee you come inside. We'd fuck around here. We'd say anything we could. Can you imagine then forming some serious programming coalition? More faces, more ones, are said to come to this Parliament just because the name and surname are known. With such a system, ladies and gentlemen, in today's vote, you would have made it possible for several new parties to come to Parliament without tradition, without anything else, only because they would have put celebrities on their lists. That's another thing. Let me know how we're going to run an electoral campaign in this system. Now imagine the Ljubljana Center constituency and 11 candidates from this constituency. Imagine Prešeren's market where the SD, SDS, LMŠ, SMC customer sets up a stand on Saturday morning and imagine 11 candidates of this party, each with their own flyers who rape citizens and citizens: no, she loves me, not him, she loves me. Do you imagine such a campaign? Imagine me, Branko Grims, and Mark Pogačnik, all three on Saturday morning in Kranj, where we would work against each other, talk through each other, attack each other, and convince the electorate. What would people think? It's not Matjaz Han's discretion to campaign in Radeč. You could, Matjaž, three of us could come on Saturday morning. How would such a campaign take place? I'm sure everyone would be cheering for their preferred votes. Am I wrong? That's right. There's a lot of people saying, look, they're fighting in this party, they're fighting in that party. I think that the introduction of such a system would lead to a significantly poorer mood within the parties as well. Since people inside the parties would first swear where they will be on the list, then I even hope to say that more than the political parties themselves, there would be an account between candidates within a single list. Why? Because someone who would run for SMC in the Market would do anything to ensure that Matey Udovč, currently recognised as an SMC member, would not be elected in Kranj. And you'd be having an intra-party fight. Do we want to lower our political culture further? Do we want to make a democratic process even more dirty? Answer it yourself. One more thing. Professional colleagues, personal assistants, if we introduce such a system, then we must follow this example abroad also in a way that each Member has the right to one or two personal assistants to hire them for the entire term of office. Because you need at least one to coordinate your work in the entire constituency, to go to the celebrations, after the events, to have contact in all of Gorenjska, in all of Zasavje, or the entire Novo Mesto constituency, the entire constituency, which is Celje. Let me know how this goes. You can't change the electoral system, leave MPs the way we are, without any support. The English Parliament, I have two good friends who are English Members, they, I think, choose six, seven people, of which they hire two just for constituency, they say only the constituency. And there, in fact, Members have contact with people on a daily basis. Now you imagine having contact with people in the entire electoral unit. One of the Members will be invited to a celebration on the day of the Kranj Congregation of the Gornja electoral unit, someone will not. Someone's going to be invited to Slovenia Gradec, someone's not. So where are the starting points, where are the chances? We'll also depend on the mayors. The mayor in Kranj is SD. The largest municipal celebrations are held in Kranj. Why? Because it's the largest city hall. And if the mayor is a patriot or if the mayor belongs to a client, it is logical that he will invite from the Gorenjska MP SD to the municipal celebration and make an advertisement for him. Except for Rudy Bear, you didn't run for three ladies, you don't know that. But the ones we've already run for office, who know what the situation is on the ground, we see things differently. You can't just theoretically, this electoral system is this, this is this, and the rest is what it is. Go run for office, be elected, run an electoral campaign. You know, nobody knows you. Today, when you are shown here when the minister speaks, you will not be stopped by the people on the road, but you will be praised or mutilated. And we experience it every day. Those who hope to put their name in public with their name and name on it, to put it on their ballot and to show themselves clearly, I think it has a little more weight than bureaucrats who want to introduce such and different systems and hide themselves in offices. Maybe they're anonymously commenting on 24 hours of forums, RTV and beyond, and they want to introduce some systems in which they'll never run. Tell me how we can be Members of Parliament, and let's leave the electoral campaign, because we know that the problem is going to be to organize our work on the ground. If you have a constituency of three, four, five, six, seven congregations, if you have seven, then they're smaller, you can still arrange work. Let me know how the entire electoral unit's gonna get organized. That's impossible. Unless everyone can hire, say, two or three personal assistants to make sure that we too are constantly present in the field. The position of Members and Members within the Assembly of the State. Those who sit in the chair where colleague Simonovic sits, those who run the committees are logically more recognizable. Those who are more recognizable are logically more likely to be elected. Speaking of partisan interests. Jani Möderndorfer spoke about partisan interests. My colleague Jani Möderndorfer also has partisan interests. Why? Why is it that, say, colleague Möderndorfer likes the system we're talking about today? His constituency – who was elected in his constituency? Monica Gregorčič. Because simply the constituency for SMC is better. But if we put this system in place now, Jani Möderndorfer would be elected. Why? Because he is one of the most recognizable members of the SMC. Speaking of partisan interests, he's right. And that's what this is all about. Most of us are running for mayor. Earlier it was said, Mr. Janez Janša. Mr. Janez Janša is running for office. He was born in Grosuplje. He lived in Grosuplje. 40. If he lives in Velenj now, he's still running home. Where you were born, where you grew up, that's where your home is. Daniel Krivec is running home, Eva Irgl is running home, colleague Pogačnik is running for Škofja Loka, but because Branko Grims is running for office in the municipality of Kranj and Kranj is part of Kranj 3, which does not hold Grims running in the other district. Anja Bah Žibert's colleague can't run home because where she's at home she's running for Alenka Jeraj, who's also there. That's why Anja is running in Dolenjska. But all the bottom committees support her, she has contact with the electorate there. My friend Grimes is running home, Carmen Furman's at home, Tomaž Lisec at home, me at home, Boyan at home. Dr. Anže Logar has an electoral district, which is part of the Ljubljana Municipality. He is a citizen of the municipality of Ljubljana and candidates at home. Mr. Jansha's home. Then Zvonko Černač home, Jelka Godec where he is at home, Marijan Pojbič where he is at home, Breznik is running home, Tanko is also at home. In short, they run where people are at home. I may not know how many times it says in the constitution that Members and Members of the whole of Slovenia are, but, look, my heart is in the valley of Poland. I will always defend the interests of those who have chosen me. These people are at home in the municipalities of Gorenje Vas, Poljana, Žiri and Žiri. I am a member of the Poljanska and Sevska Valley. Although I am a representative of the whole country, and when I am at the Ministry of Infrastructure for the Environment, I always try to work for the benefit of the projects from these three municipalities. And it's the right thing to do, and it's normal. If we put this in place, tell me how someone for the entire electoral unit is going to handle things. The only normal and only way to decentralize is to maintain the system of thefts. I agree, however, that we should think about what we can do to ensure that each district has its own Member. Let's say my neighborhood is Bishop Locke. I'm the only one now. After Mr. Tonin is gone as Minister, Michael Prevc will be here. So we'll be two. Now I was the only one in two terms. For example, in the 2011-2014 term, we had three Members or almost four. We had Bojan Starman from the National List, Michael Prevac from the Slovenian People's Party, we had Irena Tavčar from SD, and after the election week we had the fourth, we had Anton, since he was already a New Slovenia Member, that is, a New Slovenia candidate. Anton Kokalj, yes, thank you, Mr. Han. So Anton Kokalj. Four Members. And after the voicemails came from abroad, he got ahead of Matthew Tonin. Otherwise, one district would have four Members. We agree that's too much. But let's see how we can then change the system so that each district has at least one of the Members. When we talk about these partisan interests, it is logical that they exist, and it is logical that such a system is advocated by those who are most well-known, because those have automatic advantage over all. The other thing is, if we can admit something to ourselves, I think we're local patriots. I think we're local patriots. And despite the fact that Franz Jurša is known, he will be difficult to compete with someone from the Murska Sobota. Why? Because the human base is different and bigger. And he was the mayor of the Ljutomer municipality, and people know him there. But if you give anyone else out of the City Saturday, what's it gonna be? Yes, of course there'll be a higher level of voice. And what are you going to do? Why are we talking about centralization? Because Ljutomer will no longer have a Member. You know, we can call Ivan Hršku, see what you're doing here with 350 votes. But then what are we going to do? A farmer who is not a centre that is not an urban centre will no longer have a Member. Look, that's right. Now that we're saying it's not fair that someone who's got so many votes isn't an MP, and someone who's got fewer is. What's going to change this system? Colleagues and colleagues, let us take three Members to the electoral unit of the Slovenian Democratic Party, say Gorenjska. Three will be elected. Someone gets 4,000 votes, another gets 3,000 800, the third gets 3,000 600. The fourth, which will no longer be elected, has 3,000 400. Then we look at a party with five MPs who will still be in Parliament, or a party with four, where the first in the constituency, for example, will receive a thousand votes. So someone who has a thousand votes is going to be sitting in Parliament, and those who have received 3,000 400 say more than three times more, and still will not be sitting in Parliament. So don't say it's a fairer system. The only thing we should be following besides the fact that voters and voters have a greater influence should be following – what? To introduce an electoral system that makes it easier to form a government. This, however, can only be done in a way that raises the threshold and has fewer customers in Parliament. You're not going to confirm that. Why not? Because of partisan interests. Due to partisan interests [[…]] Another matter or thing I would like to say is that if we still want to have as many scattered national assemblies, then let us deal with changes within this system. There's no need to detect some warm water. Those who speak of a European model should then also talk about the percentages that we have and that are for us to elect European Members, otherwise let us do our utmost to keep Slovenia as far as it is dispersed. And the current system allows us to be MPs in Parliament from the countryside. That is why I will vote against the proposal to end the electoral borders and to introduce the system as proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much. He has the word Robert Polnar, to prepare Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you for your input, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen! The electoral system must be such as to enable all political parties to be represented in Parliament, in proportion to their electoral results, in proportion to the proportion of votes they received in the elections, compared to all votes cast. So much for the principle level. The requirement that a proportional electoral system allow the establishment of a legitimate parliament that best reflects the structure of the whole society is merely a theoretical concept that cannot be fully realized in reality. The main thing is that the derogations are as low as possible. When changing the proportional electoral system as it is in Slovenia, at least three variables should be highlighted: whether the voter's vote affects the party's entry threshold, or whether the voter's vote affects how many seats the party will win, and in particular whether the voter's vote affects which party's candidate for parliament will be elected. The answers to all three questions are unequivocally positive and the spears break around the intensity of the voter's influence on which candidate will be elected. The proposed changes to the electoral model are therefore aimed at strengthening the personalisation and strengthening the decisive impact of voters on the allocation of sent mandates. The claim that the electoral system, as set out in the current law on elections to the National Assembly, is inconsistent with the Constitution, because it is not intended to ensure the decisive role of voters in electing candidates for Members, is based on the State Council's initiative to assess constitutionality. The Constitutional Court has decided to ensure that the contested arrangements for the allocation of parliamentary mandates ensure that voters have a decisive impact on the allocation of seats to candidates because voters decide on who will be elected, not on the candidate list. The choice of a specific electoral system, including a way of ensuring greater influence for an individual electorate, falls within the discretion of the legislator, says the National Assembly. And what is most important to our debate today is that the Constitutional Court has ruled that Article 4 of the Law on the Establishment of Election Units for the National Assembly, which is determined by the areas of the constituencies, is inconsistent with Article 20, paragraph 3, paragraph 4, and paragraph 5 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. These articles, or these paragraphs, speak of geographical roundness, the number of municipalities within each district, and about the same number of people in each district. The Constitutional Court has not annulled the electoral regime, but has only found its non-conformity with the Constitution. This is said, given that the Constitutional Court has not repealed the electoral regime, there is no need to abolish it. In order to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, two alternatives have been developed: reshaping or abolishing electoral thefts at the same time as introducing a priority vote, either absolute or relative. The applicants opted for this second option. This is for the abolition of electoral thefts and they have chosen a relative priority vote. The leading idea of abolishing electoral thefts is manifested in a noticeably grotesque form. According to the proposal, the electorate will act in the same way as in the current system, only with the difference that he will have 11 candidates in the constituency and not just one candidate in the district in front of him, as is now the case. However, it will still be a choice between different parties as in the current system, only that this choice will be broader and more comprehensive. In practice, each electorate will no longer be faced with an electoral ballot as it has been used to date, but with an election sheet of A2 format, probably dimensions of 60 x 40 centimeters, where 150 to 200 candidates and candidates will be recorded. However, there is also a high probability that more than 200 candidates and candidates on one electoral board will be in the electoral unit. Voting on the basis of such a difficult transparent crowd of candidates is, in any case, questionable in terms of the decisive impact of voters on the election of Members. If I stay in the field, for example, in the fifth constituency from which I come alone. The proposed system should have a great advantage, for example, that the voter from Šentjur will have the opportunity to vote for someone who will run in the district, the administrative district after the new, Dravograd Radlje, and also in the opposite direction. It should also be a terrible advantage for someone who is from Celje to have the opportunity to vote for someone from Slovenj Gradac who does not have it today, or from Raven in Koroška, as my colleague Prednik rightly warned me. And, of course, the same is true of the opposite direction. Is this, ladies and gentlemen, an advantage for the electorate or the electorate? It's a question of imagination, it's not a question of reality. However, it is undeniable that there is a legitimate fear that in the event of the implementation of the proposed system, the representation would focus on people known in the wider area, at least at the level of the electoral unit, and the electoral freedom of candidates from smaller towns and villages would be greatly reduced. And this, of course, is also the goal of the applicants: as few people as possible from smaller districts. We cannot even talk about at least the approximately equal regional representation of the electoral body in the National Assembly on the basis of such a proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally believe that the dictates of the proposed amendments and the amendment of the law are based on an erroneous assumption. This erroneous assumption is that all mistakes of parliamentaryism are the responsibility of electoral architecture. Indeed, the electoral model affects the results of the elections and the conduct of their findings, the customs and practices that bind them. But there's something we need to know. Performers of such practices and practices are always political protagonists, not an electoral system. Unfortunately, people who do not understand and are not able to act as politicians are entering politics today because they do not have any political experience. We should therefore professionalise politics, because it is wrong to think that politics should be dealt with by all those who have only a powerful and boundless ambition and nothing else. Politics requires competences that are specific. The capacity for political action, coordination and skills to achieve the objectives is due to the curves of experience. They cannot be achieved with any election model. I'll vote against it personally. Of course, denial in itself does not achieve anything. Today's proposal for amendments to electoral legislation does not prevail because the required majority would agree with it, but because we are convinced that there is no other option. The unconformity of the regime of electoral thefts with the Constitution can be remedied by a change in the boundaries of electoral thefts. Differences in the number of inhabitants living in an individual constituency should be reduced. Here is the key to allowing for differences in the number of inhabitants between the districts. And this is what will be the subject of future decision-making. It's not gonna be easy. It's not a job anyone would applaud, either, but someone's gonna have to do it. This is an alternative, which, by its meaning and content, is totally equivalent to what we are going to decide today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word is Tomaž Lisec. Get Robert Pavšič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the government, my colleague, my colleagues! Let me start where the predecessor almost finished. Political experience. It won't look like praise by what I've been doing or what I've been doing. In addition to being a student of political science, which I have dealt with in electoral systems and, above all, with local self-government, I have had concrete experience over the last 15 years. Once again, I hope this doesn't sound like any kind of praise. In 2004, I actively participated at the local and national level in the national elections. In 2008, I ran the candidate's electoral headquarters. In 2011, I was the party's programming secretary. So one of the ones who got the most out of what we were going to do in pre-election time, and at the same time I was a candidate. In 2013 the candidate. In 2018, the candidate. That's why I'm going to start here, where Mr. Pollnar ended up early. I also know political experience in theory, but above all in the practice of electoral law and procedure concerning the national assembly and everything that touches on it. Also this Law on Elections to the National Assembly. To avoid thinking, the existing law or system of elections to the National Assembly is not ideal. Even if we let go of what we voted once in the referendum or what we have in the constitution, we can see that it is not ideal. And each of us would probably have his own proposal, but a little bit later. However, I am convinced, both from my theoretical knowledge and from the practice of the last 15 years, that this bill is harmful to parliamentary democracy, harmful to centralisation. As in many areas, centralisation has been taking place in recent years. For starters. Who do they appoint as a candidate? I believe that in some small customers they put people who were mayors before or who were known. I sometimes tell my colleagues in jest to list five known people from the SNS party and from the SAB. They know two from the SNS, because one of Posavje's members, the SAB knows mainly a lady who is not in the National Assembly, who has not been elected. And that's where the story ends. Of course, you'll probably be first on the list if such a law was passed. But in such small parties, the question is, who should come forward more influential than the party's president, so that she can outrun it if she already gets a surprisingly few votes – 400. Then who can beat her? And Mrs Bratušek is from Kranj, and it will be difficult for someone from her constituency to defeat a smaller district. In larger parties, however, there are some candidates who have already done more, who have experience not only from their constituency but also recognize us more widely. But what's gonna happen? Sooner or later, if not in the regular elections of 2022, the next regular or extraordinary elections will begin with what is the intention of this law. Not the best candidates will be chosen, not the first to be on the lists, but those who will be first on the lists and will be representatives of the largest places, because the parties will find that they are paid to be given candidates from the largest places within the constituencies. Like my constituency or new town. Any of the top candidates from Kostanjevice, Krka, can be the mayor with 100 per cent support without candidates three times already, everyone loves him, and on the other hand we have a solid candidate or candidate from New City. Who will be elected? Will the people of Kostanjavice vote theirs and the people of New City, even though the candidate may be slightly worse, in their opinion, elect a candidate from Costanjevice? No way. But the candidate from Kostanjevice will have to pay off his entire municipality, get 100% even though there are 20 other parties, while the candidate from the bloc's settlement in Nové Mesto will go to his colleagues on the blocks for two weekends and get 500 votes with the smaller customers. In short, with this law, if not for the next one, and at least for the next one, there is centralisation. And why is there still centralization? Because the voters from Kostanjevice will find out why to go to the elections at all if no candidate from Kostanjevice has no chance against the candidate, either from Krk or from New City or from the surrounding area. People won't even run, and they won't go to the polls because there won't be any candidates from there. In short, this law is going in the direction of centralisation. The next thing that's been kind of a dilemma today is when customers have more influence. Now, probably, let's leave the new party alone with all due respect, but for us who have some party history, it's probably running first. If it is fortunate that one congregation is one constituency, it is about easier, within SDS, SD, or Desusa, members of the party, together with sympathizers, and few public leaders, who could get the most. If there are seven or eight municipalities in one constituency, the presidents of seven or eight municipalities, SDS parties, Desus and Nova Slovenija must agree on each other on the basis of the influence given to them by their members or potential voters, who is the best candidate. And if one comes through the sieve, then the customer who says yes, John Novak is a good candidate because of this, another, political history, he can do it, he can do it, he's successful in the economy, he's a good candidate. So there's already a candidate twice over the will of potential voters. And for the third time, it's over a dozen voters on election day, when people within the constituency decide, John Novak from party X likes me, but I don't like client X. And the voter has two dilemmas. On election day, the electorate has at least two dilemmas: either to elect or to give a voice to John Novak from party X or to Franc from party Y because he may prefer the client. A number of voters also believe that the voters are about 25 to 30%, and the last day is the decision. It is said that 25-30% of voters decide on the last day whether they prefer a candidate from a party they don't like best or whether they prefer to elect a party, even though he doesn't like the candidate most. What will the parties do after the new bill? They will put first the most recognizable, if he is of the city’s congregation. Example. Two candidates from the same constituency on the SDS list. Who do you think will be first? Will the candidate from Kranj be first on the list or candidate from a small congregation? The party will automatically know that in Kranj, for example, the candidate is as many as 3,000, but the candidate, who is from the municipality with 800 or a thousand 500 inhabitants, will have to do so much earlier to convince people that he will be able to come through the next candidate plus this 4.5% higher threshold. And he's gonna make it? He's not gonna make it. Why? Because the voters will say that the candidate from Kranj is our candidate. He's nice to them from the neighboring municipalities or from the neighbouring district, but, no, he's not our candidate, which we'll then knock on the polls on Mondays, send a text, e-mail, czech, honourable Member, when you have your official hours. Voters from Sevnica will never go to the official hour to the MP in Krška. Never. Because they're going to think of him as Posavic, and we're doing great together, but they're going to say he's not ours. Only if the client's not ours. But it is crucial that local patriotism also plays an important role in the elections of the National Assembly. The only thing I would agree with in this law is that the candidates are allowed to establish certain conditions that the candidate must not give permanent residence one month before the elections and is immediately a domestic candidate, but that there must be either a historical or any action to be recognized by people there. Whether he ever lived there or now he lives there. Not that John, from the congregation of Ig, with whom he had nothing before, never went to the congregation or to an election place, but that the client would then appoint him there. We do not have any problems with this in the SDS, which was previously very apparent by colleague Jan Mahnic. And why don't we have any problems? Because we are all elected Members here, not a new face, old faces inside the party. I know all SDS candidates, including those who are first among us, for at least four or five years. Because either the presidents of local committees or locally known, they are at least partially known by the whole of Slovenia. That is why we do not have as many problems as a number of new parties looking for candidates. On 1 June, elections shall be convened for 1 November and then they shall seek candidates. Oh, John from all over Slovenia is good, just to be a candidate. And if he had a good resume, or if he didn't have it, they had no idea what he was doing before, but one John said, you, he was a good candidate, he'd get a lot. And then the stories happen, as unfortunately happens, and here, once again, Mr. Polnar is right. Political experience should be before entering the National Assembly. And not just with the National Assembly functioning, so there's no mistake that no one will say, you've been a professional associate for six years, you have to be an automatic candidate. We don't have that. In the history of the SDS, I am the second Member coming from the expert groups. My friend Branko Grimes, I think, my little thing is who we are. But it's important that he has political experience locally. Either as a successful economist, who knows little about how the local community works, or as a former mayor, the mayor, who, unfortunately, we have thrown out of the National Assembly and who are underrepresented in the Chamber, is lower than the other part of Parliamentarianism. But I'll talk about it some other time. I agree that the candidates would be from where they are at home. Previously it was said that “the Members are representatives of the whole people”. We have to be. Although I sometimes disagree with someone from the Left, I do not agree with him because, I don't know, he's from the wrong place at home, but he has his own valuable, ideological, moral, legal or whatever system he wants to sell here to voters and voters and represent their interests. For believe that no one, I hope, from the congregation of Sevnica was wrong when he wanted to vote for Levica and voted for me. So people sent me to represent not only our constituency, but also the values I represent. With me the cards are clear, people know me in my constituency for at least 15 years, because I did not come three months before the elections as someone on the poster and they said "who is this young man?" This may have happened in 2010, when I was running for mayor, and I got, with all due respect, much more than a dozen here, even percentageally, not just by the number of votes. And how we Members will work if, for the first time, we do not know our local affairs and then try to solve them. That is why I even argue that Members should be, if they are not former mayors or mayors, at least once or during the current term of office, municipal councilors. Because then we get from the mayor "evo MP, solve the matter". You don't know what's going on before, and then you figure it out. At the legislative level, does any regulation change, or does the director of health care come home, saying, “Tomáž, please, do you know what the minister is doing? It shuts down satellite emergency centres and, like, help.« I always say – I'm Sevnican first, then I'm Posavic and then I'm Slovenian. Even though I represent the whole of Slovenia. Because it would be really strange, for example, that Marko Bandelli would first represent the interests of Slovenia, which would be contrary to the interests of his place, municipality or electoral unit. People would throw it away. Fortunately, we don't have a chance to call it off yet, but we'd probably say, "Mark, you're a little bit of what you're doing against your congregation, you're doing for a client. We will never vote again, we want you to represent us, because we have chosen you because John from Upper Radgona did not elect you." It's simple. But according to the new proposal, this will be very difficult to reach. Two more questions. Voting list. Mr. Polnar said it well. There were 25 parties and lists at the 2018 elections. If they were all full, times eleven — how many is that? If they were all half full, but at least these serious customers could easily fill it up, we're close to 200 candidates on a sheet. And then you have John Novak on that list and John Novak on the second list. You might have two John Novaks inside one list. Not only do older ones, with all due respect, have a problem or those who see a little less. People would be confused when they saw that sheet in front of them, and they would say, "Yes, what have you done to us now?" Between 200 candidates, I'm going to look for 25 clients first, yeah, this one's mine, and now I'm going to surround this candidate. Come on, be serious! For practical reasons, it doesn't work together. However, I will conclude with what is the point of this proposal for a law – a decision of the Constitutional Court. This law is one of the options of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has not written anywhere “the only solution is the abolition of election thefts”. In my opinion, at least two solutions are in addition to the abolition of the election thefts. One is what is partly at the proposal of the Minister in some stages of the talks – the change in election thefts. Although I say here that Mr Medved has been well-intentioned in drawing 88 electoral thefts, but he has been looking too much at the 100 per cent decision of the Constitutional Court, which has not said the middle is 18 000 and a few voters and you can go 10 per cent left, right. I doubt if, for example, the Constitutional Court would say: “Look, if you go 20% in plus and minus in the size of the election circuits, now you have completely missed.” Because what do we have now? Seven thousand is at least, and thirty-six thousand is the largest. It's not just 20%, we have a 300% difference now. Here I agree that very little needs to be done also for immigration to certain municipalities, and for evictions from smaller municipalities, and so on, a more rationally equal picture. But I personally argue that Mr Bear himself, if we call him 20% up or down, would make electoral circuits over the weekend, which may not, in one case, in the individual constituency, make one municipality one constituency, which we do not already have. At least in the larger congregations, one local community is divided a little bit here, one little bit there. It's just the way it is in practice. And the other thing that, at least in my theoretical knowledge of the FDV, may be up to date, and it also has a lot of versions: a combined system. Not just German. There are also a number of combined systems in Europe that I think that if we think about a system like this to fulfill what some of you are advocating in this law, this is a greater role for voters and voters in the exercise of electoral rights. But the worst of all these solutions, once again, as it is said, the current and the system is not good, but the proposal of the law is, I hope I explained it to you in 20 minutes, much worse than it is existing. And that's why I won't support him. However, I look forward to it, regardless of who the Minister is going to find a solution to it and to find a solution by the end of 2020 that will not only have 46 votes of such or other coalitions, but will have wider support from the National Assembly, where we will also partly take into account what some of you are afraid of: local patriotism and partial interests. For if we are not local patriots and have no partial interests, then it is a shame that we sit here and vote on matters that concern us and every citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Minister Rudi Medved has the floor [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] The replica's earlier. Mr. Marko Bandelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you, Chairman. I need to replicate two points when I heard my colleague Lisco. He didn't say anything else than what I wanted to say earlier. He just turned to his side. Practically, if you see that your candidate or candidate in your area hasn't done the work you've chosen to do, because you thought he was good, you won't be able to replace him otherwise if we don't change this system. Because you, as a client, give an example to you, but are also valid for others, you will put the same candidate back there and he will have no other option than to vote only for him because of the political option. And that's totally absurd. If the candidate has not been competent and has not done the job in that place, let us give him the opportunity to vote for another number. And the one about 200 names on the edge. After all, 200 names are held by each congregation when there is a municipal election. If there's 10, 12 sheets and there's 13, 14 or 15 saints in there, you have to fill out the list, so if all the saints are in there by chance, it's 150, it's 200 names. What does that change? That doesn't change anything completely. So, don't hold that argument. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u115	Please, one at a time!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u116	I'm just warning you because I've seen inconsistencies in speech, in what you're thinking. Where is the better option, and now I conclude, the President, where is a better opportunity than to give citizens the opportunity to choose the candidates themselves, who will present them here in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is given by the representative of the Government of Rudi Medved, Minister of Public Administration, who conducts ongoing business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Much of the energy of all political parties has been invested in the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision this past year. And also the professions and also the president of the state. And I, as an irreparable optimist, thought at some point last fall that we had reached the point where we could also implement the Constitutional Court's decision. The Ministry of Public Administration has thus taken a relatively late part in this process in the public eye, not because it would have wanted to, but because, as guardian of the electoral law, it was relatively late to be invited into this coordination round for the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. At some point, someone found out that the ministry was supposed to cooperate. But together with the team at the Ministry itself and with some experts, both constitutional lawyers, lawyers and geographical experts, we began to prepare solutions practically the day after the Constitutional Court published this decision. So last spring, we came to this point, whether we call it negotiation or whatever we call it, even with some of the solutions that were made. So we did not just come here to listen, but we also brought solutions to the table, and at that time we prepared three marriage proposals. It is therefore a little sad that at the beginning of this debate I heard how the Ministry of Public Administration or the Minister did not engage in this at all in the way that I was losing energy or, as has been said in some way, that I had put too little energy into it, was said. And I hear this from the representatives of the party who are trying to involve you, because it's fair to say right at the beginning that they're pushing for changes in the boundaries of the election thefts, which is fine, the two parties have also said this fairly, clearly, so that things were relatively straight at the beginning of the table, who's looking for one, who's looking for another solution. At the same time as we have prepared amendments to the electoral law, we have also prepared changes in the borders of electoral thefts, and this party, which now tells me, in fact, did not want to participate at all, no matter what our calls, what is wrong with our proposals on changes in the borders of electoral thefts, what we could fix. We didn't get any kind of substantive response from them. The only thing we ever got was that it wasn't right. It's hard to follow any position if it's just that it's not right. But it doesn't matter now. At the same time as the amendments to the electoral law, we have been preparing changes to the electoral borders, because we have all come to realize from the very beginning that neither one nor any other proposal has sufficient support and that compromise will have to be reached in the end. However, I have always advocated changes to the electoral law in the direction of a relative preferential vote, but I have publicly advocated this, and I have not yet been convinced by the arguments against it. I advocate the introduction of a relative preferential vote and the abolition of electoral thefts, just as I did the first day and I will be in the future. This, of course, did not mean that the Ministry of Public Administration would not be actively involved in changing the boundaries of electoral thefts. We brought the law to the table, knowing that I said that at the time and, of course, it also confirmed that, with these changes in the borders of the elections, we will not run into applause among Members. And we didn't. And we didn't. You know, that was about as close as when Santa's presents opened. Everyone looked at their neighborhood first. This neighborhood was changed, normal. If we have implemented the Constitutional Court's decision that the size of the electoral districts should be at least approximately, at least about the same size, given the number of voters, if we wanted to follow it, we could not change the electoral borders without changing them. And since these circuits were changed, no one liked them. But we followed some standard, which also seemed to make sense to the legal profession, which is that these deviations would be around 10% plus, minus, and with some extremes maybe, where otherwise they can't be, up to 15%. It came to the table what came. Nobody likes it and then we did a new version on plus, minus 20 with derogations there to 40 or 50%, and once again advocates of changing the boundaries of election thefts didn't like it very much. I would also like to point out that, when we agreed to relax these limits at more than 10 or 15 % when we agreed to do so, we have also made it very clear that we are confident that such borders will not be in line with the Constitutional Court's decision. The term is, of course, not a legal concept, but it can be explained in Slovenian. If we're talking about roughly the same sized electoral boundaries, then we can compare this to, for example, a stick that measures 98 centimeters, and we say that this stick measures about one meter. But if this rod is 52 centimeters, we're not saying that it measures about one meter. And we say it measures about half a meter. That's how we can imagine it. The core of the problem was, then somehow, even the impression was that the Minister of Public Administration was now in a conflict with the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is, of course, ridiculous. What if anyone were in a dispute, we had read the Constitutional Court's decision differently than the motioners. The changed electoral boundaries of the judges and now the ratio of 1:3 would still be constitutionally sustainable, and 1:3.1 probably no longer, and 1:2.9. So here I think if we explain the concept roughly again, something doesn't go together. Therefore, we claim that the Constitutional Court is not at some point saying 1: 3 is still fine, from here on out, change and adjust. That's our attitude from the start. We have not changed it, but we have done simulations of the limits of the electoral thefts over those limits that we have considered to be constitutionally sustainable. However, we have also made it clear that the law, which has all the elements, does not implement the Constitutional Court's decision that we will not write such a law. And that was the whole story about these alleged or any kind of conflict. Of course, this does not bear any criticism that we have not been involved in changing the boundaries of election thefts, because either the minister or his team judges that it would be better to change the electoral law and introduce a relative preferential vote. But we've been so professional all along. I just wanted to say this as an explanation that we have been involved in this process, and I think it is correct. Finally, we also had such responses from political parties and also from the President of the country who led the process. We are just at a time when, at some other time, it could probably be a first-class political event, because we are talking about changes in the electoral system, but at this point in time, this is obviously more of a side event. At the time of the end of this year, at the end of 2020, of course this topic will not be of any use in any way, since the Constitutional Court decision will simply have to be implemented. However, we have, or for the time being, had the opportunity to give the electorate an extraordinary, extremely powerful tool to decide who will sit in the National Assembly. A responsible and confident policy would put such a tool in the hands of voters. Perhaps the more calculating one that can be calculated in advance for each district today, by who and how it will be elected in future elections, if such a system persists, and these tools are not yet available to voters and voters. It'll show time. Of course, I would be very interested in what he would be like, but I am not predicting any referendum on this, but what would actually be the outcome of the referendum. I may be moving, I don't know if I'm moving around the wrong places, but I'm also from the urban-rural district, and I might also be an opportunist, and I might say, because actually it doesn't matter so much to me, I was elected in my constituency, and I won in my constituency and I'm going to go to maybe in the same system and with the same constituencies again. However, I see in the amendments to the electoral law such added value that I do not count and am not a calculator as far as this is concerned. Of course, I wish to all of us, because I will join this high assembly myself soon, so that we can also implement this wisdom and the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word has Gregor Perič to prepare Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you, Vice President. Nice greetings to all, colleagues, colleagues, the minister with colleagues! First of all, whether we support this law today or not, all those who have made a tremendous effort in this process of seeking some agreement, some thanks, some congratulations, some responsible attitude deserve. But something completely different is whether we agree with these content, how much we agree, what our arguments for non-conclusion are. First of all, I would like to point out that in our SMC, before the elections, we have already put in an indication where we have committed ourselves to looking for solutions to solve this problem in order to make a greater role or weight for the electorate, i.e. those who have a choice of one or another. And it seemed to us through different circles, opinions, or reflections, when we had our heads crossed at different levels, this solution, with a relative preferential voice, of the one best suited to the needs or the easiest way to come up with a solution or implementation of what the Constitutional Court has told us that we need to regulate. The fact is that there is more than one way to implement this decision of the Constitutional Court. A relative preferential voice is one of these options. We also have the opportunity to adapt the electoral borders to the existing work. I come from Izola. Whoever knows that area knows that Piran is its constituency, Izola has its own constituency, Koper has two constituencies, namely Koper Center and Koper Rural. In practice, it looks like one Member was elected in Piran, in Isola 2 Members, alongside me colleague Simonovic and in Koper 1 Member. Compared by the weight of these electoral thefts, i.e. by the number of inhabitants, I think there are about 14,000 in Piran, about 12 or 13 thousand in Isola, and in Koper there are more. So here we see some imbalances, which are due to the fact that from the moment this system was put in place to this day, so the differences are about 26 years old, the number of people in the individual constituencies has changed, some are more, some are fewer. Today, we have heard many times that some are small, some very large, and here is the weight of an individual electorate or electorate, or that his voice has a different weight. Certain electorates have a greater weight, and certain voters have a smaller weight, and have a smaller political influence in determining a member or a member of the National Assembly. And that's certainly something to be done. If we remember when we were looking for a broader consensus, there were more solutions on the table. Personally, I am not entirely sure that all those who vote for this solution today are really behind it. As the system has in the past been set from the point of view of customer activity, it is much more predictable than if only a relative preferred voice were introduced. Here, as a party, as it is, there is much less room for predicting what composition the Members will receive. So that comes from, I understand, some potential risk as well, and on the other hand, voters have, as we say, a greater role, a greater influence. When I also thought about the consequences of introducing a relative preferential voice, we have repeatedly pointed out that people who are media or otherwise more exposed to public knowledge are more likely to be met or seen on television, on radio, or anywhere else on stage may be more likely or more likely to be chosen from this title. And I'm not quite sure that's true, because I can find cases that either confirm it or deny it. I don't want to expose anyone, but let's say one of the parties also played this card not long ago, but they weren't elected in their kind or as the most prominent candidates. So voters vote on different criteria, whether they like it or not, or whether they meet some needs at some point in time, whether they like their occupation or the list of politicians offered. Usually for news or someone who has profiled himself as either a musician or an athlete, to immediately skip someone who is perceived as a potentially very successful policy, I think it does not exist. So here is the risk that someone who is so instagramically interesting, who can collect likenesses, even automatically occupy a chair in the National Assembly, in my opinion, it is so very easy not to run it anyway. The way people look at us is still a little different. I would also like to say that if we don't adopt this law, for example, for my constituency, Izola will look like a unit that will remain as it is, but one part of the village of Kopra will join her. One part of the village of Koper will go to Izola, the other part will go to Piran. It is quite practical in terms of how I know people from this area, I cannot imagine how they will accept this, because this local patriotic identity is extremely strong and springs from the past. Practically a new century ahead. Last but not least, there are at least two congregations — Izola and Piran — in some war if I am joking. It will be interesting, therefore, if we do not find another solution, to see from a sociological or political point of view whether this solution will result in electoral participation in these areas, in these merged areas, so to speak, greater or smaller. I would almost hope to say that people in that area will find it more difficult to motivate because they will see that they belong politically to someone else they never belonged to. The third dilemma that even opens up is this local patriotism again. We are as representatives of the entire nation, that is, the whole of Slovenia, but it is true that I, who come from Izola, find it difficult to understand or have much less information about what is happening in Prekmurje and vice versa. The MP who comes from Prekmurje understands the problem on Slovenian Primorje or Slovenian Istria much more difficult. So here I believe it will not be easy or difficult to find a solution that will meet all of these challenges that we have put forward today. But as with all things, there will be some compromise to be found. It seems to me that this solution is a relatively good compromise, for which we have chosen 59 votes, I hope that they have been honest, we will also see how the vote will turn out today. Otherwise, we will have to find another solution. One way or another, we won't be able to avoid it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert has the word to prepare Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u122	Actually, I don't have much time, but, look, there's only one. The minister said well that they were also trying to prepare new constituencies. But he's neglected something essential. It is not just a number; it is also a legal provision to take into account the cultural and geographical unity of this. This was not the case in this proposal. There were ridiculous situations when you gave Posavia along with the White Land. Look, they have nothing in common.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word has Tina Hefferle, to prepare Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u124	Thank you, Vice President. Here's what I'm gonna do. The error of the electoral system was determined by the Constitutional Court, not by political protagonists, as we heard earlier in the debate of one of Desus' members. Changes in the electoral borders, as we have always listened to by Desus, have been zealously advocated both in their position and in their debates. I have already said in my position that, yes, we must admit, changes in the boundaries of the electoral thefts would in fact eliminate this unconstitutionality that the Constitutional Court has warned about. However, we must be aware of the need to take a number of complex factors into account when drawing new borders. The districts must be geographically rounded up, as many voters as possible must be in them and the highest possible integrity of the municipalities must be maintained, as I have already stressed in my position. In addition to all that is difficult to achieve, the Minister will know this because he has been working on these drawings of the thefts and is also a constant expression of some of the wishes of individual Members. I will not list them, but we know that some very passionately advocate and lobby for certain borders, in order to put themselves on a new footing in the event that the borders are drawn again, because they are the boundaries where these Members are elected. And it's not a secret, it's a public secret. Mr Polnar said something about what the voter's voice had to do and he made some three assumptions very nice. However, in the third, which he mentioned, the voter's voice affects who will be elected to the National Assembly, but this item in this system that we now have does not hold back. Because we know that the elector who chooses one party in his district can surround only one candidate — the one offered to him by the party. And here the electorate has no choice but to sit in the National Assembly. This choice shall be made by the party when drawing up a list of candidates during its selection procedure. And this is where it ends. Here, the electorate practically loses this power that you really should have. It is obvious that this proposal is going in some direction of centralisation, even in my opinion, that it does not hold back. If we look at a candidate running in a small constituency with, for example, 9,000 voters, as we have heard before, this candidate has the opportunity to address only these 9,000 voters and no one else, although the electoral unit is made up of a significantly larger number of voters. We know that in this constituency, this same candidate, who is running in a small constituency, is practically competing with his colleagues from the party in this constituency. If I illustrate, he's competing on how to express himself, with 9,000 fans, and someone's competing with 25,000 fans he can talk to in his constituency. This relationship is absolutely unacceptable. As a result, we also have cases of Members sitting in the National Assembly with just over 350 votes and some sitting with 5,000 votes, which we think is unacceptable. This is the argument that we are not going to centralisation, but we are giving those candidates who have this small selection of voters now a larger number of voters. And this candidate will also be able to address those voters who were previously unable to vote. Here, it is up to the individual party what list of its candidates it will make. If one party decides to place on all the first places or on half of the list of candidates for the electoral unit some distinctive names, estrikers or known athletes, this is its legitimate right, choice, and this somehow points to some policy that this party wants to go. We have high-quality candidates here. Regardless of whether he is recognized as being famous, quality counts. Previously, we were able to hear from our SDS colleague, our candidates have good resumes, experience in politics and so on. That's what counts. And this should convince the electorate when he has a choice between eleven candidates, it is said that when he has the opportunity to give his preferred vote, he will have to be convinced by the quality of the future Member, not by recognition. And I am counting here on the common sense, the responsibility of our voters, after all, also perhaps on the responsibility of the parties to run for candidates who are suitable for this work or who are qualified or capable. But it is a fact that it is not necessary for good policy that you are already at the local level. You can be an expert in some field, and you also get good at politics and basically defend the interests of citizens. Here may I refer to Mr Lisco, who said that he was a Sevnik first, it seems to me that he is from Sevnica, that he is a local patriot first, that he will work for the local population where he was elected, and then only for the Slovenians, the other Slovenians. Yeah, well, please, come on! We all know that we are Members of the whole people, of all Slovenes and Slovenes, and in my opinion, local patriotism in the National Assembly has nothing to do. For this we have local communities, where some local interests are being pursued, and here all of us should be priorities Slovenia and Slovenia from all over the country, not scattered locally. So either this emphasis or the praise that everyone or most of the candidates is running at home, in the local district, this has nothing to do with it. This has nothing to do with it. You can, or you can be recognized in a wider geographical area, be a constituency if you're good, not if you're sitting in the chair of a committee, or if you're in the chair of the Vice-President, the President of the National Assembly, and people will see you. This does not guarantee that you will be recognized and then elected to the National Assembly. I think that, however, the criterion is the quality of the work, the quality of our discussions and the ability of some constructive cooperation in this house. This decentralisation can also be achieved by setting up our offices throughout Slovenia. Nowhere does it say that a Member must have his own office in the district where he is elected. It doesn't say that anywhere. She could have it out there somewhere else. It is said that contact with the electorate can be achieved by any Member in several ways. So I really don't see any problems in this or the objections or the eyewitnesses on our proposal don't drink water. I have also observed in the SDS position that the electoral system must be such that it allows for a real sense of people to co-form politics or anything. I agree, and that is why we give our voters, voters and voters the opportunity to choose who will represent them in the National Assembly. By a preferential vote, we could clearly express our will, we saw in the European elections that voters are very keen to use these rights and I see no reason why they should not be given these options in the national elections. It has been said that participation in the elections should also indicate whether this criterion is met or not, the real sense of people for some form of cooperation is true. Yeah, maybe I can agree with that. But I think that if voters had a chance to have a greater impact, which they would definitely have with a preferred vote, this participation in the elections could be even greater. I think it's bigger than smaller. If I touch any further facts from the point of view of Desus, represented by Mr Jurša. Now I don't know if he wrote his own position or not, if he's alone, he read the law very badly. The law, like the amendment of the law, also contains transitional and final provisions, which determine when this law or amendment of the law enters into force. This cut-off date is set at 21 December of this year. So all the elections that would have been elected after that date would have been chosen in a new way. And it is by no means true that what Mr Jurša has pointed out is that the Sharčev government wanted to change the electoral system just before the early elections for which we stood and run the elections on the new system just as ad hoc. That's not true. I believe that Mr Jurša knew about this information because he participated in all the discussions and coordination on this law. He also participated in the meeting when the leaders of the former coalition's parliamentary groups, together with New Slovenia and Levi, agreed to bring the law into the procedure, although we have 59 signatures, we lack the right signature for this required majority, but there are also the representatives of Desus, Mr Jurša's true leader agreed that the law goes forward in the procedure and that their committees in Slovenia will then be carried out in the meantime. Desus's point of view was also to Minister Medved that he did not make sufficient efforts to prepare appropriate legal solutions. That doesn't hold it so tight that I don't say anything worse. Mr Minister has worked extremely hard throughout the negotiations, both at President Pahor and at the National Assembly, and he has come several times to present a solution to change the borders of the election thefts. I must say that Mr Bear has made an extraordinary effort here to follow and satisfy some of the party's wishes and wishes of individual Members. As I have already said, some have been very pervasive in these wishes, and Mr Medved has taken them into account in most cases or to the greatest extent possible, and has drawn several proposals for these election districts, and not only one of them has been changed. He also made it clear that he was looking too narrowly at one side plus minus 20 percent of the deviation from individual thefts. In my opinion, there is nothing to be said for the Minister if he has assessed with his professional support that some of the derogations are too large to meet the conditions and criteria set by the Constitutional Court in its decision. I agree that the Constitutional Court does not speak anywhere about the extent to which this percentage of the derogation is, but we must be aware that if we were to write a law that has too much derogation in one direction or in another or in doubt, there would be someone who would be quick to challenge such a law before the Constitutional Court. In my opinion, I am not a constitutional lawyer, but I have some knowledge that the Constitutional Court would, in the case of derogation plus minus 20, that is already 40 percent together, can very likely say that such a solution is still unconstitutional, because there are still too many differences between the districts, resulting in the weight of voters in individual districts. Here are all congratulations to Minister Bear for this effort and for creative cooperation. I think you have taken very good account of all the proposals and wishes of Members, either by the coalition or by the former coalitions, as well as by the opposition or the new coalition. I think that I have summed up everything that I wanted to point out, but it is a fact that this novelty will probably not go through today, and if we go to drawing the borders of new thefts, it is important to be aware that these new boundaries will be over time, and this can very quickly, and because of the moving changes in demographics, they will become so disproportionate that they will once again lead to some unconstitutional situation that we now have and we are saving it. So my call, or my thought in drawing new thefts, is that over time we will have to change these borders over and over again, which, as I have already mentioned in my position, represents some instability for electoral legislation, which we know in some democracy in the country is extremely important because it is an elephant or democracy falls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word has Matthew the Widow, to be prepared by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I would like to say that we Members have been sent from people to people and Members could be very well aware that no Member has been sent to the National Assembly only with the votes he has received in his constituency. That is why I do not agree with my predecessor, a colleague who said that he was only a Member in his district. We must be aware that we are also Members of the people who are in other districts who do not have Members. If I can just summarize Gorenjska. I'm from the Kranj constituency. Škofja Loka has 2 Members, Kranj has 4 Members, Tržič has 1 Member, Radovljica 1, Kamnik 2 and Idrija 1. This means that in Gorenjska Jesenice, Kranjska Gora, Bled, Bohinj, Žirovnica they have no representative. And if you agree — but not with a colleague who said that he was only a member of his district — these congregations and those voters, who also contributed to our election, do not have their own representative, who represents them in the National Assembly. And that's not true, and I can't agree with that. I welcome today's change in the electoral system whether it is voted today or not. As we see from the debate, I fear it will not be voted on. Not because it wouldn't be good, but because some people don't want to, or they're afraid to get voted because they're afraid we're not gonna be in this room tomorrow. I also welcome this change because it brings a significantly better gender balance with regard to employment in the National Assembly, as it allows 40% of the opposite sex, gives it the opportunity to come to the National Assembly at all, and not only in those areas that are not electoral borders, but it is a system of restraints, that is: men, women; men, women. Or vice versa: women, men, women, men. Therefore, regardless of what someone wants or what is more appropriate at this time, there is a fact that we will have to change our existing electoral system. Not because we would all like it so much here, or because we do not want it, but because the Constitutional Court has found it, on the initiative of the Council of State, which has found that Article 4 of the Law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly is inconsistent with the Constitution. According to the Constitutional Judges, there is a significant discrepancy in size between the smallest and the largest constituencies. And if we sum up the case, Ormoz 13 thousand 606 voters, three MPs. Hražnik 7 thousand 568 voters, three MPs. In autumn, the good 24 thousand voters are only in the Jesenicas and no MPs. That's unacceptable. It is therefore necessary and today we have the opportunity and the opportunity to approach this problem. On the basis of the statistics of the previous elections, I can no doubt conclude that the distribution of the mandate is influenced by the size of the electoral district. That is why this change in the electoral system is urgently necessary. All candidates and voters must have equal opportunities to pursue their interests. On the other hand, we may also ask ourselves that if we were to join this system, it is also a matter of evaluating and rewarding the work of Members' candidates who are currently in the calling for this function. Each voter will be able to vote on the basis of concrete experience with him or assess his work, whether he has done well for his district, and not only for his district, but also for the wider part, for his region, or for the whole of Slovenia. I think that this system will have an even greater impact on motivation and engagement, and only on the work of current Members throughout the environment. The very way of voting seems very simple and transparent to me. A voter could vote to give a candidate a preferred vote, that is, a name and a last name. This is understandable to voters and would avoid the possibility of voting on the parties or lists, but would give them the opportunity and the opportunity to choose the person who might come from his neighborhood, perhaps from his place, maybe he knows his work, his obsession, maybe he knows him personally, or he has already met him through the media. In short, it would be a lot easier. And, as I have already mentioned, it would be much easier in Parliament to balance gender in this way. And if I finish. When some are very afraid of not being elected in this way, they are afraid because if we sum up Kranj, three Members and no Members are coming to the SDS. And they'd have a problem that would be different if they counted male, female, male, female. But I am answering this problem that it is not a problem, because it is a priority voice and I believe that people will decide for someone who is more capable, for whom they can expect to do more for them and to take over this city with a priority vote. This was not just an example of European elections, we see this in the four-year elections when it is elected in municipal elections, so this is just an excuse not to change the electoral system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Reberšek has the following word. But get ready, mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. The Constitutional Court recently found that Slovenian electoral legislation is contrary to the Constitution, as the electoral districts are not nearly the same. In reality, politics now has two options: electoral borders can change so that they will be as big, which is very difficult and very difficult, or simply remove them and establish a preferential voice. New Slovenia supports the introduction of a preferential voice, because the preferred voice is the purest form of democracy. Therefore, the policy objective is to establish an electoral system which treats the vote of each voter equally and, of course, takes it into account as much as possible. People just need to be given power. But we give them the power to choose one of the 11 candidates to be a Member, who will be their Member. Members are representatives of the people, and I therefore think it would be more appropriate if, by a preferential vote, voters decided who of the 11 candidates in the electoral unit would represent them in Parliament. This is what the parties do today instead of the electorate. Support to the parties in the districts is very predictable, as we know the results of all previous elections, and we already know in advance which regions are more left-handed. Can you imagine left-wing people putting their favorite candidate in the right-hand corner? I can't imagine. Voters are so forced to elect that candidate who is put in the district by the party. However, if we end the borders and introduce a preferential vote, the mandates will indeed be decided transparently by the people in the elections. Opponents of the introduction of a preferential vote, which today has been a lot of talk, often also cites the argument that in this case only Members from larger cities, not those coming from villages or from rural areas, would be elected. However, candidates from some rural areas should therefore have more difficult work and therefore these areas would be left without their Member. I argue that people in the countryside know each other much better than they do in cities, which may also be a major advantage in the election campaign. I also find it difficult to agree to this assumption that rural candidates are less capable and cannot achieve such recognition at the level of the constituency as colleagues from the city. I also find it hard to understand that someone from the city, from the block, has more options than someone who comes from a village or from a rural area or from smaller places. I believe that the issue of opponents of this electoral system is crucial, that they no longer have an impact on who will be elected as a Member, but that they have a significantly greater impact on the elections and on the electorate. Many say that if elections changed anything, they would be banned. However, I believe it will be difficult for the Member to vote in favour of a new system through which he was elected. It's like sitting on a branch and chewing it off yourself. I still hope that we will gather a lot of courage and wisdom to change this electoral law and to give more power to our voters and to the voters and not to the parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Bojana Muršič, and prepare Mr Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. In democratic societies, elections are a holiday of democracy. It appears that today we are also having a holiday in the National Assembly, where we are discussing a new electoral system. Voters are citizens who express their will in the elections, choosing their representatives to represent them in Parliament in this way. The choice of the electoral system is extremely important for each country, as the basic function of electoral systems is the functioning and legitimacy of the political system. The Constitutional Court found that the differences in the size of the electoral districts were so large that they were only inconsistent with the Constitution. This constitutionality must be abolished within two years. In recent months, the President of the Republic has made a number of efforts to circulate two options for the solution or elimination of this unconformity in the Constitution. The first was to follow the Constitutional Court's decision to reshape the constituencies in a way that, according to the number of inhabitants, is comparable and, at the same time, I stress, also geographically rounded. The second proposal followed this today's proposal to abolish electoral thefts and introduce a preferential vote after a somewhat identical system as we have for the European Parliament's election. Many consultations have been held. From what we've heard, there have been eight consultations with the President of the Republic. The proposal we have received the greatest agreement of political parties. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in the framework of the Parliamentary Club, we have considered this proposal, which we have today on the table, but was not yet so assigned at the first stage. I must say that we are pleased Members of Parliament, who are in this House of Parliament, that we have managed to balance the quota of the list from 35% to 40%. This means that 40% of gender representation will have to be ensured after this electoral system. Unfortunately, as a society, we still find that this should be self-evident, but unfortunately as a society, we still find that we are not mature enough and that this would be self-evident to ensure gender balance on the candidate lists. I think we will finally have to make one move in our thinking, in our actions, and also in our own politics, that balance is extremely important. A greater presence and commitment to balance is essential that this representation is ensured, because we all know that men think differently, that women are different, that we are also interested in another policy, and when you put it all together, I must say that there can be very important movements that are one step ahead. In all policy so far, women have fought extremely hard to reach this quota. Of course, these quotas, despite the fact that elections are then held, do not achieve that 40% employment, but have had the opportunity to do so, and in the end it is known in this mandate that women are in politics or in Parliament. I am saddened, however, by one proposal, which, in this proposal we have, is lacking in that it does not include sex quotas for ticket holders by electoral unit. Because it can happen to us, even though I don't know how political parties will act to put men's candidates or women in all the first places, I'm going to say, and it can happen to us that we have hypothetically only men. Otherwise, after this proposal, it is possible to jump at a relatively low percentage, 4.5% of the total number of votes received by the candidate list in the electoral unit, but this will show time. I am also saddened by another criterion that would be very important to comply with. I must say that I come from a relatively small constituency, where we have been elected by three Members, and one has no domain in our place. What's not wrong is, believe me, there's no office in town, there's no communication, there's only when the elections are in the constituency. This seems to me so much more important that it is that direct contact with voters, and it would dominate one of the important features that should be included in this proposal. But since there was not enough broad political support, we have a proposal on the table that we do have. Let me finish, even though I still have some time. Whether this electoral system that we have on the table today has had a greater impact on the electorate, which we are constantly talking about, we would like to see more voter influence, if there was one candidate list, show the next election after the new electoral system. However, as has been heard today from the entire debate, this proposal will not reach the appropriate majority, I expect the next government to prepare a proposal, which will fully follow the Constitutional Court's decision, to reshape the electoral borders in a way that is comparable to that of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Aljaž Kovacič has the following word, and Mrs Maša Kociper is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I think it's very dangerous for democracy if someone's electoral system defends or opposes them through the prism of their election. Today, in just a few debates, I have taken this into account. I have done quite a bit of electoral work myself, and I have actually written about the elections in the Republic of Slovenia, so I have quite a knowledge of the various electoral systems. The point of any electoral system should be that it is simple and that it is understandable to voters. Today's electoral system is certainly not understandable to voters. If I say something quickly. First, the customer must receive 4% in the territory of the whole of Slovenia in order to even be included in the National Assembly, then after two numbers, according to Droopov in the constituency and later after d'Hondt at the country level we determine who will sit in the National Assembly. And the fact is, even when you're waiting for the results, you don't really know whether you're going to be in the National Assembly or not, let alone make it clear to all citizens why you're falling into the temple of democracy. We have before us the decision of the Constitutional Court. This decision was made because, although this electoral system is incomprehensible, politics did not have the courage to pursue it and change it. Why? Because it suits someone that it's been like this for many years. Just as we discussed health care in the previous subject, so does many people there. The Constitutional Court has written down a lot. The point is that the constituency in size is not comparable to that of the population. Of course, this is not the one and only criteria that should be, more criteria are, which must be ensured, but this criterion falls. This is because, for example, as has been said many times today, Grosuplje has 31 000 electoral beneficiaries, but I think the district of Hrastnik is 8,000. Now that this constitutional decision has arrived, which we must resolve in two years, we have made eight rounds at the initiative of the President of the country. How successful we were or how unsuccessful each of us should be on our own. The solution, which somehow appeared, was more. Some have advocated a change in election thefts, some abolitions, and some have also advocated a change of constitution, because in the constitution itself we have written down what the electoral system must be. So that what the SDS advocates is called a two-way majority system, we should actually change the constitution. Of course, it would be ideal if we already had constituencies so that each district would have its own Member, but unfortunately this electoral system does not allow it. As far as the election heist is concerned. So it's one of the options that will be on our table if this marriage falls. Everyone imagines the minister sitting at the table tonight, and that's where he's drawing something. I've got to get the minister to the defense here. With the expert group, he prepared a solution for which, at least those of us who are real, we realized that whatever it was, someone would object to it. Because then everyone looked again through the eyes of his election. I believe that if you sit at the table, you can draw the constituencies in such a way that 70% of the candidates elected from the right are, but you can also draw them by making 70% of the candidates elected from the left. And that's the wrong thing to do, when we have the most likely election circuits on the table, everyone will look again through the prism of their eyes. How does this happen abroad? The expert committee prepares this abroad, then the Members vote on the law itself, but do not interfere with the limits of the electoral thefts themselves. When the Minister drafted this proposal for a law on changes in electoral thefts, almost every Member spoke, czech, my district is not right, this local community does not belong here. And in my view, politics should not be involved in this profession. But I doubt when we have these electoral circuits on the table, that's what's gonna happen to us. If I can answer some of the questions that colleagues Lisec and colleague Mahnic have said about the organisation of their party and how they collect candidates. Each party shall, by its choice, choose the candidates who run. If it's in their client so that they think it's okay, now the electoral system can't be subordinated to any party. Some clients have a different choice. It is said that the electoral system must be separate from that regardless of how a party has arranged the election candidates. If they have the most democratic system in the world, then the electoral system cannot be subordinated in any way. But I wonder when they're talking about how many democracies there are in choosing their candidates. We know today's electoral system, in one district you love one client and you have one candidate to choose. And if any candidate is already four seats in the National Assembly, then the resident of that district has actually been forced to elect one candidate for four years. Although he may be completely disappointed with him, if he likes the client, he is still forced to elect this candidate. Well, maybe then all he has to do is change his place of residence and then in the other district of the other candidate's election. I agree with my colleague Mahnik on raising the electoral threshold. I would add myself to the increase in the threshold for financing political parties. But the fact is, given that we couldn't even agree on that, I doubt we could have done that. As far as centralization is concerned. Yeah, there's centralisation in Slovenia, that's a fact. And it is this electoral system that we already have since independence that has led to centralisation. My predecessors also talked about the election campaign, how the election campaign itself would take place. If we listen to some Members when they are still candidates for Members, their electoral campaign, we ask ourselves whether they are running for MP or mayor. If a candidate for an MP promises to rebuild a village home to rebuild a swimming pool, I suggest he chooses to run for mayor, not a MP. In fact, voters are often very misled by the campaigns themselves. Some would return the mayors to the National Assembly. I was myself, I think I was even a minor when the mayors of parliament left. And I think it was one of the better decisions. First of all, because then those congregations were actually in favor. At the same time, today, when I am a Member of Parliament, I am even wondering how it was possible for some to be Members and Mayors. I don't know, it seems to me that if you're a high-quality mayor, it's almost impossible to perform the mayoral function. As for the statement of a colleague from SD when she said "domicil". I do not think that domicile is necessary, but I certainly advocate that customers put in their districts people who come from there. I think that first of all, we should be the first security guard in the parties themselves, that they are so aware that they put domestic people in their homes. In the end, however, voters have the right to vote and voters should then, in my opinion, punish such parties. In view of the fact that we had a minority government in this call to the National Assembly so far and that there was always a party that somehow broke matters. In this law, the decisive factor, if I may say so, was that the party Desus, who, I must say, has been actually defending her case from the very beginning, if I may, to my former coalition colleagues. They most likely advocate this electoral system of lottery because they have received, in their own opinion, the best Member in their history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Ms Masha Kociper is next, and Mr Ferenc Horváth is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Vice President. It's been a long time, and I won't say it again. For me, it is essential in this change that people have the feeling that they are choosing at least something. Yeah, it's true. They're choosing a client. That's why they're going to the polls. That's the whole point of this election to decide a political option that suits you, which has a good program. However, I am sure that it would mean a big change for people to be able to gather within this constituency among the people offered by this party. As my colleague has said before me, it is possible, in practice, that a party who wishes to vote in the same place in his district gives a year for a year or a term for a person who does not like the voter, but in fact he cannot do anything. This Member may be inactive, does not participate in the work of the National Assembly, does not make any proposals, is silent all the time or is absent, the Member shall have no possibility of having any effect on it. In this change I also think it is essential that it is very simple. The theory of electoral systems says that the electoral system must be such that people understand it. And this change is completely understandable. With this electoral system of the old, we are upgrading it to be more similar to the system of European elections that our people have already adopted. So, by removing the thefts, let's just make sure that instead of having the opportunity to surround only one, they choose between eleven and at their discretion move a Member more if they think they deserve it. This system really combines the ability of a party to influence who thinks they are those people who will do well and want to be in Parliament, and this option combines with the choice of an elector who carries out some kind of control of a party's work. One of the colleagues said earlier that it seemed to her that such arrangements could increase participation in the elections. I agree with that. I am extremely, extremely sad that our participation in the elections is getting smaller. Not so many years ago, a hundred years ago, we didn't even have election rights. Not long then we can't even do it. I think it's tragic. Not to mention young people who have no relation to it. Whether they're guilty or not, there's another debate because there's no time here right now. But I am intimately in favor of some arrangements like Australia has, where you have to go to the elections. You have to go. It's your civic duty. In the end, you can tear down a leaf or write “all of you are butts”. But you have to go. In this sense, however, it seems to me that when people really participate less and less in elections, one such change, which would offer a choice, could increase electoral participation. Nor do I agree with the fact that more or less it is claimed that people do not go to elections because they are disappointed in all politics. People who are emotional, angry, disappointed, going into action. This is known from psychology — if you are angry, hurt, disappointed, desperate, you go into action because you want to change something. When you're pretty much okay, it's not, or it's gonna be, because after all, you believe that something essential isn't going to get worse, and then you're not going. But it's not like that. Slowly, slowly, then, what can happen in Decla's sequel is if someone has watched it, which can be very, very, very futuristic, but approximate to some reality. That is how I still hope, if not this time, at least in this term we have not completely despaired of trying to bring our electoral system closer to the electorate and thus encourage them to vote and perhaps become politically activated. In this sense, I also welcome the fact that the Member is not only a Member of his district, but a wider area, because this is also the case with our constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Ferenc Horváth, and he is preparing himself as the last Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I didn't mean to advertise today in the debate, but since we were a little bit challenged in today's debate, I think there is a need for certain things to be clarified. The 1974 Constitution was therefore the first to mention the self-government national communities as a kind of positive approach to solving minority issues or problems. In fact, Slovenia has taken this positive approach to independence and, if memory does not deceive me, and as far as I have read about it, this positive approach by Slovenia to positive indigenous communities has also had a positive impact in the recognition of Slovenia itself and in the admission to certain international institutions. As far as minority legislation in Slovenia is concerned, I think it is among the best in Europe, which does not mean, of course, that all matters are as arranged as minorities would like. But to be perfectly honest, I think this legislation is always a good starting point or basis for the operation of both indigenous national communities. Therefore, my fellow Member and I have also proposed that the issue of indigenous national communities, or minority legislation, could be one of the topics that Slovenia would somehow highlight during the Presidency of the European Union as an example of positive practice. The Constitution in article 80 speaks of the fact that in the National Assembly there is always one member of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, as well as the Constitution in the comic book, that there are also two indigenous national communities living in this country, which I think is also indicative of this positive discrimination and, as the Constitution also states, that both indigenous national communities are a national community and not an interest group, as we have said today. As far as double electoral rights are concerned. This issue has already been addressed by the Constitutional Court, and they have actually confirmed this in this legislation, and also various European institutions have somehow seen and acknowledged that this is a very self-solution in Slovenia, but I believe it is very good and correct, which we should also in other countries in some way imitate, that members of indigenous national communities do not actually have to decide between representatives of our community and between parties in elections. Maybe another piece of data like some kind of curiosity. As we have looked at the statistics today, we have found that more than a quarter of Members have received fewer votes in recent elections than the representatives of the Italian or Hungarian national communities, and as far as this is concerned, the number of votes we have come to the National Assembly is quite envious. As for my vote today, as I mentioned in the debate, I will abstain from voting. I think of myself as a man of my word, when I give my word, then I don't break it either. I personally support the change in the election of a member of the national community, which is why I also contributed my signature because I think that the system would be simpler, which is also in the interests of the electorate. However, when we discussed this in the world of the umbrella organisation, there were major differences as to this. In particular, representatives from smaller congregations expressed some kind of concern that the majority system would actually have the privilege of a representative coming from, say, the largest congregation, Lendava. The considerations were similar to what we have heard in the debate today, as far as roof legislation is concerned. While I am aware that I can vote legally today as my conscience dictates or my decision, but because I am a person who likes to hear about all the important issues of our umbrella organisation, I have also decided in this case to stick to this opinion, and that is why I will abstain from voting today. That's the only reason I've made this decision. There's nothing more behind it than some people today might want to show it. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister, who also had an excellent, sensitive and good approach to both national communities in this legislation, as well as in the entire two years. I wish him well in the future, and I hope that the new Minister will have a similar approach to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you very much. As a last resort, he gets the word, Mr. Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Since I have two and a half minutes, I won't be able to say what I want to say, but still, some things I'd like to point out. First of all, I would like to say that the constitutional decision states that the proportional electoral system is in conformity with the Constitution. Only certain things need to be changed. All those people who said it wasn't, you were so wrong. In some ways, he himself would be a proponent of dominance, because some prominent politicians do not run in their constituencies, but go to run elsewhere where they can actually reach the parliamentary mandate. I have never seen through my eyes that I would insure myself that I would become a Member next time, but I must say that I have always run in my constituency and get twice as many votes in my constituency as the party on average received. This is said to have been trusted by the electorate in such elections as by a man, in some way. The Minister didn't do everything that was agreed upon, even though he did something. However, in changing the borders of the constituencies, he no longer showed interest mainly because they had already agreed within the party which electoral system they would like to have, because the question sent to the President of the Government was raised before the law was actually passed, and there was also a concrete expression of what the party wanted. These are the main things I wanted to point out. Those who come to the Ministry will have to address this issue and they will have to adapt to some size, so that we can really try to change things into another. Of course, in the future it is not said that the entire electoral system could not be changed. This time it is crucial that we change what has been imposed by the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Court has how many lawyers? Some quoted a certain lawyer from Maribor. No, no. The Constitutional Court has a certain number of constitutional lawyers who responded in the manner they responded.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I am not going to repeat my position on the very subject that is under discussion today. I think I've made it public several times, and I'm already here today. But I would still answer Mr. Jurša. Now I don't know if he's walking his memory, but he's been going on and on about there since last fall, and that's the only one who's been involved in all this process, and all the customers were there, the only ones that are obvious to me, what I haven't done. I say again, and this will also be agreed by my colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, that after the first proposal of the elections was somehow rejected, we are recognized as being unacceptable, and, of course, I believe that it will be very difficult to reconcile the number of voters in the district in the future and then the geographical rounding of the municipalities and all that, very difficult. And this has also been tried by those who have accepted cooperation in such a way that we have prepared an application in which it has been possible to change the boundaries of election thefts in all possible ways and that this option has been used by two parties. I think that work is still probably going on inside these apps today, and both parties are still trying to shape the boundaries of election thefts. We have also organised several workshops for those who would like to participate in changing the boundaries of the election circuits. In short, we've done a lot more, and we've actually set the standard for this. Of course, Desus was never around, nor were you responding to calls for your cooperation. I am sorry if, in the end, you have not participated in this change in the boundaries of the electoral thefts, while for example, at least two parties have worked very hard to do so. Then of course that's not our problem. It was all available, and it's still there. I believe there is more. So I think that once and for all this debate about how much someone has tried could be concluded. I think that we have done much more than was actually in our power, given that everything we have drawn, as far as changing the boundaries of the election thefts, has been rejected in one way or another, that everything is bad. So I firmly reject this and I will always firmly reject it, Mr. Jurša, if you keep saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Jurša, you wanted a replica, but the time of your delegation is up. You have been given the floor by all the debaters you wanted, but because the time set for the debate remains, I ask you whether you wish to discuss the matter further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since I see it's an interest, I'll open the application, so sign in. We've got one of the advertised discussers. Mr. Jurša, you have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u142	I'm not going to be long, I'm going to be very short, because I haven't had a chance to replicate things, so let me put it this way. Mr. Minister, I respect what you've done, and I also commend you for what you've done. But one thing you didn't do. And I would remind you, if you remember that meeting, one in eight when the President of the Republic had to ask several times to prepare certain things in the area of election thefts. I'm only reminding you so much that we won't go through any loose ends in this room.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and interrupt the 16th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 7 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 6.24 p.m. and resumed at 19.00 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u144	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in the following order. First, point 1a of the 12th point, then point 8, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 and 1 and finally point 12 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're moving on to 12. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. First of all, the proposal for a decision to act as a Member instead of a Member acting as President of the Government. Since Member Janez Ivan Janša, at the time of his office as Prime Minister of the Government, cannot act as a Member of the Parliament, the State Election Commission forwarded to the Assembly a decision establishing the right to act as a Member instead of a Member acting as President of the Government, Janez Moškrič. The decision of the State Election Commission was addressed by the Commission on the mandate and election, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. May I have your attention, please? Thank you very much. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? No, no, no. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. Would you like a word from the Member of Parliament and Members? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and move to a vote. I put to the vote the following motion for a decision: As long as Member Janez Ivan Janša serves as Prime Minister of the Government, he has been acting as Member of the National Assembly since today, Janez Moskrič, born on 15 February 1979, residing in the presence of God you 2a, Šentvid near Stična. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 87 votes against none. [[The vote was 87.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite Ambassador Janez Moškrič to join us and take over his post. I wish my colleague to perform the work of a Member successfully in the parliamentary benches. / applause/ I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we will continue immediately after the end of agenda item 1. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections to the National Assembly is appropriate for further consideration. I inform you that a decision will be taken if, in accordance with Article 80, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, at least two thirds of all Members and Members vote for it. Somebody raise their hand? [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs. Widow, did you raise your hand? Is the explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members or on its own behalf? On my own. Here you go, Mrs. Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Today we are so close to a solution to change the electoral system. I don't believe we'll ever be this close to this solution again. We may be missing only one or two votes and give voters the opportunity to actually give their vote to the candidate they have decided to be the best to represent them in the National Assembly. I consider the amendment of the law to be good, excellent, and will also balance the gender balance in the National Assembly, and we have a much greater chance than we have before. I will therefore vote in favour of the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 30. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Industrial Property Act in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 76 votes against 3. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Penal Code under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 86 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Law in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 37. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th paragraph of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Constitutional Court Act under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 88 votes against none. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Military Duty. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Military Duty is appropriate for further consideration. Miha Kordiš wants an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u147	We will vote in Levica against the re-introduction of recruitment. We already knew the recruitment system of the army in this country 20 years ago, and then the Slovenian youth showed very clearly what you were thinking about such a system of thought. Consequently, the recruitment in this country was abolished. At the time, society was smart enough to listen to the desires and needs of young people. Now we've obviously found ourselves at another time when the political class wants to reintroduce recruitment, and that's for Nate's army. I'm making an entire political class. Today, we do decide on the law that the Slovenian Democratic Party has brought to the table, but there is also a political environment with recruitment, which we can read in the white book on defence, which also foresees and opens the door to the introduction of recruitment between 2025 and 2030. These are all fictitious answers to the real problems young people face in this country. But instead of providing them with high-quality jobs in order to break down the chastity of building 10,000 new public non-profit apartments, he now wants to force them into the barracks. Why? That's where he washes their heads with fake patriotism. So that instead of active citizenship, they can be taught obedience to every single authority, either in the workplace or at the top of the country. And to instill in their heads a fictitious threat, as everyone seems to be surrounded by, from refugees to the Russian Federation. However, the truth is that Slovenia is not militarily threatened, nor are the numbers of the Slovenian Army's perfection really being perfected only according to the measures of some administrative commitments that the Slovenian political summit, without consulting its own people, has given NATO. In short, there is no good reason for us to reintroduce recruitment. In Levi, we strongly oppose recruitment, as long as we have the army as we have it, an army that is in fact an expeditionary corps for American imperialism, an expedition corps for NATO's warships, not a defence force to defend the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u148	We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 51. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 7 of the Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, namely: Proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 7 of the Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, to be adopted. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 1. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly, so we are moving on to a vote on the text of the authentic interpretation. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] Is everything okay? [[advertising from the hall]] I will read again the proposal for a decision. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly, so we are moving on to a vote on the text of the authentic interpretation. Is he okay? We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 1. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the motion for a resolution on the National Environment Programme for the period 2020-2030. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative-Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. Mr Jelinčič wants to explain his vote on behalf of the Group member. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u149	This motion for a resolution is a victory that can only be won together in Slovenia. Without serious solutions, there are some statistics that often do not have a real connection with reality. This could be said to be a national protection programme for primary schools, not environmental protection for the period 2020-2030. This thing is completely de-laxed. This has also been discussed by a number of experts, but only what the Government says should be accepted in the Slovenian Parliament. Most of the time, however, there is very little to think about. Because we are thinking in our client and what things we are also reviewing, and we are also consulting with some serious experts, not from the Government paid adlatus, we will vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 42, 4 votes against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the answers of the Ministers and Ministers who are carrying out the ongoing operations of 5 March 2020, which was published on the e-club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I just have a procedural question. Now it's gonna turn out to be a mess. We will now vote on the questions sent to the ministers, which will no longer be answered next month at the next meeting. And in the event of an accident, we hypothetically vote on the questions they asked, who will answer next month. I think we need to be smart enough not to vote on this. I don't understand. We can go against it, but what if we're in. Then who's gonna answer next week? Mr. Shirtzel for the finance? I'm asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u152	Look, the proposals have been made and we will vote on them. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Minister of Health, Mr Aleš Šabedra, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš in connection with the drafting of systemic legislation. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 9, 71 votes against. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 71.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We move on to the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, who carries out ongoing business of Zdravka Počilska, to the question of the Member of the Parliament, Dr. Franca Trček, regarding the state tourism holding as a party prey and not as a development opportunity for Slovenian tourism. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 25, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Do you want to take a break? [[Laugh]] Obviously, I don't know if I'm using any inappropriate words. We turn to the third proposal:The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, who carries out the ongoing work of Dr Jernej Pikal, to the question of the mission of Bosniak Koražija concerning the operation of technical staff in public educational institutions in the field of tertiary education. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. 10 votes to 73. The vote was 10.) [[Against 73.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We move on to the fourth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Justice in the current business, Andreja Katič, and Minister of Health in the current business, Aleš Šabedra, to Violet Tomić's question on the new translation of the Single Convention on Drugs and the legislation in the field of illicit drugs. We're voting. 86 Members and Members are present. 17 votes to 69. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 69.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We move on to the fifth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space in the current business, Simon Zajc, to Bosniak Koražija's question on measures to reduce air pollution with particles. We're voting. 85 Members and Members are present. The vote was 11 to 70. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 70.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda, this is with the Mandate- voluntary matters. We are moving on to the proposal for the appointment of two Deputy Ombudsmans. On 6 February 2020, the Ombudsman proposed to the National Assembly that Marjeta Cotman and Dr Jožet Ruparčič be appointed Deputy and Deputy Ombudsman for 6 years. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Ombudsman to Peter Svetina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u153	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The Human Rights Ombudsman Act provides that the Ombudsman shall have at least two and a maximum of four deputies. At the beginning of my term, I had four deputies. The term of office of Deputy Ombudsman expired in May 2019 and, on his proposal, the Deputy Ombudsman was dismissed in April 2019. In view of the above, I have two deputies on 23 May 2019. In view of the scope of the areas of work temporarily redeployed to existing deputies, on 5 April 2019 I issued an invitation to collect proposals for possible candidates for a Deputy or Deputy Ombudsman. He was responded to by 19 candidates with whom I conducted individual talks. Among the 19 candidates I chose Marjeta Cotman and Dr Jožet Ruparčič. Ms Marjeta Cotman served in her broad career as Head of Petitions and Secretary of the Commission for Petitions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Its work covered the most challenging tasks in the most responsible legal areas. Dr. Jože Ruparčič has been in court for more than 20 years. As part of his work in the judiciary, he has constantly developed a scientific interest in legal phenomena that reflect the value of democratic culture. He is an expert in civil and economic law, he has long experience and extensive expertise. It is characterized by a broad knowledge of the field, a number of competences and its work so far covered the most challenging tasks in the most responsible legal areas. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the proposed candidates, with their work and expertise so far, have demonstrated that they are suitable for the performance of the post of Deputy or Deputy Ombudsman. They are distinguished by knowledge and credibility, so I believe that they will help me greatly to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We're moving on to decision-making. I am voting on a proposal for a decision appointing Marjeta Cotman as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of 6 years. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 1. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on a proposal for a decision appointing Dr Jože Ruparčič as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of 6 years. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 1. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I ask the appointed and appointed Deputy Ombudsman to join us. I ask the Deputy Guardian of Human Rights to swear before the National Assembly. Mrs. Cotman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u155	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good governance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you very much. /Applause/ You want to talk to the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for proposing me as his deputy. I would like to thank you, Members of Parliament, for your trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u158	/ applause/ Mariti Cotman, thank you for your words, congratulations, and I want a successful job. I ask the Deputy Human Rights Ombudsman, Dr. Jožet Ruparčič, to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u159	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good conduct. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u160	You want to talk to the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to thank you all very much for your election, and at the same time also to the Ombudsman for his proposal. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Dr. Ruparčič, thank you for your words, congratulations, and I wish him a successful job. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Koper District Court. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of the Magi. Anje Strovs in judicial capacity at the district court in the district court in Koper. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision, by which mag is elected to the judicial office of the District Court at the Koper District Court. Anya Stroms. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Postojna. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Line Marine Nagy to the judicial office of the District Court of Justice at the District Court in Postojna. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision, by which Lina Marina Nagy will be elected to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Maribor. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Helena Melliwa to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Maribor. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision, by which Helena Melliwa is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals for election to the judicial functions of the District Courts in the District Courts in Grosuplje, Kočev and Domžal. The Council of State submitted proposals to the Assembly for election to the District Court of Justice, namely Anje Gulje and Ines Rostohar, in a judicial capacity at the District Court of Justice in Grosuplje, Miha Šubare, in a judicial capacity at the District Court in Kočev and Mag. Eva Vihar Kranjec in judicial capacity at the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Domžal. The proposals were addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. First of all, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision which elects Anja Gulje as a judge of the District Court of Justice in the Grossuplje District Court. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision by which Ines Rostohar is elected as Judge of the District Court of the District Court in Grosuplje. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that elects Miha Šubar as a judge of the District Court in Kočev. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will elect a mag as a judge of the District Court of Justice in the Domžalah District Court. Eva Vihar Kranjec. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the Resolution of the Judge of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana for a Decision in Social Disputes. Ms Ana Jaklič, President of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, presented to the National Assembly a proposal for the discharge of the judge of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide on the social disputes of Helena Miklavčič. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision by means of an explanation giving rise to the reasons for the discharge. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to resolve the judge of the jury of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide on the social disputes of the institutions of Helena Miklavčič. We're voting. 85 Members and Members are present. It's 82 votes against no one. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, the members and alternates of the Investigative Commission on the identification of abuses in the case of Franc Kangler and others. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the election of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. On 4 March 2020, on the basis of Article 199(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of 47 Members and the first-signed Janjo Slug proposed Igor Zorčič as the candidate for the President of the National Assembly. Does the representative of the proposer Janja Služ want to further explain the proposal for a candidacy? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u163	Dear Members and Members, Citizens and Citizens! The current political situation requires us Members to take another step towards stabilising our political space in accordance with our mission. Since a stable political situation also requires a stable leadership of the National Assembly, the signatories to the National Assembly's candidacy propose that Member Igor Zorčič be elected President of the National Assembly. The candidate for president is a university-graduate lawyer and, after completion of his studies, he was first employed in an insurance company where he worked as a lawyer in the Department of International Compensation Claims. In 2004, he worked as an expert at the District Attorney's Office in Krske, where he worked until 2009. Until his election as Member of the National Assembly in 2014, he served as a lawyer. In the previous reference to the National Assembly, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space was chaired and as a member participated in many of the remaining working bodies. At the 2018 parliamentary early elections, he was entrusted with the second term of office by the electorate and electorate. In its current reference to the National Assembly, he shall be responsible and duly acting as Head of the Group of Members. He was also entrusted with the role of the Head of the Working Group to draw up an ethical code for Members by the President of the National Assembly. The working group under his leadership has already completed its work and has also prepared the text of the ethical code for adoption. In the framework of membership in the Friendship Groups and in the previous term as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, a number of interparliamentary meetings and events took place. This is particularly important in the light of the upcoming Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in which the National Parliament and its President will play an important role. His legal nature has been reflected in his ability to take an analytical view of social developments, and the ability to negotiate and weigh his experience so far has strengthened his professional path. If we also take into account his experience on the political floor, then we can with optimism mature to the time when he will lead the National Assembly. We are convinced that Igor Zorčič will perform this important state function successfully. His experience so far is undoubtedly proof of his suitability to serve as President of the National Assembly. We believe that he will be guided by values of respect, tolerance, prudence, openness to diversity, cooperation and honesty at work. We trust his commitment, maturity and wisdom to enable the conditions for the democratic, successful and quality work of the National Assembly, thus helping to strengthen responsible political culture and the image of well-functioning and advanced parliamentary democracy. The Member and candidate for the new President of the National Assembly, in the context of its past work, irrespective of programme and world-level diversity, has always cooperated constructively and properly with fellow Members from all parliamentary groups, and we believe that this attitude and way of working will continue after today's vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Anybody want a word? I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. Everyone has five minutes. The first is Victory Jelinčič noble on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We will support Mr Zorčič in our Group of Members. We are confident that a good president, if not, will be “ironing” him at every turn. But I'm sure [[advertising from the hall]] What, is something wrong?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u166	Mr. Jelinčič, please come to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u167	I'm coming. I thought we'd shorten the matter a little bit to get to the vote sooner, but let it be. I've already told you, we will support Zorčič's colleague. We're sure he'll make a good president. It will be difficult for him to reach the level that his colleague, who will now be Minister of Defence, has voted against military obligations. However, I am sure that he will be more taken than a colleague on this left hand side, who on many occasions did not hope to make any stronger words for the position of the National Assembly. I think the position of the National Assembly is above the Ministry, and that is what ministers should be told. Ministers confirm themselves here, laws are confirmed in here, and ministries have to comply with them. I hope, my colleague, that you will take this matter on your list, in your itinerary, and that you will not give up on what has also happened, that various ministers have been blackmailing the National Assembly, that it must work on their instructions, even though laws have been on our side on many occasions, and they wanted to be violated, especially at the Ministry of Finance. So, dear fellow, we're gonna be looking at you. You know, sometimes I'm gonna get a cup of coffee, and I'm gonna take you out if I have to, but I want you to do a good job.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by Felice Žiža on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u169	Your Honor, I'll be very brief. The Italian and Hungarian National Community Group will support the candidate for the Igor Zorčič National Assembly. We are also convinced that he will be a good president, that he will do well, and that is why we wish him much happiness and success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Franz Jurša will present the position of Desus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you. Good evening, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, my words are originally intended for my pomurish cousin with a squire's breath. Dear Dean, I thank you for the professional, responsible leadership of the National Assembly. Together with 89 Members of the various criteria, it is not easy to sail. However, if the helm respects and with a great deal of wisdom, it consistently implements the written rules defining the important function to which it has been appointed, and it also has with it faithful fellow workers who help it, the ship still sails safely after such a raging sea. Mr. Dejan, thank you. Members and Members were elected on Tuesday by the new 14th Prime Minister of Slovenia. A new coalition is forming, there is a ministerial team being set up ahead of us, and a full-time job can begin one day after that. All the parties we have signed are aware of the challenges ahead. As usual, the seat of the President of the National Assembly shall be taken by the second largest party. We have before us the proposal to appoint Mr Igor Zorčič as President of the National Assembly, which we will unanimously support in the Desus Group. We trust the coalition partner of the Modern Centre Party to propose the most important representative of the democracy of wisdom and cooperation. Mr Zorčič is my political companion from the previous term. In this mandate, we share a bench at the head of the parliamentary groups and assess it as a person with competence and a sense of fellow human being. Members of the Desus Group believe that Mr Zorčič, as a legal expert, will be able to listen and respect all of us. Above all, we believe and trust that he will be able to enforce such a culture of integration and cooperation in Parliament, so that today too stable political divisions will be cut to the right and left. This is what Slovenia needs at this point in blood, because in the coming weeks, we will have to show Members that we can work for people. Dear Igor Zorčič, on behalf of the entire parliamentary group, I wish you a successful job in running the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the views of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected citizens and citizens! After us, there are some closed circles that, according to our assessment, will make an important contribution to the stabilisation of political space and thus to the image of a well-functioning and advanced parliamentary democracy. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are pleased that we have demonstrated in this turbulent period enough constructiveness and willingness to overcome differences and divisions. Our contradictions are supposed to stem from the theoretically understood heterogeneousness, but in fact they are the result of the actual disintegration of our political space, and this massacre should not have been proud of us in the middle of the 21st century. Today is the best candidate for the new President of the National Assembly – Igor Zorčič. Igor Zorčič is an experienced Member. Think with your head. He is a discerning, charismatic, responsible and respected leader of the parliamentary group. His professional, political and managerial experience so far, his personality holds no less, dictates that he will act as President of the National Assembly in an integrated, responsible and respectful manner in honor of Parliamentism. Under his leadership, all processes in this temple of democracy will be transparent, reliable and in accordance with the principle of power-sharing. His attitude towards everyone in this House, his attitude towards the general public, his attitude towards citizens and citizens will be open and integrated. The Presidency of the legislative branch of the Authority requires not only a little patience, a search for consensus, but also a decisive opposition to the interests that do not belong in this House and in this Chamber. The Presidency requires fairness, wisdom and, in particular, prudence in the coordination of the Member's wishes, initiatives and requirements. Today's candidate for President of the National Assembly meets these criteria. We are also convinced that he will be able to assess when the threshold for respect for dialogue will be exceeded. Without determination and great tolerance, it is impossible to perform the most demanding political functions. And Igor Zorčič is well aware of that. My colleague Igor has shown by his conduct that meaningful and proper cooperation between Members of the various parties is possible and, in fact, only promising if we want legislative solutions to continue to be adopted in favour of the well-being of all people. And with this, of course, in favour of the comprehensive development of our society. To the candidate for president, leader and colleague Igor Zorčič, we are pleased to express our support for the modern Centre's Group of Members. We wish him a happy hand in writing a new chapter on the history of Slovenian statehood and parliamentaryism. Let the values of the free, patient and open state of the Republic of Slovenia continue to shine through the management of this highest representative institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Before voting on the new President of the National Assembly, I would like to express my sincere thanks to my fellow Member of the Magi. To dejane jedan for an excellent job. It is believed by the Group of Social Democrats, and I believe that the majority of you, too, have set extremely high standards of correctness, trust and equality for all Members and Members, regardless of their client card. And that's the way it is. The first of these is not only a conversational phrase or a symbolic entrapment, but the wisdom and essence of the work of the National Assembly as the highest legislative body and its democratically elected 90 Members and Members, representatives of the people, who should take decisions for the good of the people and with the highest degree of integrity, respect for the rules of procedure and the constitutional and legislative order of the Republic of Slovenia for the benefit of the people. It is also a place of debate, many times quite turbulent. That is why, especially at a time when the political sphere, instead of arguments and respectability, is faced with manipulations, manipulations and insults, there are so many expectations about this function. That the President or the President of the National Assembly will be the figure who will clearly and decisively close the door to everything that politics is now like the once respected art of finding the best ways for the challenges that have arisen, and that it moves away from its primary mission and gives it the taste of the bad without listening to people and their needs. The President of the National Assembly is the first guardian of the democratic legislative process, and also, if you like, the first guard of the interests of the people against any attempt at partisan and harmful influences that do not belong in this Chamber of democracy. It is also a person who, in view of his complex challenges at this time, hears people's expectations that through discussions, cooperation and discussions it enables participation and the national assembly to strengthen its openness, flexibility as an inclusive panel. Mag. Dean Jedhan did a great job on this part of the mission. We have witnessed many events, debates, presentations and landmarks, and most importantly, the possibilities of becoming part of public policies and being co-formed with us in one way or another. When a new coalition was formed, it is the belief of the Social Democrats that we will receive a new leadership from the National Assembly as soon as possible. We know the candidate for President Igor Zorčič in the Group of Social Democrats as a co-operation of a targeted and honourable Member willing to listen, who makes his views known in a reasoned manner. We believe that his experience in Parliament and in the past will benefit him well, and we sincerely wish him all the best in doing this extremely responsible work, in fact, a mission that we believe will not be easy, but therefore no less noble. In our view, however, it is right and responsible for the candidate to find confidence in the new coalition in the given political situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is actually the only opportunity I can truly thank the President of the Mag on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats. To Dean Jedhan and his entire crew. In a way like the localpatriot, I regret that the Club of Pomarian Members loses such an important function as the President of the National Assembly. On the other hand, on the other hand, I guarantee and expect that this emerging government will treat not only central Slovenia in the same way, but also the entire robbery of our country. The stronger the robbery, the stronger the country. Mr Zorčič, dear colleague Igor, we have accompanied your candidacy for Members and Members of New Slovenia with 7 signatures. And what's more, we're going to turn in seven loudspeakers and circle the word for it. We support you. My personal assessment, which marks you, as I have learned since 2014, which we have been looking together for solutions and accepting them as our citizens and citizens, is that for you, I hope, it is characteristic that you will always think twice about the word before you say it. We don't have any special expectations for you as the first of the same. Perhaps, for the first time, that you will do your best between us to create the highest possible culture of parliamentary dialogue, parliamentary debate. And another, very simple, consistent compliance with all the rules, the rules that apply to this house. Well, if you ever need any advice, I'm sure the door of the former president of the National Assembly of Mags will be. Matthew Tonin is always open. I trust you'll ever sit down. Good luck, buddy Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Anybody want a word? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. Two candidates have been reported. The first one gets the word "Victor" by the noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you. On my personal behalf, too, I congratulate my colleague in advance who will take this important place. In all, one of them is very much on the run, whether or not my colleague Jurša had that, I apologize, even written.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today I had many questions about whether I would support the candidate for the President of the National Assembly, which I found extremely unusual and a little funny, because in fact the difference between the Government and the National Assembly is more than obvious and some still do not separate it after all these years. The President of the National Assembly shall be the first of the same, and the President of the Government shall receive the first duress. And that's the essential difference. That is why, of course, I support Igor Zorčič as President of the National Assembly. Not because he is a lawyer, but because he has experience, but because he has integrity because he has no backpack and because he has proved, of course, his work to this day, that he is capable of running the National Assembly. But let me say on this occasion what's more important to me. This does not mean that if the coalition has gathered enough votes to support, because it is usually that when the Government is divided and agreed to support it, it is also within the coalition of the President of the National Assembly that only the coalition votes on it. I will be disappointed if I do not see any other votes of support to the President of the National Assembly, because I myself, even if I were not at another opportunity in the coalition, would certainly also support the president, for example from Mr Tank's SDS, without the problem of Matthew Tonin, without the problem of Mr Vatovac, because, above all, everything is one. This is that when we choose the first one of the same, it is the president of this house who will defend the National Assembly towards the government and place it next to the side that belongs to it. Here, Igor, I wish you great happiness and success, given that I know that you will be elected and others will also have reason for some culture that needs to be changed in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate between Members and Members. We're moving to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the election of the President, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. The leaders of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for members and members of the voting committee. These are Franc Breznik, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group; Andreja Zabret, the Marjan Sarca Group; Janja Slug, the Modern Centre Party's Group and Blaž Pavlin, the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Jernej Bergoč will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Or does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission's composition? I see you don't. We are moving on to a decision from the commission. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 82 votes against 1. [[The vote was 82.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word for or against the word on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the President will be elected if the majority of all Members vote for him. That's 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which is at the table next to the voting booths. Before we proceed to the secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that persons who are not involved in the vote shall not be allowed to vote during secret ballots in the Chamber. I therefore call on all representatives of the Government and the experts of the parliamentary groups to leave the Chamber at this time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 20.25 and will last until 20.40. After the vote, I ask Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 20.55. If you'd listened, you'd have heard. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 20.18 and resumed at 20.55.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u183	We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to a closed 12th point – Proposal for the election of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm publishing the outcome of the vote. Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the Proposal for the election of Igor Zorčič as President of the National Assembly. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 5 March 2020. 88 ballots were distributed. 88 ballots were delivered. There were 11 invalid ballots. There were 77 valid ballots. 48 members voted in favour. 29 members voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Igor Zorčič is elected President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. / applause/ Igor Zorčič, President-elect of the Republic of Slovenia, congratulates Igor Zorčič and wishes him great success in his duties. President Igor Zorčič wants to address the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u184	Dear colleagues, fellow citizens! I've done a whole tract of what we're going to do in two years, but since it's a late hour, I've decided not to read it all. Maybe there'll be more for the media. I would like to thank you for your support, which means more to me than I can say here. I am honoured that by my election as President of the National Assembly, I am entrusted with building on the heritage of all those who wrote the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, Democracy and Statehood in this function. You have given me great responsibility, but you know that in these two years I will not build parliamentary democracy alone, but with you. We were elected to the National Assembly as candidates for various parties and national communities. The votes we received were aimed at different ideas, different priorities. To reduce waiting times in health care, to confront poor demographic trends, to create an even more competitive business environment, to improve the functioning of social sub-systems are, for example, some of these ideas. They all have a common denominator to make us all better in Slovenia. But we can only do better if we make quality and socially acceptable decisions. Therefore, we must respect the rules and procedures, respect each other and strengthen dialogue. I myself will direct all my knowledge and energy to these ends, to this function. I thank all those who will be involved, fellow Members, Members, professional colleagues and all the other employees of the National Assembly in advance. To conclude, let me first thank the President for having carried out this meeting today, with his predecessors in this mandate, my colleague Dejan Židan and Matthew Tonin, I have closely monitored your work, and have learned something from you. I would also like to thank all my fellow workers. Without you, every day in this House would be harder and less successful. Good luck to all, happy Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u185	I thank the President of the National Assembly for his words and ask him to take the presidency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u186	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I conclude this agenda item and the 16th meeting of the National Assembly.
