ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 17th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Franz Rosec, Gregor Židan, Felice Žiža, Matthew T. Vatovec from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m., Blaž Pavlin to 10 a.m., Jerca Korče to 12 noon, Aljaž Kovacič to 15 p.m., Mateja Udovč from 15 p.m., Suzanne Leup Šimenko and Nada Brinovšek. I say hello to everyone who's here! If I heard correctly, is one procedural before we move to point four? Colleague Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Yesterday, at 10 p.m., there was a precedent that essentially violates our democracy. Parliamentary practice was until today or yesterday, in accordance with Article 69, that the Member should explain its procedural proposal within three minutes. He explains it first and then tells why he is making a procedural proposal. Our fellow German was not allowed to do so yesterday. What was that all about? In fact, the Minister for Foreign Affairs abused the Rules of Procedure when he spoke about a question that was not discussed at all. And if I define, the Member of the German Parliament has been violated Article 69 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the President shall give the floor to a procedural proposal as soon as he so requests; the speech of this Member shall not take more than three minutes; there shall be no debate on the procedural question or on the proposal. Furthermore, paragraph 2 of Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure was violated, saying: “A Member may object to the withdrawal of the word. The objection shall be decided by the State Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote.” That was never given to the German MP. It also violated its right to raise an oral question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. At the very least, what is expected or expected is that, as President of the National Assembly, you follow the rules of procedure to talk to the Vice-President about his conduct, for such conduct is unacceptable in the National Assembly. It is also a matter of concern that Mr Tanko has been asking a lot of procedural questions and also misused procedural questions in all these mandates since he was, but no one has ever taken it away from him. Not as chairman of the National Assembly. What Vice-President Tanko allowed yesterday is always a mockery of parliamentaryism, which should be the first place in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u3	Dear colleague, I promise to open this subject up in consultation with the leader of the parliamentary groups, which we will have tomorrow, by trying to agree on as uniform a practice as possible on procedural and then on all these measures as the rules of procedure allow. I would also ask that – one of the things we will have to discuss is the abuse of procedural proposals. I hope you're all aware that today we can't solve things from the past days, for example, not yesterday. As promised, we will discuss this at the consultation, so I hope that this procedural one will not be tied to what happened yesterday. A colleague of Tina Hefferle's, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. My procedural proposal will be very clear and I will first justify it in three minutes. Of course, it is related to or encouraged by yesterday’s event. In my opinion, the leadership of Mr Tank has been catastrophic lately, even since he became the coalition Vice-President of the National Assembly. As long as we have a Rules of Procedure that defines a procedural proposal as it is allowed to explain each Member in three minutes, it is the right of every Member and must not be disturbed, to jump into his word or more, to take his words. When we change the rules of procedure to define procedural proposals in any other way, this may be possible, but this is not possible now. Given that violations are being repeated, particularly by my colleague Tank, and since I, as President and my colleague Simonovic, as Vice-President, am exemplary in conducting all meetings of the National Assembly, without any violation of the Rules of Procedure, without prejudice to the debates of Members and so on, my procedural proposal is that the list for the conduct of the meetings of the National Assembly, which is always set out in advance where we have a time-bound management plan, should be amended to assign the meeting to Mr Simonovic, me and you, Mr President. Until Mr Tanko has changed his practice of violating the Rules of Procedure, he will simply refuse to hold the meetings of the National Assembly. That's my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u5	Dear colleague, you know we can't take the vice president's authority. Today, colleague Tanko is a coalition-type vice-president, and after this same modus operandi, I could then also take the opportunity to serve as Vice-President to the opposition Vice-President, which I do not have. I hope that we too will not go so far as to give any President of the National Assembly these powers. All the Vice-Presidents have, I'll say, their powers and you are independent of the Rules of Procedure in the conduct of the meetings. As for yesterday's event, however, I have already announced that we will also discuss the use of procedural procedures at the consultation. Comrade Duck, this is now, I find the third procedural. I hope it's not about the same thing. You've got procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. President, I haven't opened my mouth yet. I don't know if you have any supernatural abilities The Rules of Procedure apply to everyone, including the guests in the house. [[…]] Yesterday's matter began essentially with the fact that the Foreign Minister, who is one of the most arrogant in this government, began commenting on another Member's questions, a statement by a third Member. The fact that this government and this coalition, every time it opens its mouth, increasingly discredits itself, wouldn't be a problem. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u7	What's your procedural, buddy Duck?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u8	The problem is that you discredit and depreciate constitutional parliamentary democracy as essentially transforming this national assembly into a kind of cloak and us into a home.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u9	Comrade Duck, how's your procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u10	I have three minutes to define him.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u11	No, you don't have three minutes. You've got [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u12	Yes, I do! Dear Mr Zorčič, my procedural proposal is that after the 80th article, you stop the meeting because you are unable to lead it, and you take the time and you finally read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u13	Comrade Runk, a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u14	You're not a commentator, you're in charge of the session! If you want to be a commentator, go, I don't know, get a new TV job. You are in charge of the meeting and the Rules of Procedure apply to all!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u15	Comrade Runka, a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u16	My procedural proposal is to take into account the Member's procedural proposal, to have three minutes to explain, and to take account of the rules of procedure for all to be followed by ministers and ministers, because, in particular, ministers act in the sense of "no one can do anything". This is essentially such a derogation from parliamentaryism as has been taking place in the last 10 weeks, it is – I will paraphrase Pojbič – downhill. [[…]] You're the first to be against it, and I hope you'll pay your attention to it at the council tomorrow. Including, for example, the rules of procedure of the Commission for the supervision of public finances in Article 30, which states that those invited by the Government must answer questions, not afen. Yes! You are the first among the same, and you must ensure that the National Assembly is a constitutional parliamentary democracy, where people are not offended – Article 14 of the Constitution, and some Article of the Constitution which speaks of dignity – and that the Rules of Procedure are in force. That's my procedural proposal. What I've been looking at for the past few weeks works as if three of the four presidents never had a bit of a constitutional nose in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u17	Comrade Duck, I think we're all very tolerant of you, listening to a variety of insults and greatly tolerate the abuse of the rules of procedure. Since the right to request a procedural question is the right question regarding the application of the Rules of Procedure, it is not absolute. This right has its purpose, its content and it is right for each president, whether it is the President or the Vice-President, at a plenary session, to ask the person who proposes it, what application of the Rules of Procedure is the subject of a discussion or of a violation. But it happens, and I have to say this, and this is more than evident today after this introduction, that you are constantly applying this possibility to say something, that you may be criticising someone and that in the end you will flatly conclude that there was some kind of violation that was obviously not committed. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if I have told you that we will discuss this outside this session, I hope you will take this into account. Procedurally, Comrade Ivanus first. There's still a whole bunch of people registered.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u18	I'll be very brief. Given that we've been talking or we're all acting under masks lately, my proposal is that whoever's officially performing or speaking simply withdraws the mask. For we see that the ministers who answered yesterday spoke so quietly and then this mask – I simply didn't hear half of what they were saying. To ease this epidemic a little here in Parliament, at least the one performing is speaking without a mask. That's my procedural proposal, if there's anything I can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u19	Comrade Ivanuš, I agree with you, but we checked with the National Institute of Public Health to see if we could take these masks off, and they told us to wear them. My colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you. My procedural proposal is that, in particular, you, the President of the National Assembly, first among the same, respect the rules of procedure and, above all, do not always reach out to anyone who speaks. You make a procedural comment and you talk in between, so that people can't even hear themselves, let alone hear them from someone else. I'm really not gonna let that happen. Let us remember that it was the current Vice-President, Mr Tanko, who, at the time that you had the largest party in this House, abused hours and hours and did not happen to him because there was a democracy, and he was a former member of your party at your seat and he was the President of the National Assembly. These were completely different times than they are now. We need to agree whether we live in parliamentary democracy – because then the constitution, law and rules of procedure must apply, for all of the same – or whether we declare that you have a majority of what you want, a unilateral party system or even a kingdom. But then we'll know how to behave differently. As long as it's not like that, I ask you to also allow the opposition's voice that we have the right to say. The way ministers behave in this government is totally unworthy and is an evaluation of all that Members would expect of them. All right, because of the cobbler we've been avoiding, wait till I finish, don't touch my word! [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u21	Colleague Tomic, how's your procedure? I won't wait because I have the right to cut you down if you're abusing the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u22	My procedural proposal was that you do not reach out to a word between procedural and I insist on it! I would like to point out that yesterday Mr Vasko Simoniti stood up and left during the question of the MP.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u23	My colleague, what's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u24	My procedural proposition is that you don't touch my word, and no one.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u25	By the rules of procedure, I have the right to cut into your words.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u26	I have three minutes to make my procedural proposal! It's unworthy how you run this session, you're not capable of running it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u27	No, no, no. It's unworthy of you to use procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u28	And you have destroyed, you have ruined the respect of this House, which should be taken care of.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u29	No, colleague Tomic, you're ruining it. You're ruining it. What kind of procedural proposal do you have?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u30	My procedural proposal was clear at the outset: don't touch Members in the motions and in the words, let us say our things to the end. Okay? That's my procedural proposal. Thanks for the silence for a second.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u31	Colleague Tomić, third paragraph of Article 75, states in the second sentence: “The speaker may reach out to the chairman only to remind him of his turn.” And I have this right to conclude that the business proposal does not go in the direction of the business proposal, but that the Members are debated. So when you have a chance to debate, you have the whole word, no one jumps into your word, if it's too loud, let's just point that out. But business is about something else. My friend Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u32	Dear President! Such a response between the procedural ones is, in fact, entirely expected. I hope that you will resolve these management problems and dilemmas in college, but this will happen again every time we don't take these things into account. The truth is somewhere in between. We know the pressure on the one hand, and on the other hand, it always brings that result. More important to me is how we perform in the National Assembly. With regard to your explanation on the question or initiative of colleague Jani around these masks and the NIJS message, I must say that I do not know if I will still respect him. For the first time, because I think it's silly, but it's literally ridiculous that five people can sit at a restaurant at a table without masks, drink and eat and talk, and nothing can happen to them, but here in the big room yesterday there was literally a comedy, when the chairman was sitting on that side, the questioner on that side, there was a 50-foot difference between the two of them, and they were both wearing a mask, and there was an empty hall, so that they wouldn't infect anyone. I'm sorry. I'm not gonna make a fool of myself in this room if he's working from other people, okay, but not in here. Let them live a little bit and think a little bit. If you've declared the end of the epidemic in the government, then you can't say it's the end of the epidemic, but we'll have a little more fun. I think it is time for you, the President, in the sense and spirit you represent, to take the first of the same, too, because in the final stage we decide how order will run in this space, and not NIJZ. I'm not wearing this anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u33	My friend Jani, I'll take care of the profession. Anyone else procedural? I'm also a colleague of Mursich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you very much. First of all, the President, I would like to ask you to take into account the order of application for procedural motions. I must say that this is exactly what both Jani, colleague Jani Ivanuš and colleague Möderndorfer have pointed out.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u35	I'm asking you very nicely that we don't cheat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u36	Can I finish or can't I? That's the way it is. We wear masks in the National Assembly, but not at all, even at the time of the outbreak – as is the case with colleague Jelinčič. They wrote to me yesterday whether we're crazy who wear masks or if one of them is covered by other vats. Another time. Here we all sit at a social distance, with Desus, I see you're already sitting together. Tell me if the rules still apply or not. Then it's best to sit in the bench, just like we sat, and keep working as we need to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u37	Please. I think I've already answered. My friend, Ducky. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] My friend Runk's first.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u38	Can I have one minute so no one interrupts me?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u39	A little silence. He's still got his buddy Runk on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u40	There's usually a house order in the house. In the National Assembly, this House Rules are referred to as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which shall apply to all those who participate in meetings, regular, extraordinary, committees, commissions. I've troubled the work of ministers and ministers. My proposal has been very clearly defined, President, to finally apply the Rules of Procedure. It's true, I've said many times, most of the bad things, the abuses I've learned in six years, I've learned from SDS. At the time when that meeting was the rescue of Private Janez, Mr Tanko - I stopped counting them on the 29th procedural issue - of the 29 procedural questions 25 was acquittalally abused, and of the other four, I might have looked through. It's already a problem that such a man is even vice-president of the National Assembly. And there's something to the end, presidents. Previously, you said "stamping". If I'm not something, I'm not a quitter. I usually came to the D.C. before 7:00, and this morning at 5:00 this morning, I was reading a magnetogram of yesterday's event, and it was an eccentric abuse. Even more, the President of the National Assembly in the midst of a coup, several Members did not even get the chance to ask a question, including a fellow German. It seems to me that this is so eloquent that we should stop this meeting, call an urgent meeting this morning and actually make a deal. Because if this goes on, then we can leave the opposition, I don't know, in front of the National Assembly, and we'll be monitoring the meeting from there. You obviously don't need us because you're now, uh, mountains would move, but basically you are, here I'm going to allow this, one piece of shit that destroys democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u41	My friend Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Procedural. First, I agree with my colleagues. This masquerade we're going to at the National Assembly is ridiculous. While people can sit in pubs together, there is no problem, and in churches they pray, but we need to be at a distance here, I don't know how many meters of this mask to create some state of emergency in the country. President, I'd like to make a procedural suggestion that you really think about how and what to do next. Another thing about breaking the rules of procedure. What happened to my colleague Matjaž the German yesterday is unacceptable. I'm sorry. It's really unacceptable. If you want to announce an archevist dictatorship, announce it, and that's because you're working in this direction. Parliament is gone, the opposition no longer has any tools, because the majority of us are being voted out, and all those instruments that are intended for the operation of the opposition have been eliminated. So we obviously have only one option left before Parliament and not in Parliament anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u43	What's your procedural proposal? [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no. Colleagues, look. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u44	My procedural proposal is that the President and Vice-Presidents stick to the rules of procedure and that you do not create a dictatorship within this democratic institution. But if you don't tell me how you live, then you're gonna say "Janchevism and dot."
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u45	Ah, give it a rest, come on. Okay, thank you very much. Colleagues, the bill amending the Law on the Triglav National Park – I think a lot of people are expecting it, I hope we'll process it today [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] My friend George, let me read this first. I also ask that when I move to the point, you do not scream procedurally, because I will give each of you a procedural one when I stop at the end of the sentence. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law amending the law on Tribal National Park within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of five Members with the first-signed France Kramar. Before I give my colleague Kramar a word for further explanation, even my colleague Jurš, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u46	President, thank you. As much impatience as the government in this hall and in all the halls where there are parental working bodies, I have not experienced it in 12 years. Dear colleagues, tighten up the hand brake. Thank you. That's mine. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u47	Colleagues and colleagues, I hope today that there have been enough of these procedural issues in noodles. I give the floor to my proposalr's representative, colleague Franc Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For me personally, this law is one of the biggest problems of Upper Gorenjska and Primorska, so let me at least tell you what I propose or what we propose to amend this law. The Triglav National Park Act has a long beard. The Seven Lakes area was regulated by law in 1926, and then, in 1981, there was the adoption of a law that affected settlements in Gorenjska and Primorska. Then, in 2010, they recast the law, redefine it, give it new bans. All the prohibitions in the Triglav National Park Act are 78 and these prohibitions are also living and facing development problems. In the 2010 Act, Section 11 of the Act was defined, where subsidies were also identified to park municipalities, but in all the years until now, no one has realized this, on the contrary, every year, the law has not been enforced again and again. The problem with this Article 11 is that it provides for 80 % of local community investments to be allocated to development in park municipalities. This is practically impossible to realise because these investments vary year after year, require different levels of funding and so far it has not been possible to achieve this. We have therefore prepared an amendment to this Article 11. We focused on the Ljubljana Capital Act, which has this funding well regulated and has proposed three times less resources for the implementation of not only the ban, but also the advantages. Because we are constantly convinced that Triglav National Park is a priority for the living — of course, that is not the case. With the Triglav National Park Act, the country nationalised this area of the eight municipalities, determined what they could and could not do to landowners. I mentioned earlier that 78 of the prohibitions affecting the lives of the living population in this area are, and it is therefore right to move from words to actions and to adopt such a law or such a change and supplement that will actually enable the local population to develop in a comparable way to other places that do not have prohibitions. Ambassadors and Members, I urge you to support this, because this is the only way in which the Triglav National Park law will give the local population priority. Then we can say that living in a national park is an advantage. For the time being, this has proved to be a bar bar in the development of the local population in all these years, and I think it is right that this injustice should be corrected and that you are helping to really change this law by making it functional and bringing added value to local communities. There are eight of them, part of them lying in Primorska, part of them lying in Gorenjska, but I still think they need to be listened to and worked to match them with the inhabitants of other Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u49	The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Pod oblast.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, President. Summary of the report to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Triglav National Park, summary procedure. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 17th session. 5. 2020 was considered by the National Park of Triglav as a working body by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed France Kramar submitted to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. On behalf of the proposer, Mr Kramar explained that the Law on Triglav National Park in Article 11 provided for a method of providing incentives and financing for projects, investments and activities in the park area. Due to the adverse effects of the limitations of the law, the method and the level of funds for park local communities is clearly defined, i.e. 80% of the budget value of the project. He pointed out that, despite the expectations of the municipalities for the park area, the current legislation did not produce results because it was not possible to foresee the implementation of projects in the area of park local communities and, consequently, it was not possible to anticipate the level of resources in the state budget for the coming period. Consequently, the amendment to Article 11 provides that 0.2% of the total income in the Republic of Slovenia would be allocated to co-financing projects, investments and activities in the local community within the Triglav National Park. This share would be distributed annually to parking local communities according to the shares determined by the mayors by the agreement on the basis of the municipality area, the number of inhabitants and the allocated house numbers within the park. This would enable the Government to anticipate in advance each year the amount of resources needed to co-finance the tasks and projects of the park local communities. This would help to speed up the implementation of conservation measures, to improve the quality of life of the inhabitants there and to improve the management of the park. Following the discussion, support was expressed by the majority of the parliamentary groups for the draft law, as it provides financing to park local communities for an area where a number of prohibitions and restrictions apply and the implementation of tasks under the current law is hampered. They pointed out that they welcomed the agreement between the mayors of municipalities on the allocation of the planned financial resources and that they were confident that the municipalities would spend these funds on projects that would contribute to development while maintaining the landscape in the park area. They considered that the amendment introduced by the proposed law would remove or at least limit the restrictions and prohibitions faced by the inhabitants of the park area. This would help improve the quality of life of the inhabitants there, help park local communities to develop tourism there and, last but not least, the Triglav National Park as a whole. The Left Group, however, stressed that they do not support the bill because it brings two fundamental changes, namely non-location and flat-rate remittances from the state budget of 0.2% of the annual income. The legislation now in force provides for transparency and sufficient co-financing of any project investment that complies with this law and is prepared in an appropriate manner. The current law clearly provides that the state co-finances specific projects, investments and activities of 80% of the budget value of the project. They stressed that they do not object to the fact that municipalities caring for the Triglav National Park receive more funding, but do not support the proposed co-financing method in the form of flat-rate remittances from the State budget. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendment of the SAB Group to Article 1 and, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted both articles of the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u51	I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dr. Metka Gorišek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u52	Dear, good-bye! The Ministry of Environment and Space, as well as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, could only point out at the outset that we were somehow not the most excited about the proposal without an action programme which will earmark funds for use. However, they are already in the process of preparing an action plan for the use of funds or for investments and co-financing and eligibility criteria, also in accordance with the Regulation on criteria and criteria for the promotion and co-financing of projects, investments and activities in the Triglav National Park. Indeed, this action plan would prevent flat-rate spending, resources for development projects and those that contribute to the quality of the population of the national park would in fact be intended for the quality of the population. It is about providing adequate municipal equipment, other economic public infrastructures, supporting over-standard development of social activities and the transstandard implementation of public and local services, maintaining and opening jobs and, of course, promoting craft, cultural and environmentally sound economic activities and social services. The draft action plan has already been submitted for review to the Ministry of Environment and Space. The Ministry expects comments by 1. 6. 2020, then the coordination phase followed, and also after the Minister's approval. In line with this Action Plan, we expect that these funds will then also be used, which are allocated to this Law on the Triglav National Park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u53	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Comrade Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, President. Today we are amending the Law on Triglav National Park. As early as 1981, the Triglav National Park was enacted in a law that is now being amended. With the adoption of the proposed law, we will support in the National Assembly the solutions relating to the determination of the percentage of income in the Republic of Slovenia, which will be determined each year for the co-financing of projects, investments and activities in park local communities in the national park. This share is expected to amount to 0,20 % of annual income and the amount is to be divided into park local communities. In accordance with the shares agreed between the mayors, the applicants also state them in the table. The explanation of the Law amending the Law on Triglav National Park states that the amendment to Article 11 would constitute a de-de-barcation of both state and local administrations, as the solution so far provides for a type of mutual coordination and planning, which has proved to be a bad solution since the provision has not been implemented in practice so far. In the Desus Group, we support all the solutions that go in the direction of debirocratisation. We are aware that there will be financial consequences because 0.20% of the national budget will have to be allocated to municipalities in Triglav National Park. This means that in the State budget, income from income will be reduced by EUR 3.8 million and, of course, the municipalities in Triglav National Park will be increased by this amount. Regarding the solutions proposed, it must be said that in the Desus Group we support solutions that will increase funding for co-financing projects, investments and other activities in park local communities in the national park. Triglav National Park is the only national park in the Republic of Slovenia. For all of this, the Desus Group will support the Law amending the Law on the Triglav National Park and the Amendment, which take into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u55	The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have the floor. Comrade Dushan Shisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u56	Dear President, as my colleague Jani Ivanuš suggested, I must tell you that I did not understand the first two speakers, and I will take off my mask myself, and I will speak without a mask in the future when I have the debate. I hope there's not too much error. And now to the point. Triglav National Park is the only national park in Slovenia, with a special nature conservation regime that is stricter than in landscape parks. The Union extended the status of the Julian Alps as a biosphere reserve until 2023. Article 11, paragraph 4, should only be amended in the draft law. The current law provides for co-financing of 80% of the budget value or investment of the resources needed to carry out the activities. At this point, many might ask what is the reason why the provisions in all these years have never been implemented despite the expectations of local communities in this area. It is logical that the article was not effective and has not been implemented in practice if there was no adequate coordination, negotiation, planning between entities in public and local administrations, as a person would normally expect. So we hope it will be different now. The amendment will definitely ensure the use of funds for projects and measures to achieve the objectives of the national park, which means that the municipalities in the park will have to provide 0.20% of the annual income from the state budget, as revenue will be reduced by 3.8 million euros in the national budget and increased by this amount to the municipalities in the tourist park. Such a solution will show the transparency of regulation, as it also provides for control over the purposeful use of funds, where the provisions of this law and the law governing the financing of municipalities will apply. We will support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group because it will undoubtedly facilitate the daily lives of the inhabitants and residents there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u57	My colleagues and colleagues, as far as the mask is concerned, I've told you why it's such a decision that we just have to wear it. The fact is that we regularly consult with the Institute of Public Health and that this is the guide so far. I do not think it is good to give, if we have instructions from a national institution, a different example. There was a speech when we were overplaying the possibilities, how to hold the meeting, even that if we were more together, we even carried visions, as recommended by the NIJ. Now that I have heard what recommendations we have received, I cannot help but recall all others who are employed, such as hairdressers, who must wear masks and similar protective equipment. In short, I would like to appeal to you that if we are not exemplary citizens and citizens in taking into account what the profession advises us, then we are not surprised if some of the rules or some of the recommendations made by the state authorities are briefly overlooked. So I appeal to you that as long as such rules are in place, let us respect them, be ourselves a model. But I hope we can get these masks off as soon as possible. The following is your colleague, Daniel Krivec, for the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! The Novela Law on Triglav National Park interferes with only one small piece, which speaks of providing funds in the same way as in other laws governing a particular area, say the capital of Ljubljana. A few facts you've already mentioned. The law on TNP had already been adopted in the past; by 2010, there was a law adopted in the 1980s that imposed only restrictions on the area, without any possibility of any development incentives. Thus, in the late 1990 ’ s, an initiative was also encouraged in these areas, which required that certain congregations or even the area be removed from the Triglav National Park. At that time, there was also an initiative in the National Assembly to change the law, and in 2010 a new law was practically adopted unanimously in the National Assembly, which incorporated several articles in the law that allow development incentives to these areas. Regrettably, nothing has been implemented in this title in recent years, so they have once again called for this law to be repealed or to be implemented in some way, which will also provide some incentives for these areas, which are subject to many prohibitions. On this basis, this proposal was also made by a colleague of Kramar in the procedure. It is a matter of eliminating the possibility of some arbitration and of deciding whether or not some means will be earmarked for this purpose. The law clearly states that 0.2% of income is earmarked for development needs in park municipalities and for the purposes of the park as such. I think that this solution is certainly good, as I said, already used in other laws. Given that we have the only national park, this is the Triglav National Park, it is right to take care of it also in this developmental sense and to allow those who have been prevented by law from doing some normal business in this area to be given some credit. As I said, the law provided for this, but in those articles that speak of incentives, it has never been implemented. Interestingly, all other restrictions and prohibitions imposed by the Public Service as such, which are also enshrined in the law, are being implemented at all times. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we certainly support both the two amendments, which are only nominally correcting this bill and also summarizing all the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Services, as well as this amendment in its entirety, because we believe that this also solves the dilemma for years in advance so that no ad person can decide whether any means will be intended to take place in the Park or also promote these development opportunities, options which, of course, must be aligned with the National Park. We know that a number of documents imposing management on the park are the management plan, as well as the investment plan, or this action plan, in which municipalities have to propose their projects co-financed by these funds. So it is not some direct grant, but rather a controlled use of resources, which must be defined in previous local-level documents in plans adopted by the municipalities when the budgets are drawn up, and they must also be included in the action plan endorsed by the Triglav National Park. This also ensures correctness or targeted consumption for those needs that the park actually determines. We will support this law in our House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u59	The text is given by the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, a colleague of Igor Pecek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the case of development and infrastructure projects in geographically protected areas with which we intervene in nature and our natural wealth or in these areas, by regulating the environment, we should be prudent, careful and responsible in the first place. We should put environmental concerns and conservation at the forefront, and ultimately concern about the quality of the stay of the local population and visitors. This aspect is increasingly reflected in the warnings not only of NGOs in recent years and weeks, but also of other citizens and citizens who care about our Slovenia. In order to be able to take responsible care of the development of geographically protected areas in Slovenia and to meet the standards by which nature interventions would be carefully and responsibly planned and not too burdensome for natural resources, sufficient support, including financial support, is needed for the design of infrastructure and other projects. Of course, one of the most significant natural areas in Slovenia is the Triglav National Park. This geographically protected area covers as much as 4% of Slovenia's surface area, and it should also be in the interest of all of us to manage it carefully, economically and to some extent conservatively. The municipalities within the Triglav National Park are certainly doing a good job, but it is all too often caught up in money, when in the end nature and the local population are often short-lived. It is understandable and, at the same time, encouraging that tourism is the dominant economic sector in the Triglav National Park area. That is why various infrastructure projects, such as the so-called green ecotourism, are of exceptional importance. At the same time, it is certainly not possible to forget all the investments necessary to develop the local environment and the quality of living of the local population. Investment in tourism and investment in the local environment and the population must go hand in hand if we are to provide a geographically protected area such as Triglav National Park, Development and Perspective. As said, today's amendment to the law provides for this – local communities in the Triglav National Park area will be provided with sufficient funding to carry out all activities with which the local population can live well and at the same time ensure the quality development of tourism. In spite of the legal basis that, while the Local Infrastructure Investment Co-financing Facility is defined by the Community Financing Act, there are, in our opinion, sufficient reasons for establishing an additional source of funding for local communities in the geographically protected area of Triglav National Park, with a certain percentage of annual income. Finally, we would like to make a well-meaning appeal to all decision makers in local communities at the Marjan Šarca Group of Ambassadors to ensure that infrastructure and other projects, with the transparent and dedicated use of the additional resources that we are creating today's legal basis, promote the implementation of environmental cases of activities and social services that contribute to the preservation of the nature, natural resources, population and supply of the people of the national park. We will support the new law along with the two amendments in the List of Marjan Šarc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats, a colleague of Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Of course, it's a natural heritage. The Triglav National Park is a pride in our eyes, and in particular the eight municipalities and their mayors, who have been very involved in the last period of this mandate with the help of Member Kramar, Commissioner Krivec, and also the Social Democrats with me personally, have helped us today in Parliament to face the challenges of the development and perspective of this area, which, despite the natural order, has been limited in a developmental sense. We wanted to help the Triglav National Park through local action with the first signed initiative, the Mayor of the municipality of Bovec, Mr Walter Mlekuž, who is also a member of the Social Democrats. We support the amendment of the law, of course, in the hope that the Triglav National Park will not only be a crossroads between the Alps and the Adriatic in the future, but not only the intersection of Gorenjska and Primorska, which is connected by the Bohinian route or the Way of Peace, but also the actual opportunity for perspective, an opportunity for development, but not, as has already been said, an opportunity for restrictions. The Social Democrats will be supporting the amendment of the law and both amendments will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u63	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of Matey Udovč.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The legislative changes we make in our legal order must always be geared towards achieving better, positive changes and effects for all citizens and the common good. We must respect the rights and wishes of individuals, while at the same time ensuring the protection of the environment and the development of the society as a whole. This new Law on the Triglav National Park, which we confirm today, is a step in this direction. Triglav National Park is the only national park in Slovenia and a uniquely protected area in the Alpine world, which is crucial and extremely important for all Slovenia. It covers 880 square kilometres of the pristine alpine world and accounts for 4% of the total surface area of Slovenia. It is the first biosphere area in Slovenia, which is characterised by maintaining a balance between people and nature, between biodiversity and sustainable development to preserve cultural values. We must all be well aware of the mission of the Triglav National Park, which is based on professional and implementing support for nature and development conservation decisions, while opening up a space for dialogue between different interests and activities for the protection of the area. I myself have been a longtime mountain guide and a mountain lover, whom I have regularly visited since I was young. That is why I am even more aware that the proposed amendment to the law, which is now being confirmed, is good and very necessary. The Triglav National Park Act was passed in 1981, and the adoption of the then law brought about a nationalized area of the Triglav National Park. For landowners who lived inside the park, this meant that they did not have the right to manage their property, and as a result, their lives in the area changed considerably. It was significantly different from living outside this park area. For many of the changes that have made their lives and their development have brought about for the inhabitants and local communities. In 2010, a revised law was adopted to provide for reimbursement of funds to park communities due to these restrictions. However, it has proved that no funding has ever been allocated to address these problems, which means that the law has not been implemented in practice. However, the proposed amendment to the law before us today changes the way in which incentives and funding for projects, investments and activities in the Triglav National Park area are allocated. This area needs to be addressed to a large extent in the future by the parking local communities. The proposed amendment represents a significantly faster implementation of conservation measures and of the national park. On the other hand, it enables and provides local people with better economic and social conditions for the sustainable development of this activity. This will enable, encourage and further support the preservation of the population and ensure quality of living and working environment. That our thinking and the proposed solutions are a step in the right direction also confirms the fact that the mayors of the park communities have unanimously supported and welcomed the proposed legislative change as proper, good and effective. In the Modern Centre Party, we assess that the proposed amendment introduced by the new Law on the Triglav National Park is good, and that it will have positive effects on the implementation of development guidelines in the National Park. Above all, the involvement of the local community and the population in active management and life in the national park is expected to be greater. At the same time, it will help to develop ecological tourism, green tourism and nature conservation. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will be pleased to support the proposed legal solution because we have always advocated such an arrangement. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u65	The word is given by the Group of the Members of the Left, colleague Primož Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The Law amending the Law on Triglav National Park, as originally proposed, amended the existing arrangements for co-financing of projects, investments and activities of municipalities in the TNP by the State in a way that would take a lump sum out of the State budget and divide it into municipalities in Triglav National Park. There, the congregations would be free of these resources. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service also pointed out the contradiction of such a change, which would allow municipalities to spend state money unintentionally. In addition, the law was proposed by the mayor, in which the Court of Auditors found only six months ago a type of irregularities in the preparation of the budget and its implementation [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u67	Comrade Reich, calm down. Let him say we're in position.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u68	In the preparation of the budget and its execution, sale and delivery, in addition to the basic salaries of public servants, public procurement, investment expenditure, current transfers and debt, and in addition to the irregularities in the ownership of municipal property, which went to the benefit of his family. Because of all the above, we have adopted this law in Levica with a great deal of scepticism on the good intentions of the proposer to provide municipalities in Triglav National Park with sufficient resources for development, in line with the limitations imposed by the park area [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u69	A little peace! Buddy Reich, can we just calm down for a second?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u70	An amendment adopted at a meeting of the parent’s working body provided a minimum guardian regarding the purposeful use of funds to be received by the congregations after the adoption of this law. The amendment that we will discuss today also establishes control over the deliberate use of these funds, which significantly improves the initial proposal for a law. The municipalities will only be able to spend the funds received from the State budget for the purposes of the second, seventh, eighth, ninth and seventeenth paragraphs of Article 10 of the Law on the Triglav National Park. In this part of the arrangement basically remains the same as it is now. This is about investment projects and activities to be defined in the action plan to be prepared by the Public Institute of Triglav National Park. As has already been said, the amendment that has been tabled for the regular meeting of the National Assembly also provides adequate supervision over the use of these funds. We will support the amendment's proposal in the left hand side. However, two fundamental differences remain between the proposed and the current arrangements. The first is that the share of State co-financing of projects, investments and activities is no longer limited. The current limit is 80% by the state. This arrangement is in force because, although it is an area of national park, which is in the interest of the State, it is also in the interest of projects which are primarily in the interest of the local community, so it is logical that it also contributes to their implementation, since, after all, it is the municipal infrastructure of these municipalities. Another difference is that the congregations will now receive the money in advance and will then have it at their disposal within the limits that will still be imposed by law after the amendments. In Levica, however, we believe that there would be a better arrangement here where individual projects of the municipality are being negotiated with the department. After all, it is state money, and the only logical thing is that the state is setting priorities here and how, where and when this money will be spent. We understand that the current regime has not been implemented, but the problem is not in law, the problem is implementation, and the problem is that the executive side of these projects was not politically willing. And if political will could not be affected by those who were or are still in the ruling coalition, then we can have even less influence in Levica. That is why we have decided that, after the amendment adopted at the Committee's meeting, and if the amendment we have today on the table is adopted, even though we still see in some points the shortcomings of the proposed regulation compared to the current one, we will not oppose the adoption of the law. We believe that these two amendments will ensure the purposeful use of state money and sufficient control to ensure that it is truly spent for legal purposes, allowing for the development that will benefit all people living in Triglav National Park and will benefit from the preservation of the nature and other beauties most marked by the Triglav National Park. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u71	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, colleague Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Law on Triglav National Park in Article 11 provides for a way to allocate incentives and funding for projects, investments and activities of municipalities in the area of the only national park in Slovenia, Triglav National Park. According to the law in force, additional funds amounting to 80 % of the budget for projects or investments or for activities in the Triglav National Park were allocated to park municipalities. In practice, this provision poses a number of administrative obstacles, since the municipality cannot anticipate the implementation of projects in advance, and therefore the budgetary planning of both local communities and countries is difficult. However, the amendment provides for a fixed amount belonging to municipalities in the Triglav National Park area of 0,20 % of annual income. The amount shall be divided among the eight park municipalities according to the signed agreement between the mayors of the municipalities located in the Triglav National Park. This key has already been agreed upon by the municipalities' mayors, depending on the municipality's size, population and buildings within the Triglav National Park. The bill also follows the solutions of the Main City Act, where the state of Ljubljana devotes between 0.6% and 0.8% of the collected income each year to carry out the tasks of the capital. By amending the law, municipalities in the Triglav National Park area would also be provided with a stable and pre-arranged source of funding. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill. We are aware that Slovenia has only one national park, this is the Triglav National Park, which certainly deserves to be treated in the way defined in this bill. Thus, the municipalities within the Triglav National Park will be allocated financial resources and we are confident that they will be devoted very carefully to development, to nature protection, to soft mobility, to the way buildings are built, as set out by the cultural heritage and the park community for infrastructure, to the arrangement of the Vrsič crossing and so on. We need to know that life in the national park is more expensive than outside it, as it is subject to a number of restrictions and prohibitions, and this represents very high costs for park municipalities, which are responsible for the conservation of natural values and at the same time nature conservationists in the area. We are confident that the more financial resources provided by the bill will also enable the people there to live a better life. Finally, a stable and pre-arranged source of funding will help park municipalities develop tourism there and the Triglav National Park as a whole. As has already been said, Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u73	The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, a colleague of mags. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Today we are considering the law that was tabled in the legislative procedure by the Members of the SAB Group with the first-signed France Kramar. This is a modest complement, as only one article is being amended, which is of great importance to the communities in the park area and their inhabitants. The Triglav National Park is the only national park in Slovenia where we Slovenians are very proud. Many Slovenians, as well as foreigners, are happy to go to these places on vacations, vacations, or even vacations. This is a protected area, which is primarily established to preserve nature, but the Triglav National Park area is also quite populated as it is also located in the area of eight local communities. It is also essential for the people living in this protected area to have sustainable development, as set out in the Law on the Triglav National Park. The appropriate quality of life of the inhabitants of the national park can be ensured through the development of social, cultural and economic activities. In order to preserve the nature and endangered animal and plant species, a number of prohibitions and restrictions apply in this area. As a result, management is extremely difficult in such an environment, which also affects the quality of life of the inhabitants there, and this brings additional costs to local communities. At a meeting of the parent working body, where a second consideration of the proposal took place, the current mayors of park municipalities also highlighted the fact that life inside the park is much more expensive than outside it. The people of Triglav National Park have been pointing out for several years that co-existing with the National Park has been very difficult. The most common obstacles are mainly bureaucratic and financial constraints, as there are 38 restrictions and prohibitions in the park area. In 2010, a new law was adopted setting development guidelines to achieve the objectives of environmental protection and sustainable development in the park area. Article 11 of this Act provides that development guidelines are to a certain extent financed by the State, namely that projects, investments and activities carried out by park local communities directly related to development orientations shall be provided to local communities with additional funding from the State budget, with an estimated 80 % of the budget value of the project. This legal provision has not been implemented for 10 years. This is also pointed out by mayors who face a lack of resources, which prevents them from developing the area and further burdens them with protection of nature and cultural heritage. The proposed arrangement will allow for the normal development of our only national park. The local park communities will receive a total of around €4 million each year, which can be earmarked for development guidance. All municipalities will have a total of 0.2% of their income, and these funds will then be allocated to each other according to the shares agreed upon by the mayors. Such a proposal follows the regulation laid down in the Main City Act. For each financial year, the municipality of Ljubljana accounts for between 0,6 % and 0,8 % of the income for the performance of the tasks under the responsibility of the state authorities and the municipal authorities. Like Ljubljana as the capital, the Triglav National Park has a special significance for the country, since it is undoubtedly unique. In the SAB Group, after first-hand experience, we are aware of the difficulties that park communities face as a result of the current regulation. We are pleased that, after many years of perseverance, the mayors of the park municipalities are finally ahead of us today. The implementation of the bill will be a major milestone for the area of our only national park, as it will also allow the inhabitants there to promote trade, culture and environment-friendly economic activities. We want the only national park in Slovenia to allow accelerated development and make life easier for the local population. It is a local community in which tourism flourishes and by which they know us globally. With the revenues from tourism, the state budget is also rich, so together we are obliged to ensure that we preserve the places that are proud of us. In the SAB Group we will support both the amendment and the proposed amendment to the Triglav National Park Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u75	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SAB Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the list. The motioner will have his word. First of all, he has the floor to propose. A friend of Kramar's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you very much, President. I must respond to the position of the Left Party. I think they went to a very personal level. The Court of Auditors’ finding irregularities in Bohinj is true, but they were eliminated in the final report, all of them. As far as I'm concerned, this is my wife's personal business, and it wasn't any kind of estrangement, it was a legal alienation, with which we paid fairly everything that had to be paid, in addition to admitting to us a 30-year-old, 40-year-old job in this place, investing in our pockets. And this thing is legally clean. If you don't believe me, look at the prosecution in Kranj, where the prosecution was filed. We survived that criminal complaint. So, business has been clean, I've already told you that on the board, and I don't allow you to go on a topic that's state-owned, local, to the level of me personally. That's not democratic. You're in the role of judge, and I'm not going to let that happen. If you go too far, I'll use legal remedies to protect my good name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you very much. My friend Perič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! I'll say nothing new. What we have heard today in the introduction to the session itself, I do not know what kind of light he is putting us in. Because in fact what we are listening to at this point is just a repetition of what we have put through already on the committee itself, and attacks at the personal level are some flat-rate assessments of how the mayors are going to do, how the mayors are going to do their homework, how they are going to spend all of these resources at home. But every time we do our best, even when we have a good, quality prepared story on the table, a solution that will benefit people and even nature, we find something that is not right. But if we don't find it, then let's make it up a little bit, just to create some negative atmosphere. The Triglav National Park is, as we all know, of all of us, so I think it is also appropriate that this certain percentage of income is intended for these eight local communities to manage, to further raise some level of supply in this area, which will benefit not only people living outside the tourist season, even when it is not quite easy, but also tourists, that this area will be so much more interesting and also communal or otherwise equipped. That is why I think it is very good that we support this proposal. And as far as I've been listening, despite the many criticisms, there will be no one here who hopes to press the key against, which in itself says – how very honest we are in our deliberations. I would also like to reiterate and commend all eight mayors and municipal councils who managed to get on a common denominator and find some kind of agreement. Because if we have little practical experience from local communities, we know how difficult it is to put two mayors or two municipalities on a common denominator, eight of them. Not even when it comes to money. So this case needs to be set as an example and supported as much as possible in the future. There are even more cases, such as the Triglav National Park. Certain questions are also raised regarding investments in economic public infrastructure. After all, if I draw an analogy, four coastal municipalities must finance the construction of an infrastructure somewhere between land and sea from their own resources, i.e. by means of citizens and citizens. So, once in a while, I anticipate and suggest that this issue also opens up and that certain solutions be found, after all, from the point of view of the cadastral congregation of the sea as well as because it is now one of the cadastral municipalities itself. But that's one question for another time. There are, of course, a number of similar topics. If I go back to Triglav National Park. The mayors will not be able to use these funds at home, as we have heard from some on the committee itself, because they also have a regulation that will give them very clearly how and in what way. Of course, all the funds they receive must be spent in accordance with the rules applicable to budgeting and then implementation at both national and local levels. As it is said, this step seems very good, useful and should be absolutely supported, but I cannot agree that if we do not find anything that we would not like in some marriage, because it is good, because it is a good solution, then let us put it on a personal level, whether it is at the expense of the proposer or at the expense of the mayors who have been with us at the meetings of the parent working body themselves, and have also heard a great deal at their own expense, completely unjustifiable. So once again, I support this solution, and I believe it will have many beneficial effects both for the inhabitants of these areas and for nature, as well as for many visitors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u79	The word is from a colleague of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I rarely agree with my colleague Peric as much as I agree this time. Purely for introduction – how many national or national parks does Croatia have? If I counted correctly, eight. We only have one. I have a question here, say, why isn't Pohorje National Park or something. I think we should think this way, too. Another story – it is a bit unfortunate for some law on the capital to work in parallel with the TNP. Then it would be more reasonable to work and ask the question of the Maribor Law when our congregation, which I have been living in for the last 13 years, is cut by at least 20 million each year. And those compensations for the building plots. Instead of developing Maribor, we're flogging this hole. One more thing when we talk about the state, the state. Countries have different territorial organisations. We have a national level and no regions. So, don't talk, you know, because of some of your sayings, someone might ask themselves, wait, aren't the congregations a country, what are the congregations now — the universe? [[…]] If I go to the very subject. It is clear that, normally, some additional restrictions also involve additional costs. I have no idea it's going to be four million, if they are, something crazy, but something is. I'd rather see if that shared key wasn't needed. Why? Because then it would be easier to agree with the mayors, I don't know, one year of investment in one municipality, and the other year of investment in another municipality, and in some municipality, which has fewer inhabitants, it could be less square. For six years, I woke up and watched the most beautiful group — the Spike Group. I was just living on the edge of the park, being in the park almost a day and so on. In some serious societies and countries that are doing this to ourselves and the Social Democrats we are doing this, it is not actually working past people living under certain special protection regimes. The Dutch are dad's mom, how are these stories actually going? There's a key problem. If you want what we call a state or a national level, together with local communities, you need to understand these limitations, know why these restrictions are, and, after all, through tax regulations and such laws, allow people living there to live a decent life. You know, we have some practice when we find someone, I don't know, in the human language, 101 limitations, but I have in mind – this also belongs under Triglav National Park – when some gentleman from LDS turned a little sheep tray into something where it has a sauna. It is likely that sometimes sheep in Triglav National Park did not go to the sauna. These are some of the things that come into my eyes, and I actually understand the people who live under such regimes and see it as some additional restriction. I personally believe that we would need another national park in Slovenia to also need to consider some tax regulation of life under such a regime. After all, we have our Nature, which we have taken lightly – and I am not saying this because I would not support these regimes. And, of course, we need to think beyond that. As I have already mentioned, our love, dear Maribor and elsewhere. Many times, you know, I'm, I don't know – I'm a little sad about this view of Left, but I've been trying for about five years to explain to them the functioning of the local community, but J, someone is super revolutionary and knows everything. [[…]] The most challenging function in Slovenian politics is to be mayor or mayor. It's easier to be a minister, after all. The mayor or the mayor can't hide. My friend Perič was a mayor, and the mayor is also the one who is often trampled on by the mayor or the mayor, not to say anything at the end of the sentence. Or a colleague of Meira could say that. It seems to me that we must be in this so-called temple of democracy, which, unfortunately, has not done so in recent weeks, even respectful of those people who perform this difficult function. I admit that for the first time I met my peer, Franco, when I was probably a high school boy when I went to Bohinj. He allowed us to sleep there when he closed the doors and put the sleeping bags under the roof. If he were the kind of bastard that some people show, the Bohinjs probably wouldn't have chosen him as mayor so many times. But I've met the Bohinjkas and the Bohinjs so much in my life, and it seems to me, yes, that this time Levitsa did go to some level. If we are to rightly criticize the yellow-blue, we must not behave as they do. I will now, of course, support this proposal. However, I would like to think in the direction of any other national park as well as of what I have been lonely here for the past six years, some serious reforms of local self-government that we need after a quarter of a century, if not the Maribor law, at least the city council law, as if all the municipalities are of the same rank. It's not like that anywhere in the world where they don't think very much of themselves. If you go to the Court of Auditors' report, you'll often find that we're here because we're doing too little serious work, the one who's sticking the law. So that many mayors and mayors – but only a few of them may be villains, because the opportunity to make a thief, the vast majority of them do this very hard work very properly, but because the legislation is so brutal, you are often actually on some limb when the Court of Auditors rightly finds something for you. But you know, audits of the Court of Auditors should go beyond the colleague of Polnar, who is now who, and me, as well as others, read all Members and Members, because there is also an actual instruction, that task, that part that we forget: what laws we have adopted, how are implemented, what are some holes in these laws, intentional, unintended. And from these audits of the Court of Auditors, we should also make some amendments in order to make it easier for France, John, Micke, whatever their names are, to carry out their difficult work in the mayoral positions. So much for a little while. Well, I hope we finally see each other in Bohinj, because I don't know how long we've been thinking for, like, two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u81	My colleague, Bojan Podkoršek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u82	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I think that today's point, given that we have started today's meeting with a more clavicle, is an indication that Members and Members of this call or all of the National Assembly are therefore elected and we are in these seats to resolve some problems in various parts of our country. Surely the Triglav National Park, which covers eight municipalities, is an area that most countries in the world certainly want, and they do not have, but Slovenia does. I think we can be proud of this every day. However, it is probably much easier for all of us who occasionally enter Triglav National Park than for those who live in this area or in these eight congregations each day. I come from one valley alone, which is also very strictly protected. There I live, and in the past I have tasted on my own, how it is to live in an area that is quite severely protected, that it is much easier for those people who occasionally come into our valley as tourists, and especially when we touch the development of some projects that people living in a place need. I would like to commend, regardless of who the proposer is, I have already said in the opening that this is one point which tells us how it is necessary to talk in the National Assembly, as well as when the point is concluded, to vote. This is a great encouragement – I do not know all the mayors – that the eight mayors of the eight municipalities covered by the Triglav National Park, together with the municipal councils and also Members coming from this area, could sit at a joint table with one key objective of presenting a common problem in the National Assembly, of course by amending this law. I think that's commendable. I repeat, I do not know these mayors, but I do know that one mayor has been elected for several terms and is certainly worthy of their trust. The money that will come to this congregation, divided by the key agreed by the mayors, will certainly go for the right goal. I will be happy to support this proposal for a law, but I wish all good to Triglav National Park, which is one of the few in the world for me. Thank you very much for your word, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u83	The word is from a colleague of Rudy Bear's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, President. Although the Triglav National Park Act is very clear. Among other things, it states: the task of government officials is to provide adequate support for the provision of economic and social conditions, the sustainable development of activities that enable and support the maintenance of settlements, the quality of living and working environment, the characteristic identity and traditional use of natural goods. It's all clear. Articles 10 and 11 provide that projects and investments in economic public infrastructure, in the development of social and economic activities – and include education, health care, social protection, crafts, entrepreneurship – and the provision of additional funds of 80 % of the pre-budgeted value of each investment for the implementation of public services in the State budget. It is obvious, however, that the law is also disabled enough to be disregarded in this country in the ten years that these provisions are in force and are not implemented. That is why I see this proposal, which is on the table, primarily as an extremely operational proposal which can only come from a local environment that knows the situation in that area. I come from Zasavje myself. The suction is unlikely to occur in the near or distant future of the national park. True, however strange it may seem that some parallels can be drawn in the face of developmental problems. Like the Triglav National Park area, because of the status it has, developmental constraints and, of course, development in this area costs more than anywhere else, so the whole Sava region is severely constrained by the impact of mining and other industries. In the past there have been ideas about a special law on Zasavje – but there have been many such facts for different areas in Slovenia. Experience with the implementation of the Triglav National Park Act has now taught us that even if we legalise something, how we will support the development of this area at national level, even if we make it legal, it has not yet been said and it is far from being implemented. Therefore, the proposed solution is also a departure from each policy. If we have written in the law that this is the task of government departments, and the government departments have not fulfilled this task in the past period, this on the other hand is now a solution that will not depend on will, each time the will of individual government departments, but it will simply be legalized. I also understand the position of the Ministry of the Environment and Space that it is well-intentioned, but now that we are talking about the Regulation on criteria and criteria for the promotion and co-financing of projects, investments and activities in the Triglav National Park – this is a regulation – and after we add to this an action plan for the co-financing of park local communities and when we pull this together, it seems to us that everything on this basis is moving somewhere to the future. This is not according to the example of the "founding commission because you are not solving the problem" but in some ways the implementation of the regulation and the action plan itself is very questionable under the conditions of the law in force so far. I do not come from the Triglav National Park area, i.e. from any of these congregations, to be particularly emotional and to support this amendment of the Law – Zasavje is quite far from the Triglav National Park – but Triglav National Park, as probably all Slovenes, is extremely fond of me and, of course, I will support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u85	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] I'm opening the log-in list. Applications are under way. My friend Andrei Reich has the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. As a member of the party proposing the law, of course, I will support the law, as the law finally eliminates the injustice that is happening to these local park communities, thus providing resources that are based on more than 38 restrictions and prohibitions that make life in this area difficult. In fact, injustice is thus done to the inhabitants and local communities. At the same time, this law gives one encouraging message to other local communities. Of course, it sends a message that, if a country imposes something, restrictions, local communities will also receive an appropriate remuneration or payment. This also gives one clear message to the city’s municipalities that they will be adequately compensated in the near future for the tasks to be performed and entrusted to them. I can give an example of the Municipality of Maribor. Remember, the Municipality of Maribor is the second largest and second most important municipality in the country, is the most important municipality in north-eastern Slovenia and a community of living interests in the area. Remember, the Municipality of Maribor provides adequate cultural offer, national theatre and ballet, puppet theatre, numerous museums, galleries, numerous sports infrastructure, from rowing clubs to handball, to volleyball, balining, karate, juda and so on, even rowing, the entire health infrastructure at the primary level, schools and kindergartens with adapted programs visited by guards from as many as 30 neighbouring municipalities, the necessary infrastructure such as the railway station and many cultural institutions. These are the functions performed by the local congregation for many neighboring congregations, and this is not properly evaluated and there is no such awareness. When I look back a little while ago, when the Law on Local Self-Government was passed and a number of small municipalities were formed, no one told the people of the newly formed municipalities that they would thus distance themselves from the local centre, the regional centre of international importance which provides them with these services. Even in the case of Konjic or Zreč you had a pool together, and now the pool is on the shoulders of the Municipality of Slovenian Konjice and is probably also intended for the inhabitants of Zreč. These are matters when the common infrastructure was previously common and now, in fact, because of the new facts, administrative facts, administrative units and the newly created local borders of the municipal municipality, are significantly reduced. In the case of Maribor, we are talking about 20 million funds. Even if only one coefficient were appropriate to look at and ensure how much resources would be needed only for the operation of this infrastructure and these services, the Municipality of Maribor, if it were to fund as much as all other services, should provide at least EUR 10 million. Of course, I very much welcome this law on Triglav National Park because it gives a clear signal that the local communities will finally receive the necessary resources for the tasks they have been assigned in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Matthew the Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. As we have heard today from various positions of the parliamentary groups, who are responsible for this law today, or who has advocated it all — the fact is that a person’s taking a stand for certain things does not mean that he has done them. Today, however, the fact is certainly accurate and correct — that Franz Kramar introduced this law and that he has always taken the lead in pushing forward that this law has come to the table today. All of us sitting here were supporting him and supporting him so that we could accept him. This was not a group of one Member's joint or other parliamentary group, but the fact is that if France Kramar had not been here and if he had not fought, as he had fought for this law, for this change of law, today would probably not have been and would not have been adopted, regardless of the discussions we are having. So, Francie, thank you again. You've had my support since the first day I found out you wanted to make this change of law in this term. We've all found out so many times that we can't have everything. We cannot have an unspoiled nature, as some want, in which no intervention will be allowed, on the other hand we cannot have developed tourism, a developed local environment, a satisfied population living there, modern infrastructure and so on. We cannot have it all together, but it is very good to try to put all these stakeholders together. This is why the Law on the Triglav National Park, which established the area of the national park and, in particular, the rules applicable in that area, was adopted. The objective and purpose of the Triglav National Park was to preserve exceptional natural and cultural values, to protect the indigenous plant and animal world, ecosystems and characteristics of the non-living world. In order to manage this park, the Public Institute of Triglav National Park has been established to ensure that the objectives of environmental protection are achieved in the National Park and to promote sustainable development of this site. The law itself also sets out ways and sources of funding. The Regulation on criteria and criteria for the promotion and co-financing of projects, investments and the implementation of activities in Triglav National Park sets out more detailed criteria and criteria for determining the level of funds to co-finance park local communities. In essence, the Regulation specifies the provisions of Articles 10 and 11 of that Act, while ensuring the transparent use of these funds. If there were a parking area outside local communities, I wouldn't see any problems with the regulation so far. This is how the local population, organised in the local community, lives in the parking area and has all the rights of the other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We must never forget, however, that this law has brought the nationalisation of the entire area, and this has meant that the local community and the population have made life, work and development of the area or place they live in. They had to comply with strict environmental and other regulations and follow the policy of the Public Institute of Triglav National Park. In this way, individuals and the local community were completely alienated from co-managing the area. This is why many have moved to other areas outside the park. To preserve nature and ensure the sustainable development of this area, we must listen to them, to those who live there. Within 40 years of the adoption of the Triglav National Park, the weaknesses of this regime, in particular in the area of financing or investment in infrastructure and general development, have also been demonstrated. It is not possible to ignore the applicant's arguments that the existing method of allocation of funds is ineffective. It does not allow for the prediction of projects in the area of local communities in Triglav National Park. It is therefore a harmonious short-term action, linked mainly to the will of decision makers and the available resources. As a result, this is reflected in the amount of State budget resources for future periods. The proposed amendment would lead to a significantly faster implementation of conservation measures and national parks. It is also intended to contribute to the demobilisation of the country and the local administration, as the arrangements so far provide for a type of mutual coordination and planning. In practice, it has proved to be a bad marriage solution because it has not been implemented at all so far. The proposal to amend the fourth paragraph of Article 11 by giving 0.2% of the total revenue each year in the Republic of Slovenia to co-finance projects, investments and activities in the local community in the Triglav National Park seems to me to be completely corrected. Also because the mayors of the park local communities could agree on the share of the corresponding funds for the individual community on the basis of the criteria, population and size of the community. Of course, then we also need to amend the current regulation accordingly. If I finish. I personally support the amendment of the Triglav National Park Act, but with a clear emphasis that funds will have to be used transparently, economically and deliberately in the area and for the purposes of the park, not for the other needs of the local community. The proposed amendments will allow mayors to decide on the implementation of joint major projects in the area of the Triglav National Park, especially in the area of infrastructure and tourism, by system, as they know abroad, such as Dolomiti. The mayors will also assume one major responsibility for the coherent sustainable development of these local communities. We will return optimism, trust, cooperation, integration and development to Triglav National Park. Only by doing so will we be able to manage it together, with responsibility and justice. We can't forget that Triglav National Park isn't from anyone, but it's from all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u89	Anyone else? Proposer, colleague Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you very much, President, once again for your word. After these discussions, I am actually very pleasantly surprised by the fact that we are all aware of the values of the Triglav National Park, how we all know that nature must be preserved, but we must never forget that people live in this nature. It's because people live there because they have as much control as they can with the restrictions, and I think it's fair that they get a reward for it. Of course, I thank everyone on behalf of all the people of the park municipalities for your support. This is actually what you do with the Triglav National Park Park, which brings benefits in life, not disadvantages or barriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u91	I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the SAB Group of Ambassadors for a new title and a new Article 1.a. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a law on changes to the law on the protection of nature within the framework of an end-of-life procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Metka Gorišek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u92	Your Honor! I just want to briefly present what changes are being made. That is, the subject of amendments to the Nature Conservation Act is the elimination of infringements resulting from the European Commission's progressive actions due to the reported non-compliance and non-compliance with obligations under Articles 6 and 16 of the Habitats Directive. This is a novel that will change these violations. Article 10 of the law governing exceptions to the application of the law and thus exceptions to the Habitats Directive in the event of a direct threat to human life and health or property, in the event of the rescue of persons and property and in the case of the implementation of defence measures. For these cases, the non-compliant transposition of Article 15 of the Habitats Directive shall be eliminated by defining these exceptions more restrictively and in close connection with the system of protection against natural and other disasters, including a clear definition of when these conditions cease and by requiring the competent nature protection service to determine the impact of the implementation of essential works and measures during this period on the objectives of biodiversity conservation and the protection of natural values. In view of the more consistent transposition of Article 6 of the Habitats Directive, Article 102 of the Act is amended. The amendments remove the apparent non-conformity transposition of the Directive in such a way that they always constitute a compensatory measure in the acceptability assessment procedure in the case of the definition of alternative habitats and, in such a case, a public benefit predominance procedure under Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Habitats Directive. It is no longer a relief measure, but a compensatory measure. At the same time, it is clear that the establishment of a substitute habitat must have the same nature-protection characteristics as a substitute habitat and that this area must have the same legal status as a substitute area after its establishment. This means that it is a compensatory measure that completely replaces the lost habitat. After the establishment of this area, the area must also receive the same legal status as the replacement area. So we have a new habitat, a new habitat. It is also expressly excluded that, as a compensatory measure in plans and interventions that may have a significant impact on the protection objectives of the special protection zone or potential special conservation area, the establishment of another area which does not have the same nature-protection characteristics as replaced areas would also be considered as a compensatory measure in those areas to provide for the payment of a cash amount of some damage caused. This is not only a substitute area, but a compensatory measure which allows for the same habitat and with the same status as the one dealt with under Article 6 of the Directive. The subject matter is also an amendment to Article 137, which has been amended incompletely in the transitional provision of the Law on NGOs and has not been replaced in all articles by the word “non-governmental organisation”. In order to avoid non-compliance with the Law on Non-Governmental Organisations, as well as to ensure compliance with the Aarhus Convention, this supplement is necessary in order to remove any doubt as to whether all non-governmental organisations acting in the public interest in the field of nature conservation are justified in all legal forms. I think this is all about the change of law by our presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u93	The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mateja Udovč.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 17th session. 5. 2020 as a parent labour body has considered the proposal for a law amending the Nature Conservation Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. On behalf of the applicant, the Minister for the Environment and the Magi Area provided an introductory explanation of the draft law. Andrej Vizjak pointed out his basic objectives and main solutions. In particular, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the content of the amendments tabled by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, which the SPS considers to be moving away from the origin of the bill's proposal. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the amendment to Article 3 provides for the establishment of new conditions for obtaining the status of operation of NGOs in the public interest. Such arrangements will affect the functioning of NGOs in all matters they will carry out, not only in certain cases or types of cases, for example to participate in administrative procedures in a particular area. In this regard, it clarified the constitutional framework of this institution and stressed that the restriction on the functioning of NGOs has, inter alia, an impact on the constitutionally protected right to assembly and association referred to in Article 42 of the Constitution, which provides two independent individuals, for the development of a democratic and plural society, an important human right — to peaceful assembly and freedom of association — which stems from the principle of democracy and contains already Article 1 of the Constitution. In the debate, opposition parliamentary groups stressed their opposition to the amendment of the SNS Group, which substantially changes the content of the bill as it was transmitted to the legislative process. To a large extent, it has been assessed that it is a content that strongly strengthens the conditions that NGOs must meet in nature conservation to be able to carry out activities in the public interest. In addition, in their view, the amendment breaks relations compared to non-governmental organisations operating in other areas of operation. It was pointed out that they could not agree to support legislation that sought to significantly reduce the impact of NGOs in planning and/or placing large infrastructure projects in space and building them. In particular, in their arguments, they relied on the ZPS's warnings that the content of the amendment was controversial in terms of its compliance with several articles of the Constitution. The Ministry of Environment and Space and Members and Members of Coalition Group stressed that societies could continue to operate within the framework of the Social Act and exercise their rights to gather and unite for the status of non-governmental organisations and that a threshold would be set in the field of conservation if the amendment was adopted, such as 50 active members for society. They stressed that the content of the amendment follows some very comparable arrangements of other countries. They pointed out that in Slovenia a number of nature-protection organisations, which are committed and professionally engaged in nature conservation, were unfortunately some of them, which in different cases were of different interests, such as environmental protection or nature, delaying the start of important infrastructure projects. Members of the coalition parliamentary groups, however, pointed out that the proposed conditions in the amendment of the SNS Group of Members could lead to the loss of status of some important non-governmental organisations that carry out public service or manage natural resources, such as fishing families, hunting families, beekeeping companies and so on, as well as non-governmental organisations that carry out public service in the field of protection and rescue. As a result, they proposed an amendment to the amendment of the SNS Group's Article 3 to provide for exceptions to these NGOs regarding the status of action in the public interest. After discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Article 1 and Article 5 of the coalition groups, amendments to Article 3 of the SNS delegation group, new Article 3a and to the title of the chapter of the Final Provisions and its amendment to the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 3. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Dušan Šiško is given the floor to present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Nature is alone, so we must preserve it, but not at any cost. It is also necessary to complete some hydropower plants, build new factories, productions, because people need new jobs, money to survive, because they will not be satisfied with watching grass. The birds on the branch are already sizzling that our Republic of Slovenia has received an official reminder due to the incorrect transposition of the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive. In July 2019 we received a reasoned opinion due to non-compliance, which does not surprise us. Slovenia, as Slovenia, has satisfactorily explained half of the cases to the European Commission in its reply. The aim of the law is to harmonise Slovenian legislation with EU legislation, in particular the Habitats Directive, which will also affect the implementation of interventions into space. We agree that the amendment to Article 10 of the Law should define exceptions more appropriately, more restrictively and in a closer link between protection against natural and other disasters. It is also clearly defined as an end to the situation and that within 60 days of the end, the competent nature protection service shall determine the impact of the implementation of the necessary works and measures on the objectives of biodiversity conservation and the protection of natural values. Among other things, Article 102 provides more precisely that the establishment of a substitute habitat must have the same nature-protection characteristics as a substitute habitat and that it must be given the same legal status as the replacement area after its establishment. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we were stabbed primarily by Article 173, so we tabled an amendment on the parent's working body, which triggered a wave of indignation, the disgust of the NGOs and those protestors before the temple of democracy, and elsewhere. We have also addressed nothing in our client's written and oral questions on this pressing subject. We stress that not all NGOs are bad. Some are public benefit, others are profit-making, so it is right that NGOs meet certain conditions, because without this it does not go so far across the board. We were struck by the fact that representatives of certain non-governmental organisations comment on the professional work of the detection bodies with their quasi-discrimination. Certain communications sent to the public by NGOs are insufferable and detrimental to public order and peace, as their views raise concerns between citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that certain NGOs need to be deleted; we only need a handful of those who are really useful and work for the good of the country. I still live in front of the eyes that representatives of the PIC of non-governmental organisations have been instructing illegal migrants how to abuse the system of international protection, and they have been given hard-earned budget resources from taxpayers. Thus were complaints by the Society for Environmental Protection and Nature Protection of Alpe Adria Green Slovenia about Ars' environmental consensus for the Magna Hoče - Slivnica project. The company for the study of fish of Slovenia was also involved in the hydroelectric power plant Mokrice. They were afraid of threatening the fish species and so on. The fish will go a little differently if they can't be on that rock! These are things that have been dripping over the edge and that is why the Ministry of Environment and Space should prepare a law to overwind, which organisations are in the public interest. I would also like to thank the legislative and legal commission that we have not yet received their opinion on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We continue with the position of the SDS Group, which will be presented by Mr Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. We have before us a proposal for a law on conservation of nature in the shorter procedure proposed by the government in its previous composition. The new government is continuing the urgent change process. It is less difficult to harmonise the law with EU law, which is due to perceived infringements and the European Commission's reasoned opinion. The proposal for a law contains urgent amendments to the Nature Conservation Act, which are the result of actions taken by the European Commission in view of the reported non-compliance and non-compliance with obligations under Articles 6 and 16 of the Council Directive on the conservation of natural habitats and wild animal and plant species. Amendments to Article 10 of the Law governing exceptions to its application and thus exceptions to the Habitats Directive in the event of a direct threat to human life and health and property. It is also an amendment to Article 102 of the Nature Act, which removes doubts that they always constitute a compensatory measure in the acceptability assessment procedure in the case of the establishment of substitute habitats, and in such a case, they are a public benefit predominant procedure. Article 137 is also amended, which is inconsistent with the Law on Informal Organisations and defines the status, manner of operation of professional and amateur societies and other non-governmental organisations in the field of nature conservation and how they operate in administrative and judicial proceedings. In the SDS Group, we share the view that there is a need to find a consensus on environmental protection and economic interest. This means that we respect and support the functioning of environmental NGOs and at the same time economic development and progress in the implementation of infrastructure projects. Amendments to the laws shall include arrangements for the operation and participation of environmental protection organisations in proceedings. Following the example of some European countries, such societies will continue to exist and operate as before, a new threshold for 50 active members with paid membership and participation in the general assembly, which will be a condition for obtaining the status of action in the public interest. It is worth noting that in Slovenia a number of nature-protection organisations, which are committed and professionally engaged in nature conservation, are unfortunately some of which, in different cases and from different interests, such as nature or environment protection, have stalled the launch of important infrastructure projects. There will also be a new condition for the number of employees in the case of the status form of the establishment, namely at least three employees with at least seven levels of professional education or six levels and two years of working experience in nature conservation if the coalition amendment is adopted. If a non-governmental organisation is organised in the form of an institution, it will have to have at least ten thousand euros in assets. In the SDS Group, we agree that these prescribed conditions for obtaining public interest status in nature conservation will not have to be met by NGOs if they have a concession contract with the Republic of Slovenia for the implementation of sustainable management or management of natural resources and protected areas, and even if they organise service units and other operational units to carry out protection, rescue and assistance or public service tasks on the basis of a decision of the competent authority of the local community or of the State authority. These include important NGOs such as fishing families, the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia, beekeeping companies, lobster and underwater rescue services. In the SDS Group, we will support changes that do not interfere with the functioning of societies which will be able to act and actively participate in procedures as before, but with increased emphasis on representing the broadest possible public interest. We are convinced that it is important that the roles in the procedures are clearly demarcated and that non-governmental organisations are able to monitor the role of the provider of expertise and the role of the partner in the design of professional decisions. In our Group of Members, it is still important that the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment, the Institute for the Protection of Nature, the Court and others professionally perform their role in accordance with the law of the European Union and Slovenia and in the spirit of the good host and guardian of the environment and nature in addition to NGOs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Medved will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Vice President. The proposal for a Law on Nature Conservation was essentially very routine at the beginning, but it was in the process of how appropriate, and just at the right time as a tool not only to increase pressure on non-governmental organisations, but as an account of qualified nature advocates. Since there was at first some little awareness in the work of the government coalition that natural protection organisations were not merely administrative obstacles, the biggest government party for support came through the framework of the formal coalition and thus formed an amendment of the Slovenian National Party, which completely changed the original purpose of Article 137 of the Act. With the amendment to the amendment, the coalition has been very clumsy at the last moment to try to put out a fire of great dissatisfaction between natural protection organisations and the general public. It was clear that the policy of the current Minister for the Environment and Space to reduce environmental and spatial protection standards had already been pushed under the cover of the fight against the epidemic into the intervention law by tightening the conditions of non-governmental organisations acting as parties in the process of obtaining a building permit. We are surprised that such a policy of removing environmental protection from many harmful projects is being followed more or less silently and is also supported by coalition parties, which otherwise publicly advocate environmentally-friendly sustainable development. “Without taking care of the environment, it is impossible to talk about development,” said the Environment Minister of the Modern Centre Party, who has led this area until recently. Or: "With agricultural policy, we support the sustainable development of agriculture, which should be economically effective and competitive, socially, socially responsible, but also environmentally friendly and sustainable." This is recorded on the Ministry of Agriculture’s website, led by the coalition party Desus. Environmental mainstreaming is obviously good for the customers in the language, and their practice testifies to this crippled law that we are dealing with today. If non-governmental organisations were a security guard who tried to stop some wild project and pointed out illegal procedures and environmental inadmissibility of certain projects, by approving the law, they would literally want to remove the coalition under the leadership of the SDS. They see us as enemies, a true environmental activist Uroš Macerl, who would find it difficult to read his way of action, as the current Minister of Environment explains in the manner of the Holy Forgiveness. For he says that a group of three people at the inn, which organizes a congregation of members there, cannot have the status to act in the public interest. Who said they should have it? This is therefore the view of the ruling coalition on NGOs, in which case environmental ones, but not very different from others. However, the current Minister for the Environment and Space could see that a whole bunch of projects, which are due to NGOs, are not actually due to NGOs. For example, you could look at the Environment Agency, why it does not respect the legal deadlines for assessing environmental impacts. Ask domestic and foreign investors what experience they have with long-term pooled environmental licensing procedures. In the Charter of Marjan Šarc, we will support the amendment, which brings back the original meaning of Article 137 of this Act, namely compliance with the Law on NGOs, which will allow the interests of nature conservation to be represented in administrative and judicial proceedings for all governmental, non-governmental organisations. At the same time, we advocate the view that laws cannot be written without cooperation with those whom these laws refer to. NGOs are prepared to engage in such a dialogue, and they themselves recognise that some of them are going too far to obstruct and block some projects and are contrary to common sense. However, individual cases cannot be the basis for denying legitimate public participation in environmental decision-making.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor! Like many times in the legislative procedure, the government has tabled a legislative proposal, the essence of which is to harmonise Slovenian legislation with European Union legislation. The proposal for a novel would not be disputed if the Slovenian legislation were left alone to comply with the specific directive of the European Union which speaks of habitats, but unfortunately that is not the case. The Slovenian national party has tabled an amendment to the proposal with identical content and text as the ruling coalition in the anti-Korona marriage package, which completely limits NGOs in the field of nature conservation in their functioning and active participation in activities of public interest. NGOs working in nature conservation are the voice of nature and the environment. These organisations, which you flatly mark as unnecessary in the ruling coalition, are organisations that protect the environment, an environment that is common to all of us and that does not belong to any political option. That you softened the storm caused by such a move, you came up with an amendment that you wanted to take civil initiatives across the street. If I sum up the words of one of the representatives of these organizations, you hit them hard with your right hand first and you hit them with your correctional amendment with your left hand just as much as you did. In times of climate and environmental change, when every voice of the interests of nature is still needed, you have decided that you do not want well-intentioned warnings or do not want them. Warnings and representations of nature are not deliberately hindering and limiting projects and progress as you imagine in the ruling coalition. Organizations that care about nature conservation are organisations that ensure that we can live qualityly in the future, regardless of political conviction. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have signed an amendment which will provide for the exercise of an activity in the public interest to take shape before the adoption of this law. If the amendment we co-signed is approved, we will support the law, otherwise the law will not receive the support of MEPs and SD Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Your Honors are here! The Law on Nature Conservation was very varied on the parental committee itself. Our work was accompanied by a whole protest in front of the National Assembly. The main reason for the protest was the proposed amendment, which envisaged tightening the conditions for obtaining the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest. Although the main reason for the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act was compliance with the European Habitats Directive, the main focus was on NGOs and their role in nature conservation. In the Modern Centre Party, we recognize the special status of NGOs in our country. We are aware of their role, their importance and that they represent an important complement to the public apparatus, so we are really pleased that the coalition has tabled an amendment on our initiative to prevent the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest from losing some NGOs that play an important role in the management of natural resources. At the same time, we also drew attention to non-governmental organisations that carry out or perform public service, in the area of protection, rescue and rescue, or the lobster rescue service, underwater rescue service, mountain rescue service, and so on. Last but not least, I am one of the NGOs that manage protected areas. The protected area may be established by the State and the municipalities. However, a concession may also be granted for management to non-governmental organisations that meet specific, specific conditions. These conditions are usually different or milder than the conditions proposed by the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Normally, fewer members are required in the statutes of these associations or other forms of organised NGOs, even under 50. Also for today's consideration of the bill's proposal, we have tabled an amendment by the coalition parliamentary group, which we have drawn up on the basis of some warnings on the committee. We are proposing to ease the conditions for institutions wishing to acquire the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest in nature conservation, namely that the institution must have two employees with a sixth level of education. We also propose to amend the condition regarding the registration of membership payments. According to our proposal, the fee paid shall be considered to be when the payment is made and recorded in any way but not only by directing the transaction account as originally proposed. With these corrections, we estimate that the coalition amendment solves the dilemmas that emerged during the debate, so we will support the bill proposal and the coalition amendment in the Modern Centre. Regardless of all the developments around Parliament in the turbulent debate that took place on the parental committee and the temperamental debate that we can expect today, we must once again make it clear that we are aware of the important role of NGOs in the Modern Centre Party. NGOs represent an important partner in the design of marriage and other solutions. This was also recognized by both the Minister for Environment and Space of our kind, who had an open dialogue with NGOs within the Special Council. We therefore hope and call on the current Minister in the Modern Centre Party to continue this dialogue for the benefit of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Ms Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor! This is a law that sets out biodiversity conservation measures and a system for the protection of natural values in order to contribute to the conservation of nature. In fact, the basic law would not be wrong because it is a matter of transposition of the European directive, but what if an amendment of the SNS party, which is in fact the Visians, was attached to the bill, and the SNS, in its pro-janszevo manner, merely carried out a small dirty coalition deal, which it does not even hide. As Article 42 of the Anti-Korona Act has now been framed in the anti-Korona Act, this amendment is based on the same prescription. But they both mean a war promise to preserve nature. We know that with the amendment of the anti-Korona law, the government has opened the door wide to dirty capital, which systematically violates laws in nature conservation, environmental protection, spatial planning, thereby jeopardising the environment, nature and human health. The SNS's amendment assists the government in the way that it also applies to NGOs in the field of environmental protection to participate in the issuance of building permits in the public interest. This is a copy-paste strategy which does not deprive NGOs in the field of environmental protection of their right to participate in procedures, but sets such a high threshold that almost no organisation will be able to reach them, especially since it should meet them two years ago. Of course, the government knows that almost none of the organisations of the new conditions can meet back because there were no such conditions at the time, and they did not know that they had to meet them. And what are these conditions? For companies of 50 active members, as shown by the regular fee paid and participation in the meetings of the members, for the offices of three full-time employees and vocational education VII. the level of activity of non-governmental organisations, for institutions to have at least EUR 10 000 of assets at all times. It's absurd, but it's real. These are conditions that are much more acute than those of infrastructure projects. You're trying to fix this with a coalition amendment, but that's not enough. And what does all this mean for the environment and nature? Nothing good. Over the next two years, all infrastructure projects will be able to be implemented without adequate public control over the legality and environmental adequacy of projects. Such an arrangement is contrary to the Aarhus Convention, to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for the direct application of ratified conventions and Directives of the European Union on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment. By summarizing the environmental activist Roseman of the Balkan River Defence, I state: “In the game, there is uncontrolled access to nature and natural resources. The sale of the nature of capital will take place, partly to Slovenia and mostly to foreigners. We're going to happen in the woods. Instead of the lively rivers, we'll get dead accumulations. We're about to have a cracking in Prekmur. New motorway legs will be pulled over the most beautiful meadows, we will get even bigger shopping centers, new magnets and so on." End of story. If the constitutionally disputed SNS amendment is proclaimed, which is also recalled by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the status and possibility of active nature protection in procedures will lose more than 90% of the current owners, and nature will be completely unprotected from now on. All mechanisms that have protected against reckless interventions that follow only capital, profit and quasi-development will be removed. Under the pretext of adopting European directives, the adoption of the Visionary Amendment will significantly reduce the democratic governance of administrative and other procedures in which NGOs operate with the status of protecting the public interest of environmental protection. In Levika, if the SNS of the Visionary Amendment or the amendment of the coalition is adopted, we will strongly vote against it. If the amendment of the Left, the SD and the LMŠ are adopted, we will, of course, support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mrs Tadeja Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. The most powder was raised by the adopted amendment on the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest in the area of nature conservation in the amended Law on Nature Conservation. The opposition and NGOs are telling us that we want to disable them, which is simply not true. Amendments shall only be introduced into a part which speaks of the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest. At first, the conditions have become much more severe, but we have made the amendments much easier, including the amendment that we are considering at today's meeting. The requirement that three persons with the seventh level of education be employed in a non-governmental organisation has to be given a warning and a presentation of an opinion by non-governmental organisations on the basis of two full-time employees with the sixth level of education and 2 years of experience in this field. The amendment can also be viewed from a second perspective as an opportunity for organisations that promote the same interests to join together and become stronger, to acquire new members or to encourage existing ones to pay the membership fee. Many NGOs complained about the minimum number of members participating in the annual assembly. These are supposed to be 50, but for a serious organisation, and these are quite something in Slovenia, that will not be a problem. Of course, these new proposals only apply to organisations that would like to gain a new status in the public interest. For existing ones who already have this status, it is only a requirement that they convene a congregation and prove their membership within six months. And no one's going to check on the memberships they've collected. Therefore, the allegations that NGOs will withdraw from the amendment simply do not. In Slovenia, 28 thousand NGOs are weak according to the data of the umbrella network of NGOs in Slovenia. The number shall be increased by 500 each year. Given only active organisations, there are still 27,000 of them. I sincerely believe that within these 27,000 organisations there are similar interests that could unite and defend nature. After all, we are all proud of our beautiful Slovenia, flora and favo. However, we need to find a balance between nature conservation and other investment projects. Non-governmental organisations are often wrongly treated as solely disruptors and “stoppers” of projects, which is not true. Many NGOs are struggling with the heart and soul to preserve and study nature. I know quite a few people who do. Of course, there are also abuses and extortion of NGOs. And it is because of abuse that we want to set the criteria that will give effect to serious organizations that can demonstrate by their constructive work that they are doing well and that they are concerned by nature. I am pleased that we have also included those organisations that have fallen out of the law in the draft law. These are the fishing and beekeeping services, the lobster and underwater rescue services and others that are otherwise organized. Since in New Slovenia we want to call NGOs in nature conservation to return the reputation of acting in the public interest, we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today, in the National Assembly, we are considering a proposal for amendments to the Nature Conservation Act, which, if the amendment did not affect the already granted right of civil society to participate actively in administrative and judicial proceedings, would merely constitute a harmonisation of the Slovenian acquis with the European one. In 2017, the European Commission issued an official reminder for incorrect transposition and non-compliance with the obligations of Article 6(3) and (4) and Article 16(1) of the Council Directive on the conservation of natural habitats and wild fauna and flora. The Government has submitted a proposal for a law aimed at harmonising Slovenian legislation with European Union legislation, amending the three articles. Amendment to Article 10 provides for exceptions to the obligation to maintain biodiversity and to protect natural values under this Act. Article 102 removes any doubt and clearly provides that, in the case of the determination of natural habitats, the latter shall always constitute a countervailing measure in the acceptability assessment procedure. The substitute habitat must have the same nature-protection characteristics and be given the same legal status as the replacement area. As the latter, it is proposed to amend Article 137 of the Law, which means compliance with the Non-Governmental Organisations Act, but the latter has made the most of its attention. The reason for the public’s violent response, the protests, was the decision on the amendment to the law on the working body, which significantly exacerbates the conditions for non-governmental organisations to participate in public interest in the field of nature conservation in administrative and judicial proceedings. The conditions for cooperation and access to a legal remedy in the field of environmental protection as a set of guarantees to members of the public make it possible to challenge the legality of actions or the abandonment of public authorities, which unfortunately often comes under the pretext of environmental protection. Let me give just one example of the third development axis when a group of three individuals stop the project. According to the proposal of the SNS Group, a non-governmental organisation in the field of nature conservation would acquire the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest only if it had at least 50 active members in the current or last two years, at least three full-time employees and a seventh level of education, and every three years it should prove at least 10 000 euro of assets with appropriate documentation. The proposal is extremely strict and is unattainable for most existing societies, as the functioning of societies is based on non-profit and volunteering. At the meeting of the committee, the government coalition adopted the amendment by voting, 11 votes in favour and 7 against. It also voted in favour of the proposed amendments to the Nature Conservation Act as a whole. We have received additional amendments by the coalition that favor the conditions for the operation of many NGOs in the public interest. Certain provisions have also been corrected. Despite mitigating the adoption of these, it means that the possibility of operating certain existing organisations with public interest status in administrative and judicial proceedings will be severely limited, even impossible. According to the 2014 Eurobarometer, 60% of Slovenians are convinced that a NGO company needs a bridge between people and decision makers. Non-governmental organisations dedicated to environmental protection are set up to promote and promote the application of the principles of environmental and nature protection and sustainable development among the various stakeholders of civil society in order to ensure that the voice of civil society is heard and taken into account at all levels of political decision-making and action. In the SAB, we agree that such organisations, associations are needed, as the third pillar of companies complement the circle of the economy and the public sector. Participation of the people's initiative is one of the key elements of the democratic system, its exclusion or restriction is a departure from the established standards. The active participation of civil society in decisions affecting our environment, living space, economic and economic development is very important for the client of the SAB, so we want and strive to ensure that all the interests of society are adequately taken into account and satisfied. In the SAB party, we feel that the path taken by the government is not appropriate, so we will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The last position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Protecting nature is our duty and mission, but we must always talk about nature conservation in relation to man. For man is the only creature that can purposely shape the environment for its own benefit. But man is changing and his ability to change the environment is growing. Therefore, legislation must always be adapted to new requirements. The proposed Law on Amendments to the Nature Conservation Act aims to harmonise Slovenian legislation with European Union legislation. Among other things, we are discussing changes in the application of the law, the measures by which the money carrier will be the value of the delineation of nature. However, the amendments tabled were of greater importance. In the days leading up to the 17th session of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, the members of the National Assembly received a message from individuals or groups requesting the vote on the amendments tabled. Rather than encouragingly, this torrent of messages has had exactly the opposite effect – most of these messages had the same text, namely, that the proposed amendments include determining who has the right to defend and defend nature. In the Desus Group of Members, we stress that defending and defending nature is not a right but a duty of every individual. Certain compromises must always be sought in nature conservation. There is a need to strike a balance between nature conservation and the implementation of projects that would greatly benefit people. We want to provide jobs, but we don't want to build factories. We want to drive electric cars, but we don't want to set up power plants. There are many other things we would like, but in this world we are limited by the technology we have. We must therefore make progress and build as a technology society in order to meet the growing demands and needs. For this reason, we also need to periodically rethink, verify and rewind legislation where necessary. On the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, speakers from NGOs also mentioned anomalies among them. According to them, there are also societies or institutions that may not work well enough. In the Desus Group, we would like to point out that such cases can shed a bad light on the whole image of NGOs whose primary task is to protect the environment. In particular, the possibility of taking advantage of the external expression of public interest must be highlighted. Such acts are rude and extremely inappropriate. NGOs do not work for their own good, but for the benefit of the general public. This also applies to natural protection organisations which, in today's environmental awareness trend, can thus exploit the market potential of their name. The amendments, which thus reinforce the conditions for gaining the status of a natural protection organisation in the public interest and have been adopted by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, not to be understood as punishment, but as an incentive for the better integration of NGOs in their mission. The Ambassadors of the Desus Group stress in particular that this is no war forecast to preserve nature. The additional use of this term, as presented by certain groups, is inappropriate. Maintaining nature is still one of the primary tasks of an individual and it is right that organizations and individuals always remind us of better behavior. However, it is appropriate to create a sieve with criteria that will minimise abuse. In the flood of so-called awareness-raising, it happens too often to create the wrong image. Members of the Desus Group will therefore today vote in favour of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Nature Conservation and of the proposed amendments to the coalition. We believe that the new conditions will encourage all smaller organisations to connect. Their ultimate goal is so similar – to remind them of the importance of maintaining the environment. Each true advocate of nature will thus find the way to continue to carry out his mission in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Articles and the amendments tabled to Articles 3 and 3a and to the title of Chapter Transitional and Final Provisions. The amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD Group to Article 3 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same motioners to Article 3a and to the title of the Chapter, a transitional and final provision, and we will therefore discuss them together. The amendments of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Articles 3 and 3a are also substantively linked. I shall put to the debate Article 3, Article 3a and the title of the Chapter Transitional and Final Provisions and the three amendments of the members of the Groups of the Left, the LMŠ and the SD and the two amendments of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. Mr Minister has first entered the floor. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. When you listened to the opposition MPs, there was a lot of militant rhetoric. We have heard that this proposal, or this article, is a war forecast for nature conservation. On the part of the former minister responsible for NGOs, we have heard that Andrej Visiak's policy is to reduce environmental protection standards. It is also urgent to link this with a number of protests, which are also now not least before our ministry, where some activists are actually physically preventing entry into the ministry. This is a relatively aggressive policy, but it is not really just this proposal. Such aggressive policies of these same groups are also in many of the necessary projects for the development of this country. I was recently at the debate on the report of the National Energy and Climate Plan, where a number of NGOs also participated. One non-governmental organisation was heard, which was against hydroelectric power plants, and the rest was somehow acceptable to it, while another non-governmental organization opposed wind power plants and everything else was acceptable to them, and a third non-governmental organisation opposed nuclear energy and had no problems with renewables of electricity, and one environmental organisation opposed all new sources of electricity production because it said that we could import everything, regardless of whether we import it from thermal power plants in the Balkans, which emit excessive amounts of emissions into the atmosphere and poison an environment there. Now tell me how to simplify or propose something also in terms of meeting Slovenia's commitments with regard to the European Union's binding objectives of increasing the share of renewable resources in final production and taking into account all these interests of NGOs. I can't imagine and it's impossible. And then we have relatively binding goals, which are not only some form of worship for Slovenia to the European Union, but they are useful for us to make our production as clean as possible, to make it environmentally acceptable, renewable, but we cannot because this idea or that idea, this project or that project is now opposed by this, now that NGO. And projects don't move anywhere. And that's not true, Your Honor Minister, now the former Minister of Public Administration, that there are problems on Ars. There are also problems on the Ars, but in connection with the fact that the poles are constantly and again in these procedures being wrapped in wheels by opponents of NGOs who oppose the project. It is not for them to improve projects, but for them the priorities oppose them. When a country wants to effectively implement the development of this society within the meaning of the objectives set, it is also impossible to do so. Then I wonder how to continue this path: whether to actually look at the content or to accept the procedural obstacles that are at every step of any path. Ladies and gentlemen, in Slovenia we still respect the standards prescribed by the Aarhus Convention. All NGOs, including all individuals, may participate in all administrative procedures by giving their opinions, proposals to be considered and to which a position must also be taken, irrespective of this Article of the Zone and this amendment. Any non-governmental organisation, including those with three members, may participate in public hearing, may give its views and may also expect and must receive an answer to its views. However, the big difference is which NGO we recognize is acting in the public interest. This is not the same as a non-governmental organization. Even today, the Law on NGOs, as well as sectoral legislation, would have said certain conditions for this to happen. Today, a non-governmental organisation must operate for two years or three years in order to be able to apply for this status at all. It must have some history, something produced, squeezed to get this status, for the state to recognise this status to a non-governmental organisation. This is something completely different from restricting anyone’s opinion. We just recognize someone whether their actions are in the public interest or not. I think we have so far had too many criteria for granting this important status to someone in the public interest. I have repeated many times, and I repeat today that every group of several people gathered at the inn to hold a meeting of members for one table cannot yet fulfil the status recognised by the State to act in the public interest. In particular, if this same organisation, and I ask you rhetorically, violates the laws, legally proven violation of Slovenian legislation, which is covered by the court's legal judgment. Today, she or her extension may protest before Parliament, in front of the Ministry, in violation of the rules and have political support for the opposition to force its right. I don't think this is the right way to move anything forward in this country. Your claim is that Andrej Visiak's policy of lowering standards for non-governmental organisations is a grave intervention in nature. I ask you what concrete action we are infringing on the high standards of nature protection in the Republic of Slovenia. Everyone among us in this high congregation certainly has a personal relationship with nature and the environment. The claim that non-governmental organizations, including those with under 50 members, are the only ones that protect and preserve nature and the environment in this country, is kind of insulting for everyone here and for everyone else. As if we are not the ones who have priority concerns about conservation, nature and the environment. This is a priority for me, and this is how I work at every step of my life when I take my actions and my decisions. When we talk about projects, they are, after all, investors. Do you really think that all investors are representatives of vampirised capital, who would trample and demolish by nature, that investors are irresponsible, especially state-owned? Here are the designers who design according to professional doctrine. The designer must comply with the highest regulatory standards in the Republic of Slovenia when designing certain arrangements and facilities. It has to be because it's his duty. About making a statement and he's sworn in and he could lose his license. Aren't you on the side of environmental protection and nature or something? Then, after all, it's a country with its entire apparatus. When an investor gives an investor the role created by the designer, it is a country that looks at it and gives the opinion of the respondents a project with all the arrangements, when we are also talking about the impact of nature. This is the Department of Nature Protection. The stricter criteria for the participation of non-governmental organisations is a severe non-trust, according to your assessment of the Department of Nature Protection, because if these guardians are nature conservation, what is the second nature protection agency. There are 60, 70 experts in nature who work there and do their part. The same is true of the Institute of Fisheries, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment. All of these are in nature's care, and not least, the one who issues the permit. No, according to your assessment, the only NGOs with up to 50 active members are nature conservationists. This is also offensive to other NGOs with a large number of members fighting each day for the interests of a particular part of the environment they represent: fish fishermen, forest hunters, game hunters and the like. So please don't simplify. Not to simplify and narrow the focus only to some groups which, I say, also often represent the subjective interests of the leaders of these organisations. Why did we propose to set a threshold in the intervention law itself, or to remove obstacles to the implementation of these important investments and other intervention rules? Because we want the subjective opinion of individuals to be excluded from procedural obstacles. When there are 50 active members, it is just a mass, where, after all, attitudes, radical positions of individuals and compromises come about, and this NGO is now, in some way, a credible interlocutor and partner because of this mass. While few organisations may be subject to subjective opinions from individuals who are too often misused to achieve partial interests, I do not speak of any gainful matter. Respectfully, when you use this militant rhetoric to me personally as the Minister of Environment and Space and to this proposal, consider that, due to the rule of law and also to the rules and high environmental standards of nature and the environment, there are far more than a few NGOs that will not or will not meet the threshold of 50 active members or institutions with less than two employees or institutions with a capital of less than EUR 10,000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. And now I'm opening a round of motions for discussion. Please sign up for anyone you want to discuss. We've got seven interviewees reported. The first is Mrs Natasa Sukić, Mr Primož Siter is being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam President. The Honourable Minister and the others! Look, I've already made my point and argued very clearly, but I'm just going to respond a little bit to your claims. Let's say you're talking about a militant rhetoric. Insinuation that NGOs, some of them, abuse their position, but this is not a militant position that has led to a militant transformation of legislation that has so far regulated the participation of NGOs in the field of environmental and nature protection. But you don't think that's militant? You're surprised at the response you triggered by impermissible interference with the system in a way that one thing regulates retrograde, it's two years ago, for a time when these organizations didn't even know that they were supposed to meet the conditions that you've just come up with. Sorry, this is the wrong world. You set the conditions to be met by the organisations two years ago. That's one thing I'd say to you. Second thing. You're saying we all know each other. Look, the laws are to systematically regulate things. I welcome this if we all have a high environmental awareness or if we will have an even higher one in the future, but you cannot place the responsibility on each individual. That's why we have laws, so we have a system that regulates this, and that's why we also have internationally defined high environmental standards, and we also have certain, at least we should have them, with the constitution also set democratic standards. In this case, this inadmissible grave intervention, which, for my understanding, is militaristic, if we are already in such a term, in the system so far that all these things have been properly regulated, this is not going to work. Let's stop fooling around about what's really going on. With this move, you would like to be elegantly rid of organizations whose primary mission is to be overseers, called watchdog organization, if you like, I can illustrate it to you as well. Their mission is to protect the environment and nature. These are non-profit organisations, these are not organisations that go up in capital as petty other entities also for the cost of damage to nature. You're saying that investors are also responsible. Look, one, two, three irresponsible investors is enough to cause total environmental degradation. What are you going to say, Minister, and I'm asking you this directly, about the cracking in Petisovci? Do you think that's appropriate for the environment to protect nature? Because we're going to say some more about this in the future at some emergency session. What are you going to say about the fact that the corporation has even pressured the previous minister to achieve and force its own, that it is threatening the entire nature-protection system to what extent, I think in a very large radius around this particular area where cracking will take place. And we'll talk about fracking some other time, but this is just a case where it's clear that there's still a need for NGOs to play their part here, because they're independent, autonomous and have a clear mission. But that you might apologize for some anomaly if it ever happened and on the basis of it you change a system that was democratic, and that's not how it works. Since this is the same rhetoric as you say that some people are playing a system in receiving social assistance, they should be punished on an all-time basis and, as predicted, punished with some forced labour. I don't know what you're making up on the basis of some sort of minor cases, but there are always so many non-governmental organisations in every system that we don't want to talk about investors at all. Like the example of a co-incineration plant in Anhove, where we talk about the catastrophic effect on human health, where people die for one of the rare and most difficult forms of cancer. Serial. There's a much higher rate of mortality than anywhere else, but we're still moving. This is what NGOs do – prevent the demand for capital and when policies, respected ministers, at the expense of environmental degradation, at the expense of human health. Are you surprised at the responses that people protest that NGOs are protesting that the civilian public is in the air? I wouldn't be surprised. This is not a militant, respected minister, it is a response, a reaction to, for the first time, insinuations that you use to break environmental standards and, above all, democratic standards. Don't tell me what you're worried about. You're worried, yes. Why? To make some sort of procedure work. When does the procedure work? The procedure succeeds when the court has proven that something was wrong. If everything counts, if everything's all right, then in court, this organization won't make it. I'm so sorry. It's not NGOs that have ever prevented anything. This prevented the court from knowing that some standards had been violated, exceeded, and that they had not been complied with. That our legislation or European legislation should not be complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter has the next word, and Mrs Mateja Udovč is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Despite all the nice words about inclusive policies and standards reform and so on, I think it is crystal clear to all that this concrete measure is about the most clear exclusion of disruptive elements, disruptive organisations from projects that could be running business. You can talk about excluding, I say, radical positions for partial interests on the part of environmental organisations. But radical positions for partial interests are what environmentalists have been fighting all the time on the other side, on the side of the reckless business that wants to interfere with natural resources, nothing more than radical positions for partial interests. I think that this is a step towards clear destruction of democratic standards and the destruction of environmental standards, and I think that Natasha has summed up very well in her conclusion. In what way should I paint a picture of how the measure we have on the table practically prevents the participation of any environmental protection organisation, or let us say 99% of all environmental organisations and initiatives by individuals, associations and so on. In accordance with the measure we have on the table, a non-governmental organisation that reaches standards in order to be included in the decision-making process or in the placement process in the building permit area must have 50 active members. How many activist groups have 50 active members today? Everyone must be present at the convention. If it is an organisation in the form of an institution, it must have at least three regular full-time employees – watch out!– with the seventh level of education. In the case of non-governmental organisations in the form of an institution, at least EUR 10,000 in assets in the current year or in the last two years. Now, respected colleagues and colleagues, and Greenpeace Slovenia does not meet these standards, and we all know who Greenpeace is, how huge, professional, international organization Greenpeace is. Their Slovenian branch does not meet the standards imposed by this measure. The most prominent environmental organisation this measure immediately but the Priories cut off. Then what else should I do? The conditions are absurd. In fact, this means that NGOs wishing to participate in the issue of a building permit in the placement procedures will have to meet stricter conditions than companies competing for certain projects to be placed in the premises themselves. They will have to meet stricter conditions than the staff on Ars or at the Ministry. Meanwhile, yes, the minister's on the phone. What will that mean in practice? On two beautiful occasions, colleague Natasa Sukič has already mentioned Petišovce and Anhovo, if I am not mistaken. I have to draw my local case of Lafarge Cement, Trbovlje, a long 15-year-old story where a private company started having problems immediately after privatisation. She began to play law on the left and right, bend regulations, pressure decision makers, pressure legislation, pressure Arso, pressure the local community. Everything needed to be covered, except that they would not align their activities with existing legislation – either national or European directives. Then the environmentalists came and warned of these irregularities. And they were warned for 15 years in all possible ways — professionally, legally, involving local communities, civil society. But this private capital was always looking for holes. He wouldn't talk to them, he wouldn't follow their instructions, their guidelines, their warnings. No, they decided they'd rather blame the law. They were 15 years old. For 15 years, he warned 15 years of time that his work could be done in such a way as to comply with legislation and European directives. But no, they decided not to. And when it didn't work out at the end, when they blamed everything that could be curved, they had to close the door. The environmentalists, however, were those on whom they pointed to 80 or how many workers who had been fired. And there was an environmental crisis. However, this private capital could have been said from the first time: "OK, we follow the instructions and notes of environmentalists who have acted fully in the public interest of preserving the local environment." And it wouldn't be a problem. There would be no problem in their business, there would be no problem at social level. But no, they decided to go their own way. And what we're doing here today, we're legitimizing their operation. Let's cut off all that civil opposition so they won't even be able to come forward. And nothing else. Minister, when you say that nothing really changes, that everyone can participate in the debates, this reminds me of the Slovenian Parliament in 2020. We can all participate in the debates. As for Primoz Siter, Ambassador of the Left, he can now speak what he wants. But will my position be taken into account? Will the position of these environmentalists be taken into account? Look, environmental, any civil non-governmental organisation urgently needs a society. Why? Because, as we've heard, watch dogs. Because dogs are watchdogs that warn you of a mistake. Who act activism where the country kneels. This is a very good indicator – where civil society is more and more involved, it is an indicator that the country is kneeling in that area. That is why we have a lot of civil society organisations and activists in the environment and in the social sector, in warning of poverty. Because that's where the country is weak. On the other hand, I have not seen a civil organisation pointing out the inconveniences capital has. No, it's always a lop-dimensional job. The honourable Minister, the distinguished representatives of the Government, is not the point in cutting civil society off from the decision-making process, the problem is that the Government is not working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Matei Udovč, Mr Robert Polnar is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. In the debate on the amendments, it is worth mentioning that in the debate on the working body by the invited representatives of non-governmental organisations, we have been warned that the amendments adopted by the Committee still do not remove all the problems that NGOs already have in the public interest and which have already participated in administrative and judicial proceedings on the basis of the law. It is mainly non-governmental organisations established in the form of an institution. On the basis of the changed conditions, there should be at least three employees with the seventh level of education, as my colleague Siter has just said, and this would mean high operating costs for these organisations, which are difficult for them to afford. That is why we listened to and tried to find a suitable solution together in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre at the said debate. We have found an example in the Environmental Protection Act or in article 30 of the Law, which speaks of an environmental protection officer. Pursuant to this Article, an organisation which is required to obtain an environmental authorisation must have an employee of a special authority who must have at least a sixth level of education and experience in the field of environmental protection for 5 years. The latter arrangement seemed comparable or meaningful, and the experience of these people was linked to a two-year period in which a non-governmental organisation could acquire a status of action in the public interest. The coalition partners supported our proposal, but only when we agreed to a compromise solution to raise the required condition to two employees. The original proposal was therefore three employees, in the Modern Centre Party we proposed only one employee, and in the end we agreed on a compromise solution with two employees. We have also listened to the comments of NGOs regarding the proof of the condition of payment of membership. In the light of the experience with the business of NGOs, we have observed that NGOs also have to issue accounting documents in accordance with Slovenian accounting standards, on the basis of which revenue can be recorded in business books. They can also do business with cash. Therefore, the condition of proof of paid membership by demonstrating only the inflows referred to in this Title to the transaction account cannot be maintained. It follows from practice that, for example, companies, either at the meetings of members or at their other events, also issue receipts from the bound accounts of accounts, which means that the membership in the company’s transaction account is not directed by a member, but that the latter transaction is carried out by the company itself on the basis of the invoice issued. Of course, companies also keep records of paid memberships for these purposes, both on the basis of direct transactions on the TRD and on the basis of the accounts issued in the bound book. Therefore, it makes sense that in the application for the status of companies, a register of paid memberships with the accompanying authentic accounting documents is required, i.e. not only by direct payments to the transaction account. In addition, it is worth noting that the company must draw up an annual report on the basis of other laws or legal bases, on the basis of the information shown in the business books and the census at the end of the accounting period, an annual accounts covering the balance sheet, with explanations including a description of the consumption of net surplus income over past accounting periods, an annex to the profit statement of the company during the accounting period. However, the profit from membership and contributions from members are also covered in the statement of profit. The company must disclose the latter’s value in the explanatory notes to the profit statement, which means that, in addition to the records of paid memberships, it can also attach an annual report from which it can be determined on the basis of the disclosure of the value of the revenue from the membership, whether the members listed in the record have actually paid the membership fee or not. If I simplify, our amendment to the coalition means that we have reduced that it will not be necessary for the institutions to have three employees, but two employees who will have a sixth level of education instead of the seventh level of education and that membership will not only have to be paid through transaction accounts, but will be able to pay them as it has been in the offices of societies, at general assemblies or at any other event. From the debate on the Infrastructure Committee, when we discussed the law, we listened to NGOs. Since we know not only how to listen to them, but we have also heard, we have already tabled an amendment to the committee, with which we have also, according to Forbition, told us that we have resolved about 80 to 90% of NGOs with the amendments tabled. It is said that the fact cited by some both in the media and in the debates is not true. In the end, only one or two institutions may have problems, but there is no Greenpeac among them, as one of the colleagues heard today. Therefore, it does not argue that the proposed law will prevent non-governmental organisations from operating without hearing that they will not be able to participate in the proceedings. That's not true. Those who want to do so will be able to do so. As I have already said on the committee, the amount of membership payments is not legally limited and can also be one cent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have a replica. Mrs. Sukich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u122	Yes, thank you. Look, this is an incredible con. “We believe that we are proposing this amendment,” you write yourself, “that it makes sense to establish a parallel and also to establish comparable conditions in the field of nature conservation, requiring two persons with a sixth degree of education.” Now we can ask ourselves, are you being a fool or are you so proud? Only those two are possible. Article 30 of the Environmental Protection Act provides that a burden-bearing agent which must obtain an environmental permit must have at least one person employed with a sixth level of education. And who is the cause of the burden that must obtain this environmental permit? This is, of course, a company that carries out a gainful activity. So they have one person with a sixth degree of education, but a non-governmental organization, according to your grace, should now still have two persons with a sixth degree of education. In fact, what is the difference between the burden agent and the non-governmental environmental organisation? The burden factor is a profitable company, it has money, and it does not need to have employees more than one person. But some non-governmental organization that works in the public interest, which is not profitable, but is a non-profit organisation, must have two people, if not, goodbye, there is nothing left to look for in the proceedings. You, a respected coalition, compare Magno with the Institute of Natural Protection Research and Education, and in a way that should have the institution for environmental research and education of two persons with the sixth degree, Magna, a large corporation, for example, could have one based on this super logic of yours when you are so good and so non-militant and even friendly to the environment and in fact even the most capital. Respected and respected, stop deceiving us and throwing sand into our eyes with some of your corrections to the catastrophic amendment proposed by the SNS, which is not actually the SNS, but is in fact the ministers of the amendment, his wish. Minister, as you have done in construction matters with Article 42, you are now working for you, this business is being handled by the SNS, which, of course, is being treated by the coalition kindly, as the distinguished colleague of the Udovč said. And now I've told you what that means. So, there's still going to be a nature-protection organisation that has to have two employees, with a sixth rate. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Your time has run out for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u124	That's my message. It's a mishap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Robert Polnar is given the floor and Mr Robert Pavšič is being prepared. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! There are few matters that are politically decided and that these decisions have no different effects on individuals and groups. This present problem of distribution of benefits and costs of political decisions is the main reason why it is extremely difficult to determine what public interest is. The same applies to the acquisition of the status of an organisation for action in the public interest. There is no standardised test to determine what the public interest is. This is always a matter of discussion, of different interpretations and of consensus on what is in the public interest. Is State ownership a public interest? Take, for example, public goods. Are they in the public interest? What are public goods? These are goods that can be used by all and are therefore not exclusive and competitive in use and consumption. However, their production costs, and it is also known to whom it causes them. A taxpayer. It is possible that all taxpayers have the same benefit from public goods, so each of them is particularly interested in the public interest at the same time. However, it is possible that interests are in no way harmonised, which means that the tax system should be in line with individual interests for the consumption of public goods, as well as with the necessary investments to ensure them. The public interest is therefore the sum of the correct and valid individual interests. Instead of the definition that the public interest is any benefit in which the whole company is involved, it is better to pursue certain business analogys in activities that we can artificially confirm that they are in the public interest. Here I am referring to infrastructure, health care, social policy measures, state security, justice, education and special services such as drinking water supply, waste water treatment and fire protection, waste management and so on. These are areas that, you might say, traditionally do not doubt that they are in the public interest. However, we also know that certain actions not to say usurpation in these areas are not necessarily in the public interest, so sometimes there are requirements to privatise some of these transactions in their specific work. The fact that certain programmes can satisfy specific interests does not mean that they cannot be in the public interest of all members of the public. For each member of the public, regardless of his or her particular interests, the economic development of the country is good if it increases the standard of living of all citizens, and it cannot do so for all alike. Large investments, state and private, are in the public interest. We will hire the unemployed, we will revive the dead economic activities, which will lead to an increase in the size of the economy throughout the country, an increase in the standard of living for all and for every and every community's well-being as a whole. These are the arguments on which the proponents intervene and are right. The following elements are essential when deciding on public interest. In my opinion there are five: who is the proposer that there is a matter of public interest, who will be the custodian of public interest in all further proceedings, what is the budget of the public interest, which is the revenue and expenditure in this budget, who is the composition of the public to which the word "public interest" refers, and how the revenue and expenditure will be allocated within a well-defined crowd called "public". The public interest is typical of the state. It would be more just and, above all, cheaper if there was a voluntary negotiated way of coordinating public with individual interests, but we know that this is not feasible. Therefore, there are procedures whereby individual interests, after the use of public goods, are aligned with the public interest and its fulfilment. This is the advantage of democratic decision-making because it gives legitimacy to the criteria of redistribution. There can be no room inside such a way for imperatives imposed by groups of self-sufficient people who represent no one's opinion but their own. What, though, is the nature of the public interest that cannot motivate and mobilise even 50 people for its programmes of public interest? And then it happens that a group of people, smaller than the number of fingers on both hands, can also stop the construction of an important infrastructure facility for a certain period of time. They say it's democratic. In fact, this is nothing more than convincing evidence in favor of the one who has come to the point that democracy is nothing more than a synonym for anarchy. Ladies and gentlemen! Both the theoretical consistency of its clarification and the clarity and credibility of action and the search for solutions are lost in the confusion of the changing health and economic crisis. We are increasingly turning around in a vicious circle, which is why it stands out as an imperative to stop the competition in the new Slovenian “stepidary” symbolism. We're all up against everything, and no one's up for it anymore. Everyone would save themselves at the expense of others, but at the same time we are confused by the misunderstanding of our own changing interests and preferences, and we do not know whether what we want is even realistic. The central problem remains the political balance of economic contradictions, the political sustainability of economic exits from the crisis we are facing. The common denominator of all these political transfers of economic responsibility to others is the moral hazard of this crisis. Moral gambling means that the interests of the community are hidden by the interests of individual groups or individuals, that the community settles their accounts and their private sins. The real public interest is that Slovenia, regardless of the composition of the current government, has the political capacity at any moment to identify and consolidate public interest. In other words, political decision makers at all levels of personal benefit work in the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. First, we have Mr Šiška's procedural proposal, then Mrs Sukič's replica, and then he also gets the floor of the Minister. Mr. Shisko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u128	Chairman, thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that Members should stop deceiving citizens and citizens, that the SNS has not tabled an amendment, but that it is on the initiative of the SDS. I'm gonna say it again, like I said on the board. I personally, Dušan Šiško, at the hearing session, asked everyone: Lebnu, Zajc, Visiak what they thought about NGOs. I asked the President of the Government a question. He answered, too. Mrs Sukič, start reading the Members' questions and follow what is said by one of the Members of the National Assembly, but not only to meddle what suits you, and you will tell me and then laugh at me out there. Please warn her not to abuse SNS clients for such things. If you can't reconcile with any client, from the previous government, when everyone had to ask you, to the present, you want to be what, again above all, we're not like we on the committee that we're satellites, we're not satellites. Therefore, I ask you to apologize or stop deceiving people that the Slovenian National Party is supporting anyone here. We work for citizens and citizens. The reason for all this, you know, was that fish when you told me that the court had stopped the construction of the hydropower plant. Who put that in court? It's not like there's a Mariana Sharca rule. Non-governmental organizations that you support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Shisko. I did not now see this as a procedural proposal to discuss the use of the Rules of Procedure. As Chair, it cannot interfere with the substantive debates of Members, although we have recently recorded a different practice in this place, and I will not use it, so also in this place just to warn you that the second time you request a word for a procedural proposal, you also have a procedural proposal regarding the use of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Sukich has a signed-in replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u130	I'd like to replicate the statement. Dear colleague Polnar, you were wondering about the public interest budget. Have you ever wondered what the final account of the destroyed environment will be? [[advertising from the hall]] I listened to you very well, please. Then you were talking about groups of self-sufficient people. Who are these groups of self-sufficient people? We are talking here about NGOs that have already acquired a status in the past to act in the public interest. Many of them are internationally relevant, highly reputable NGOs, and all of these will now somehow emerge from these procedures, with some conditions that should apply two years ago. Is that democracy? Is this a democracy that you're making up terms to go back? Of course, that's not democracy. You're talking about democracy, which is synonymous with anarchy. For moments here in the National Assembly, as things have been going on lately, yes, I agree, we're already close to anarchy. But democracy has its own framework, we know what it means. Among other things, it also means the participation of citizens and citizens, as well as NGOs, who are guardians and external monitors of what politics does. Politics is not its own purpose, and we cannot rely on politics to always be the one who will really keep all the standards that we have acquired. That is why we also have external independent monitors, observers. And this role is played by NGOs. So please stop fooling around with all sorts of fictions. The fact is that you are lowering environmental standards and also lowering democratic standards if you adopt such a law with these amendments. If you accept the basic, transposition of the directive, but there is another song. It is not by any means a directive as it is. The directive did not see this coming, what you are now making up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I would like to start by thanking Mr Pollnar for his debate, because I think it is right for a lot of people to print it in this magnetogram and then read it again. Superficial listening does not leave the right attitude to what has been said. I think he's got the point. However, I would like to hear about the information that came wrong again from the Member of the Left, who was discussing Greenpeace, that it also did not meet the conditions for it to be a non-governmental organisation acting in the public interest. Greenpeace is not even in the register of NGOs acting in the public interest, but one of its satellites is called the Future of the Society for the Protection and Conservation of the Natural Environment. See, interestingly, membership is zero, source of funding Greenpeac in 2018 242 000 euros for labour costs. Then you probably understand the public interest it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Robert Pavšić, Mr Rudi Medved is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u134	Let politics work in the public interest. That was the end of me hearing, and I absolutely agree with that. At least we should. But money can't be eaten, breathe or drink, but it helps if you have it, but if you have something to buy. And the public interest is the country, we've heard. Yes, in an ideal world, the public interest of the state is certainly far from reality and far from the truth. That is why we have so much legislation that this so-called public interest can be blurred. This legislation has caused us to have a lot of affairs, including environmental ones. There's so much in the public interest. Any radical systemic change in the sense of some common sense is further doomed to failure. I've seen it and you'll live. Therefore, today we are dealing with the so-called triviality, as it is said, do not simplify it to just one group, today appointed by Minister Vizjak. If we have on one side NGOs who are trying to preserve nature, no matter whose satellite they are, because you are not a Greenpeac financier, but are financed more or less by donations from all people, they also represent our interests. If, on the one hand, we have NGOs trying to preserve nature and, on the other hand, spatial projects, it is certainly necessary to balance this, but the question is whether this is the result of the actual actions of NGOs or whether it is the result of a very complex system that this country has set up. Anyone who has ever smelled any local government knows exactly what I'm talking about, OPPN, OPPN, Arso. If it is necessary for the project to change the OPPN, we know that we are 10 years old and there are not many NGOs here. And that belongs directly to your interference. And what do we do today? How will we expose those who are loud in maintaining all our common good, not how we are actually going to solve this problem systematically? My apologies, Minister, for the last time I told you, you are the first defender of the environment and nature in Slovenia set up by the state, the electorate and the National Assembly, but unfortunately you are not acting that way. When we're talking about a militant rhetoric about lowering standards, yeah, I don't know what else to say. Today, in front of your house where you operate you had peaceful Balkan River Defence protesters sitting on the ground, no one wanted anything, they prevented, say, physical access to your premises, they protested peacefully. But the response was militant. The police came and took them away. Well, that seems right to you, but I find this completely unacceptable in the 21st century and 2020. Shame on you! And please, President, warn your colleagues. May they give me peace when I speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u135	Yes, I agree. Colleagues from the SDS, this is now the third such intervention between Members' debates, so I ask for some peace. Go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u136	These people protested peacefully, and a few days ago, we saw a guard walk into the police station. But they were also quietly fed. By taking one of them away and not the other. So it's probably just an ideological image or an ideological omen, and then someone can do what they want, and someone doesn't need it. We all know how big projects are being implemented in this country. After predetermined routes, terrain, even if it turns out to be very clear that they would be more suitable elsewhere. Where are the elite neighborhoods being built? Where are companies that have a proven impact on the environment being built? On the best agricultural land, in an unspoiled nature. That's what you should be defending in the first place, Mr. Secretary. You are personally the Minister of Environment and Space. When I come to my table to propose amendments to the law, which will actually set this, without being left to the mercy and mercy of some bureaucratic procedure and bureaucrats who decide which opinion is actually important, which is not important, or what role all state agencies play in this process, I do not understand you until then. When he tells his colleague Šiško that they have tabled – yes, you have tabled an amendment, only as the minister defends it, how the coalition defends it, it is clear to everyone whether you will be offended or not that this matter has been coordinated. You've been making excuses for some fish, Desus, how they're going to make it possible to develop in some kind of natural sound. If we look through some prism of common sense, we know what balanced development means. Even if NGOs are excluded from this process. Let us not now talk about how the SMC justified its decision to support this amendment. A bid on terms, membership, and some bookkeeping nebulosis, all for an apology, how can SMC today support this amendment. We've had a whole bunch of NGOs back here on the board. They also agreed that legislation should be renewed, rewinded, updated. There were several people in front of the door of Parliament who wanted only to listen to them and to make something constructive in this area, not to rule them out. That's the easiest thing to do. The easiest thing to do is cut off, we solved the problem. Yeah, we solved the problem for today, maybe tomorrow. But I'm worried about what happens to the generations that come after us. I know that this amendment is going to be a smooth vote, but we're not going to be quiet. Also, people who have so far spoken out loud that this is wrong will not be silent. And now to refer to some kind of militancy, which is not worthy of you, Minister, instead of taking them in front of them, we have agreed, because this amendment can be accepted at any time if it makes sense. Unfortunately, he doesn't have one today.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The replica is first reported by Mrs. Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u138	There is only one brief response to the debate of a fellow Member. Not only did you take the very peaceful protestors with the marks today, but the same coalition of the same government is speaking to the guards peacefully and does not take them anywhere. With guards paraded along the border and uniformed as if they were part of it, they're actually a paramilitary unit. They are debated in a calm manner and not taken away by a stamp. So much for militancy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u139	Mrs Sukič, this is not a replica, you have not discussed this in your debate. Let's hold off another time and wait for the next round of applications. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u140	I just want to give you an explanation. This is more than a fight for the interests of these NGOs. I didn't even know, but you told me here in Parliament that he was protesting today before the Balkan River Defence Ministry of the Environment. The Balkan River Defence does not even have the status of a non-governmental organisation acting in the public interest. Today, however, we are discussing an article that discusses who will have this status after a new one. I don't know why they're fighting you — or for foreign rights or what? It is a policy, my dears, that is the obvious continuation of some protests just like that. I would believe that if there was a non-governmental organisation there, which we are actually restricting under a new right to protest, but this organisation today does not meet these conditions, it is not on the list today when they are very kind to the conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mrs Sukič has the replica, but I said earlier that you did not talk about it in your debate so that the replica could not be in place.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u142	I'm sorry, I'm gonna replicate directly or [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u143	No, it's a replica, Mrs. Sukič, if you were misunderstood, but not to replicate the Minister's debate. Please wait for the next round of applications and you will be in the debate. The next one has a replica of Mr Pavšič, who spoke about the topic discussed by the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let us separate one point today: whether public interest is the right to express its opinion or whether public interest is a means of demonstrating legal interest. On one occasion, I may even believe you, but on the other, I definitely don't. If the organization has no status in the public interest, do we have to give it a clue or what? Because that's how I understood you. We are talking here about legal interest and public interest. You would now rob all those who do not have a status in the public interest of legal interest. That's what you're gonna do today. That they're gonna be loud, but they can't take it from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Rudi Medved has the floor and then Mr Alexander Reberšek is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Vice President. In my debate, the distinguished minister saw elements of a militant vocabulary. Actually, I don't know if I can even express myself militarily. But now I've been waiting a little longer for the debate, so I've somehow prevented myself from reacting militarily, Minister, to your performance. Above all, where I would like to be connected so little between the lines with these protests by NGOs. I really have nothing to do with these protests and somehow implied that when I was the Minister of Public Administration, I also dealt with NGOs, of course. I really did. But I built a relationship with NGOs, with a very wide range of NGOs, long before I came to the Ministry of Public Administration, which is at the local level. And on the Zagorje case, you know Zagorje at Savi and Zasavje. In the case of Zagreb, I could tell you a number of stories about how great we are with individual NGOs and how many good projects we have done together. So I brought this relationship of conversation, dialogue with everyone, including NGOs, because it's been with me my whole life. And it usually comes back well with good, and from here this relationship with NGOs also comes from my period of ministry. Of course, under no circumstances do I have any interest at this time in encouraging non-governmental organisations to protest in any way. It is somehow understood that NGOs, and a lot of the unrest that caused these things among them, are therefore also militant because they do not agree because they simply disagree. And as you can see, not only are the three from the inn who gather here and there, those who disagree, but there are quite a critical mass of NGOs. I don't think if anyone disagrees, that's why they're still not militant. But I personally do not see such a serious problem in whether to change the criteria for this time natural and then environmental, and many other NGOs and how to change them. Yeah, well, maybe it's time for something to change. Maybe it's time for something to change. Representatives of NGOs were present at the Committee's meeting on this subject, and they themselves said that there were also non-governmental organisations or groups in this area that could easily adjust. It's like they've been told a lot of times that they're guessing. Yes, they also admitted to being like that among them. But the problem is somewhere else. You know, I will always defend this, I am, and I will be in the future – legislation is simply not written like that. It's not written like that. The laws shall not be written about those to whom they relate, without any contact, dialogue with them. It just doesn't work. But here we have essentially now, in this case, when we talk about environmental organisations, a little here in this law, a little in that law, and then we're going to have a little bit more in this law, just like we're going to apply. All by some quick emergency procedures, all of it. And this, you see, revolutionizes those – because many more, you will revolutionize many in this way. Today we are talking about NGOs, and then we will be talking about something else in the future. It is simply unacceptable that such a way of making and adopting laws is unacceptable. This is simply a government approach, not a state approach. It's the owner's. We'll change that without asking anyone. Why are we doing this? Because you can. Because we're in power and we can do it. And it revolutionizes these people to go to protests and, of course, they are immediately militant. Anyway, if they're protesting, they're left-handed anyway. Now that you've mentioned Arso, there's a new thesis that Arso is actually perfectly fine, super, expedient, but NGOs are the ones that pull the brakes here. I'm gonna tell you right now, and I'm not gonna go into specifics. For example, building cycling paths across Slovenia is one of the major projects. The current perspective is somehow because we ourselves did not know how to choose the priority axes properly, and now, although there is now a bit of a delay, we are all building cycling paths everywhere. That's basically the main project. And what problems investors have here, as a rule, are the congregations, right with Ars. Right with Ars. No NGOs. You will say: “Yes, of course, because it is a cycling track, then NGOs, like left-wing cyclists, do not get involved in this.” I'm a bit of a cartoonist. But not the incompetence of Arsa's bureaucracy to connect just like this with non-governmental organizations that block projects, so Arso is the poor guy with his hands tied. You know a lot of projects they've been involved with and you know Arso very well. And you know there aren't many investors that fall out of their hands when they have to start fighting the same Ars. Maybe the only way to end this is to talk about how to adopt this legislation. I'm actually in the middle of something like this. Not because it is perfectly legitimate that in some dialogue, in some constructive atmosphere, criteria can also be changed for both NGOs and for many, no one is untouchable, but it is a way. And today you received a letter from Green 10 to the government, which is the top 10 environmental organisations in Europe – and we didn't write a dispatch to get them to write it back. I've read this a little bit before, where they don't talk about what the criteria for NGOs in Slovenia should be, or whether they should be in some society of 50 or 49. What if there's 49? When we talked about these criteria, you know, it was a little bit over the thumb, we found that the criteria were such and such, after raising the voice of some of those non-governmental organizations, where it was a little bit distasteful that they wouldn't be there, and then we make the exceptions, if you don't, because they don't meet the criteria, but they should be there, because it's already untasteful if they don't. But these 10 largest environmental organisations in Europe are concerned – and I am now quite recently, so I have not taken a stand from them now, I have my position on the writing of laws long ago – because it takes place without any public consultation, without regular procedures. This is a worrying practice. In this case, when we are dealing with such an area that you are obviously taking more than removing administrative obstacles, I think that, in general, non-governmental organisations might, however, be able to see differently from just removing administrative barriers, that the simple way is not right. It's not the right way. Like I said, it's government, not state. And believe me, Minister, as well as the other representatives of this government, wherever they are, you will, of course, have problems, because as you begin, you will probably continue. When we talk about public interest, it is also about public interest that we should decide without the public, because what will happen and what the public has to do with it. We will also decide on the public interest, but what does the public have to do with it? And that's the unifying policy. To unite, to unite so long, to unite all against one another. In this way you combine everything against yourself and then you wonder if anyone comes to protest, but in your opinion they are an expression of militancy. This is all I think is important within this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you very much. He asked the Minister of Mag for a word. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. In his speech, the MP and the former Minister of Public Administration mentioned Ars's accumulation, the placement of cycling routes, and so on, to remind me. It is quite interesting to listen to the former minister, who has been in power for a year and a half, and in fact now reminds me that I have been here for two months and I have begun to settle matters with certain measures that everything is bureaucratic. But what did you do when you were in a position not to be bureaucratic? The current government has started with certain measures, and by the way, the PSC Regulation or the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation also lays down other measures, which are already visible, and one is now, not least at the table, which will be fully de-birocraticized by this system, which is impossible and to which you point.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica, fellow Member Bear? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u150	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, I agree with you. You know, even you, now that you haven't been in the government for a while, you'll see, too, when you start to be a real battle with bureaucratic mills inside this state administration. You too will see what you can do in such a short time. It's just my answer to your performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Replica is a response to the fact that someone didn't understand you. Besides, you're having a debate. You can check in. There's no problem. Mr. Pashovich, the replica. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Minister, I have already told you in my debate, but you probably have not heard that specific systemic changes in this country and in this constellation and in such a policy are already doomed to failure if they are sound in mind. My friend Bear told you the same thing. After two months, we do not expect any systemic changes from you, but much more than just agreeing with the statement of a problem. And now you're saving him very partially. This is not good, it is not positive, and it cannot go on like that – especially because of the way. Not even because it's not your amendment, but you're the one who's insolvent with all four of you. And if you watch the video, you acted very aggressively, too, when you were defending this amendment, you almost screamed at us. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u153	Mr. Pavšič, where did the Minister not understand you? Where were you misunderstood?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u154	At first, when he was talking about not being a minister. He was the Minister of Public Administration. And I've already made this point in my debate, and apparently the minister didn't hear it. So this is a perfectly justified replica, Mr President. I don't know if you listened to my debate because you weren't in here. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u155	I hope the Minister understands what you're saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u156	Now this was not appropriate because you interrupted me, but you did not listen to my debate, and in his reply, the minister mentioned me as well as his colleague Bear.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u157	Mr. Pashovich, I listened to you. But to be mentioned, there's no reason for a replica. The reason for the replica is that someone didn't understand you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u158	And that's what I pointed out, and I said [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u159	I hope he understood you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u160	Then can I explain my replica or can't I explain it? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u161	You can, of course, only the basis is misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u162	What is the problem now, presidents? You agree with me and you reach out to me at the same time. I'm done talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u163	Okay, thanks. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u164	Yeah, just a brief explanation because you're talking about a lack of systemic action. I was very clear in my presentation, which was some three months ago, and I announced by the end of this year or already in the autumn in Parliament three system laws: a renewed construction law, a renewed law on space regulation and a renewed law on environmental protection. We are now taking action because of the epidemic because we want to launch some important investments and speed up procedures. So my work is a mix of both – to respond to crisis situations and at the same time to systematically regulate legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Member Alexander Reberšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I say that we must not throw all civil society in the same basket in the field of environmental protection. I believe that what initiatives are very narrowly targeted, but on the other hand we cannot say that every civil initiative is a blockade on development. We have, say, the Eco Circle from Zasavje and Uroš Macerla, who with long insistence stopped pollution in the valley of Zagorje. Let's ask ourselves what would happen if it wasn't for them or if it wasn't for Urosh Macerl. Lafarge would probably still be burning dirty waste, hundreds of tons of waste a day, more than 16 types of waste, nine of which were classified as hazardous waste. The residents would still be breathing dirty air today. I'm sure of that. I come from Savinja Valley, where there is no hearing to preserve the best agricultural land the construction barons would want to build on long and long. Because of this stupid placement of the third development axis, they want to build 121 hectares of the best agricultural land with a credit rating of 60 to 90. Unfortunately, no argument in the Savina Valley depends, so tell me what is left of us, that we do not build the best agricultural land, and why we do not want to build where it would be significantly faster, significantly cheaper, and, above all, we would do significantly less environmental damage because we would take the road down the already existing corridor. Instead of restricting environmentalists, let us think in this direction about how to speed up procedures in these complaints. Let the courts and the administrative authorities decide more quickly and, above all, let them decide as a matter of priority. Dialogue with the local community is also important. If we look only at our case from Savinja Valley, I believe that if the planners of the route then came to us locals and if there were more hearing and desire to build faster and cheaper, I am sure that we would find a solution and the Korosians would have this fast road long ago. I cannot support all this change in the Nature Conservation Act, but also because I appreciate the Slovenian farmer, self-sustainment and will not be the key to taking away people's voices when it comes to nature and the environment. Let us remember something very good: We did not inherit the earth from our ancestors, but we borrowed it from our craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The list of applicants has been exhausted. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there's still interest. The application procedure shall be carried out. Two reported. The first one gets the word of Ambassador Violet Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u168	I have gladly applauded my predecessor, Alexander Reberšk, because if you speak and, above all, always stress the farmer and also the will of you from the countryside, you must not fully build and think about the environment as if now it is the property of this coalition. As the predecessor of New Slovenia said, we only have this land on a vessel and we will have to hand it over to the explorers. How are you gonna tell them to eat that paper, the euros, or the shares? And that's all you want to know. And this, I'm sorry, is unacceptable at a time when the whole of Europe, even America, is thinking about a green new deal, green new deal. You with a medieval mind to save no one if you build a healthy environment, a river, a fertile land, to save someone, a corporation maybe, who'll get rich here with cheap labor and bring profits to tax havens. This is totally unacceptable! Minister Vizjak, you say we have a crisis situation, we want to save them with investments. You're dealing with the problem completely wrong, even because you're the minister of the environment. And you act like you're the Minister of Economy. Let's decide once that you're here to protect the environment. Of course this is your amendment. The deer put it in. But, I'm sorry, the fact that Jelinčič is for sale has already been known by the previous government, the Sharčev government, as well as Janševa now knows. In short, you can't do the same all the time and expect different results. And the worst part is that your coalition is destroying the rule of law, because this proposed regime is unconstitutional. And that's all we have to talk about today. That it was unconstitutional, you were already warned by our legal and legal service. It works against sustainable development. Here I hear a colleague from Desus, my God, if at least they were quiet, given that they support illegal and unconstitutional projects, but no, they even philosophy about what is of public interest to anyone. The people of God, the public interest of all of us here is air, water, land. Is there any doubt about that? I really hope not. And yes, I'm going to touch peaceful demonstrators sitting in front of the Ministry, your Ministry, taken away by a stamp, said in a violent way, they weren't violent, they were taken away violently because they warned your ministry about the importance of the environment for all of us. On the other hand, 50 guards in uniforms are stepping into the police station. Where was the mattress to take them? What kind of country do we live in? Today, we are in a position that Slovenia has fallen in the eyes of the European Union, has completely fallen into respect for human rights, environmental standards and has grown very much in impatience, paramilitary formations and so forth. The restriction on the functioning of NGOs also affects the constitutionally protected right to assembly and association referred to in Article 42 of the Constitution. I see that the Minister doesn't care what the opposition member says because he doesn't care about the arguments. You know, I'm really worried about this relationship. Yesterday, President, you were there when the Minister of Culture rose up and left before I finished the question. That's amazing. I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u169	Before you completed your procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u170	This Article guarantees, namely Article 42 of the Constitution, "provide two independent and important human rights to peaceful assembly and to a free association which is already based on the principle of democracy contained in Article 1 of the Constitution" for the development of a democratic and plural society. I quote the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. And we need to take it into account, colleagues and colleagues. We always did, until the moment the current government takes no account of anyone and nothing. We've come in one period, I don't know, I'm not going to name him right now. 73. Article 73 of the Constitution is also intended to protect the living environment and cannot go beyond Article 73 of the Constitution, which protects the natural heritage as a fundamental value of the Slovenian rule of law. Here, in particular, I would like to stress that the functioning of NGOs in the field of nature protection can also give effect to constitutionally defined rights and the protection of legal value, which is the basis for the permissive and socially beneficial functioning of these entities in their own public interest and not only in the common interest of their members. What is the public interest? That NGOs are doing what policy is supposed to do. And that's a shame, you know. The policy should protect the interests of citizens and protect the constitutional and legal arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia. But here, for some interests, I don't know who, we've experienced that they were only writing laws for one corporation that came, Magna, 100 hectares of first-class agricultural land was for her, for the painting room. We objected to that in the Levica. Then SMC pretends, and that's really hard to listen to. You know, the extension of the environmental permit was lifted by the SMC-led government, and that was in the previous mandate. Some of us tried very hard to prevent this, but this frog cooked very slowly. Very slowly, and now we're here where we are. Problem is, they talk one thing, they work the other one. And everyone else is looking at themselves, you know. The immoral will see immoral people everywhere, the corrupt will see corruption. Minister, what do you read to the NGOs? You say – who finances them but they work for free? Who needs to finance you to defend the values you live for, to defend water, air, nature? The second question is – who finances those who advocate capital? We know well that some of the congresses are here as well as in an economic exhibition where cars are advertised to airplanes, and that the sponsorship contributions are very high. This is the sale of our country and our environment. And we should never have agreed to that. SMC said that you would now help environmentalists, because you even hear them, not just listen. Please, I don't know if it's more cynicism or arrogance. The website of the same party contains: the rule of law, responsibility for itself, human and environment, justice and ethical standards, sustainable development, human dignity, social and economic security, tolerance, freedom, mutual respect and intergenerational reciprocity and solidarity. None of this is in this amendment. Break it all. And this bill, I must stress, was sent by the Government in the original proposal to the National Assembly on the basis of SMC Minister Simon Zajc. The purpose of the law under consideration was to quote Minister Zajc: “All cooperation in nature conservation procedures will enable NGOs in all legal forms to represent the interests of nature conservation in legal and judicial proceedings.” The point was on everyone. Now you are going to defend this unacceptable new form with some amendments, where you will give some more rights. You know, it's unacceptable to talk about a false dilemma: either development or environment. Today, in the 21st century, we must all think in a sustainable way. Everybody. This is what you are reminded of, young people for climate justice, and this is what the NGOs remind you of, and I will stress once again, what this Parliament should do, what this government should do, is to protect the public interest. And let there be no doubt as to what the public interest is. Our healthy living environment, which is the first constitutional category without which there is nothing. Not business, not the health of the population, not our lives. I wish that our apprentices could look our grandchildren in peace of mind and say that we helped them preserve their living space for them as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word has been sent by Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. 26. 4. In 1986, Chernobyl happened. A few days later we walked through this love of Slovenia, it rained on us, and no one told us anything. And the question of what we inherited back then. Later, there were so many people in the Republic Market that it was difficult to find a place in this crowd in protest against such practices. However, it was not until 11 June 1989 that a green party, Green Slovenia, was established. The president of this party then took the Greens to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and today there is virtually nothing left of the Greens. The unparliamentary party lives and sounds a little. Our Slovenia is beautiful, nature and creative people are its advantage. The highest material values are clean air, clean drinking water, and unpolluted land. From here on out, we can also talk about upgrading and material prosperity. Nature, of course, has to be protected, biodiversity. NGOs also play an important role because, as I said, we do not have such institutional parties in Parliament. However, we also have various elements in our electoral programmes. NGOs are needed, not only in nature, but generally in society, to give texture to social events. Slovenia devotes a lot of money to NGOs. If I read by the center of the network of Slovenian NGOs, in 2018 the companies received 618 million and something else, they seduce 291 million and something else, other institutions 8 million, total almost 918 million, almost a billion. From this title, I would also expect a strong role to be played by NGOs in the field of nature protection. We've either experienced it or we haven't. Maybe sometimes too much, maybe too little. The problem is, therefore, when their urgently needed contribution is diminished or, on the contrary, excessive. If we look at whether we are driving in Germany or France, we see windfields, wind power plants that create clean energy, but in Slovenia we have only two. Normally, we cannot have such fields, such wind power plants, because our terrain configuration is not so appropriate. But only two? What lobbying prevents us from creating more clean energy? Or are birds in Slovenia more afraid than in France and Germany? I don't know. These NGOs in such a large number have escaped in Kemis, Vrhnika, Lafarg, where small individuals fight for the right of clean air. The worst case is channel C0 in Ljubljana. I would expect at least five thousand activists, on foot or on bicycles, all would be welcome when the sewers were buried in a lake of drinking water of one of the highest quality drinking water in this part of Europe. There is almost even a Bohinj lake of drinking water under Ljubljana. Through this drinking water is planned and to a greater extent is assigned a channel through which the sewers from Medvod and Vodice will go to Ljubljana's cleaner. Completely unnecessary and completely contrary to the principles applicable to sewage, which should be cleaned as close as possible to the formation. But no, neither this nor the custom channel, so this is the direction of the channel, not appropriate. Where are the naturalists? Why don't they sit there in the crowd today and yesterday and all these days, why are they just sitting in front of the Ministry of Environment and Space today, why aren't they there? They're missing. Which lobby is that supposed to be missing? Many forests are still uncleaned after the acorn a few years ago. Where are the NGOs in nature protection? Electric cars, batteries, electricity - where will it come from? We don't know, it's not a good TEC, it's not a good nuclear power plant, it's not a good power plant. What do we do? I think professional thinking is important. As the Minister has said before, we have professional services that need to rethink and rewind projects. Even in all the projects that have been discussed today, it is necessary to consider whether they are well founded or need some correction. I believe and trust that big state investments must be made in order for the economy to start up, but they must also be thoroughly reviewed. I hope and I believe Minister Vizjak will be able to do that. I know that in the very core of our consciousness, what is most important - life values - is a healthy environment. If we have the democracy we have, we also have a public debate in which each individual can be involved and make his comments. If we could, after Chernobyl, without having one non-governmental organisation, in a dictatorship where the parties were not allowed at all and where mergers were only allowed under certain conditions dictated by the party, if we could then gather and protest against the consequences of Chernobyl, I think that today people must also have the opportunity in democracy and have it in public debate when there are open plans when the laws are drawn up and that they can comment on this. I am sure that this process will continue, even though the conditions for the establishment and operation of NGOs will be somewhat sharper, but these NGOs are likely to do their work even more qualitatively. I hope that they will respond to what is really necessary and what are the problems in Slovenia today. One of the ones I'm alerting is channel C0. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Replica, Member of Violet Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you. Mrs. Boxer, that's very nice of you to say. I just want to tell you that you misunderstood and that's why I'm replicating. There is a green party in Slovenia. We're eco-socialists. On the contrary, the Left is asking for peace in the Chamber if the Chairman will not remind you. [[…]] The left came from the Sustainable Development Party - TRS. You know well that the green party then fell to the left and right factions. The left faction is the TRS, which later merged with the Initiative for Democratic Socialism. And we are eco-socialists because we firmly believe that there is no ecology within neoliberalism, which follows unlimited economic growth regardless of environmental standards. And here we are today, talking about neoliberalism, which the environment has no interest in. And, you know, there's a lot of stuff on the client program. No one reads them, unfortunately, from the electorate, but we should, because then we could hold them to the word, what they wrote down and what they didn't do. And, you know, when you mention a dictatorship where the party allowed me, I don't know, obviously we lived in different possible periods or different countries, we always responded and started with Krupa in the 1980s in the White Krajina, where Iskra Semič with capacitors always polluted the source of Krupa, and we were very loud and already opposed. [[...]] You know, it puts you right into ideology and dictatorship, and this system, always, in every system, you have to fight for nature and the environment, whether your boss is a neoliberal or a dictator or a socialist. That's a real environmental attitude. I'm glad you reminded us of Chernobyl. It was awful, and I remember that time, but, you know, I'm afraid we're gonna have worse Chernobyls if we don't step together and stop dividing ourselves into lefts and rights when it comes to nature. Nature is of all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I see that there is still an interest in the debate, so I will initiate the application procedure. Four reported. The first one gets the word of Ambassador Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I've been thinking whether I'd respond or not, but in Levica they can't not mention SMC, it's become some sport of theirs. Let's do it. Well, let's do it. I also have a little bit of a reading of the Left programme, but I found inside, say, one of the programming points is that we go to a gradual nationalisation, first of all large companies, financial, I don't know, insurance companies, banks and then, after steps, to even smaller companies. So I don't know, it's, maybe someone agrees, but I believe that a lot of people don't agree, including a lot of people who are a member or supporter of the Left and all those ideas that you advocate for a number of reasons. And I don't think there's any place here to talk about this when we're talking about programs, but I think we're here because of some other point, a question of a fictional dilemma, or development or environment. I think that this is very simple or impossible to solve only from this perspective of how we perceive our society and progress within our society, economic development and so on. Now, if we look at this progress or even manage to keep our standards achieved in a way that needs to be linear, then here we will not solve this dilemma in any other way than by continuing to have to interfere with the environment within which we are. Part of this dilemma can be resolved by new technology, but it needs to be invested. But these things don't happen from today to tomorrow, which I think is clear to everyone here. I don't think there's anyone here who doesn't support all the ideas that young people and less young people are alerting us to, but we all, when we think about these ideas, forget again that it won't happen overnight, that it will be very expensive for our society, for all our subsystems, for the economy, for the country as such, and, above all, that there will be a lot of efforts to do so, a lot of changes. We see already at European Union level that things do not run as fast as we would like, despite the availability of a lot of resources. This paradigm of some linear development has an alternative in some circular economies that we were able to see if we were going to watch a little history, a witness in the ancient Greeks, and there were some inputs from the external environment, and that didn't exactly work out. Unless we dig one hole around Slovenia, we drop some water and then we go some island, but I don't think it's any real alternative, so no Levica, no SMC, no SDS, not this national assembly, and no other government, they won't be able to find any answers from today on this serious dilemma tomorrow. That's why I think there's no point in getting into a fight about who's more or less right. The real question is whether we are ready for these ideals, which we are now raising so high, even what to cancel, that is to say, to lower our standard of living as individuals, and as households, after all, as a country. And my answer is no. I just don't. Because of this will, I feel this willingness only on some declaration level, but when we have to give up on our phones, cars, mobility, quality of stay and so on, then this debate turns in a very different direction. And it's the same when we're talking about the state. We have very high expectations for the country in the field of health, in the field of the economy, what this country must do to ensure that certain subsystems run in the field of education, in the field of social affairs, in the area of the level of certain wages or in certain standards of job protection or employment. And then we're running out of money, or we're just running out of money at some point. All of this requires money, both for our standards within the household and for the standards that we set for ourselves as a state, as the National Assembly. And here this dilemma is very cruel if we want. If we are willing to give up on a personal level to certain goods and certain standards and if we are also willing to do the same at the level of the country, it means that we are no longer so well-intentioned and simply cut them off, then we can also seriously discuss some such environmental policy that will no longer exert such pressure on the environment. Otherwise, all this debate here is very well heard, but in fact, it has very little effect in practice. And speaking of eco-socialists, I was quite disappointed by the fact that a few months ago we had a meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space and we discussed the subject of this remote pipeline, the sewerage of C0 over the aquifer in Ljubljana, but I did not hear much from the Left. If memory doesn't fool me, I don't think there was anyone on the left who would have said anything at the expense of this project. I may be wrong, but I don't think I'm wrong. I remember that it was the end of the week, I think it was Friday afternoon, it was some late hours, but we talked there very well, but Left then, I don't think she took this opportunity to tell anyone else that we can do more in the environmental field. When we talk about what we are and what we are not, let us be correct, let us be open and not judge any action on the sole basis of whether someone is political closer to us or less close to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Replica, Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u178	Thank you. My colleague mentioned Levica, and if I understood correctly, it was like we weren't talking about the aquifer, channel C0. Of course, we not only fought at the city level all the time, but I, too, expressed a very strong and clear position here in Parliament. I stood there and read it right about aquifer C0. So I don't know why you just said that, but that's not true. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Let's move on, on the list of applicants. Member Robert Pavšič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u180	Thank you very much again. My friend Perič said we're talking about environmental policy today. No, we have discussed environmental policy for the last time on the committee, and the consequence of that committee is not to vote on the resolution, on where Slovenia is, where the world is, but to just read the position, why we did not support these resolutions. Without completely any sequence we could support it, we would only tell all citizens and citizens that we have environmental problems, that we have a climate crisis. Today we are talking about an extremely targeted, extremely partial measure that will only touch NGOs that will lose their legal interest at the moment. It's not about ideology, it's about you obviously giving your voice to cut NGO away from projects, and we're already starting to suspect that these projects don't count. And this voice of yours can be excused in a number of ways, the result will be the same, the difference is that one conscience will be hell when they decide and the other not. And when my colleague Škrnjar, who is now gone, cited a whole series of trivialities, because I understand that they are new Members without knowing what we have been dealing with in the last few months. About water C0 we had an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and the party that we are also on this page, also in the Municipal Council of the municipalities of Ljubljana we spoke very loudly about the fact that there is something wrong here. That is why all the questions that Škrinjar has addressed to the National Assembly can be directed directly at the minister he now has here. If I remember correctly, it was a conclusion, and I will read: "22. In November, the National Assembly, at an extraordinary meeting of the Ministry of the Environment and Space, recommended that the construction of the C0 sewerage channel be retained at the foot of Brod to Ježica until documentation and environmental impact assessment were obtained. He was also recommended to check the procedures for placing the pipeline route in the space.” Mr Minister, I am now asking this question to you instead of your representative from your party, because as Minister of the Environment, you have to worry that these decisions are being implemented. Was any of this made or not? And not to throw up responsibility against the NGOs, for they were not supposed to be loud, or even to the parties, that they were not loud, but to anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u181	Thank you very much. He asked the Minister of Mag for a word. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u182	Yes, I must be very clear that the Ministry respected Parliament's decisions and carried out its activities. As far as I know, this project stands at this point, even if I think it will be necessary to draw up an environmental impact assessment, which the investor has avoided so far. So, in fact, not this issue Mrs Škrynjar is going beyond the objective he was aiming at. The aim was to ensure that the projects are such and different for Levi and the opposition parties, for some it is logical and necessary that they are protestors, but for some it is not necessary that they are protestors if they are protestors after all these political parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u183	Thank you very much. First, a replica of Comrade Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u184	Mr Minister, that you explain what the Member of Parliament thought or what I thought was completely unacceptable. I was not talking about the objectives, but about the fact that the Member asked very explicit questions and addressed them to the National Assembly. I've only reflected these questions where they actually belong, and that's to your ministry. And it's nice that you responded to the conclusion of the National Assembly. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, already your predecessor, I didn't want to expose this because you represent an institution here today, you're not Minister Vizjak, but you're Minister of the Environment and Space of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is an institution, it's not a personal status, it's a function. So I ask only that you do not interpret the statements made by your Members or even the members of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Replica, Member Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u186	Dear Minister, this is, look, you're interpreting what we think and so on, what NGOs think – it's not true. The Left is always consistent, regardless of which environmental projects are at stake. We've been consistent with the C0 aquifer, we're consistent with space interventions, in a number of cases. For example, just a few days ago, we were also discussing the acquisition of an integrated permit for the final destabilisation of Plečnik Stadium, for example, which is a cultural monument, but it also touches your area and you will be the one who will eventually make it possible or not as a minister. As far as environmental organisations are concerned, it is not true that in the C0 aquifer they have protested, of course they have, all the years NGOs have been dealing with this problem as well. I know because I was a city councilwoman in the city world, and I know exactly how the meetings were going on and what was going on and what was still going on. And how's it going with us, Mr. Secretary? So that it's already built in advance, when it's part of a route, or let's say a line where the aquifer is going to be going on in this case, let's say it's building in advance, and then it's being forced because it's not even on some piece of water, for example, an environmental assessment, but it's being forced, as far as we're concerned, we're not going to be able to destroy it now, because there's just a little bit of aquifer going on over some other drinking water, we're going to have to have to close our eyes or both. This happens to us in a regular way. And that's what a minister you're responsible for, that you have to prevent, not allow. And then allow in a way that even removes non-governmental organizations that make this a loud and consistent warning. And we are also parties to those who give a loud and consistent warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u187	Thank you very much. First he gets the word Minister Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u188	Your Honor, now you've gone a little over the edge, saying that I, as Minister, have removed some protestors somewhere. This has been done by authorities concerned with public peace and order in this country and not by the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Member Gregor Perič has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u190	Thank you. I'm gonna be a little short. I think that the memory has not yet left me, and in support of this, I will only read a brief excerpt from the minutes of the urgent Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space to substantiate this argument. As I said, 15 November 2019, this was Friday, we started at 5 p.m., at this meeting, when we touched on the SDS's recommendations on the protection of drinking water in the area of the Ljubljana aquifer, there was no and this record says you apologized to the following members and members of the committee: Luka Mesec, Željko Cigler and Nataša Sukič. I don't think there was anyone from the Left who would have worked there. Why you did not participate in this very interesting or for Ljubljana and the wider area also very important topics, otherwise I do not know. I hope it wasn't the only reason he wasn't the right one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall. It's also for my colleagues from the Left. Boštjan Koražija, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u192	Your Honor, thank you for your word. In fact, the environment or nature does not belong to the left or the right, says clean air, clean drinking water, biodiversity, fertile land should never, in fact, be subjected to political omens. We also need to be well aware of this here in the National Assembly. And unfortunately, it's a lot of times that NGOs that we have, and I'll say thank God we have them, that voice of nature that nature doesn't have. Yeah, we're all gonna have to start thinking this way. There is a lot of talk about this European Green Agreement, which I think will also come into use or use at European level with some delay. As we discussed earlier, the environment comes first. In fact, nature, man and animals must always be ahead of capital, not, in fact, allowing capital to destroy our future or at least the future of our craftsmen. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Another final debater in this round, Ambassador Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. The Honourable Minister of Mag. Vizjak, colleagues and colleagues! I apologize for speaking with the mask, maybe who doesn't like it, but I respect the proper order of this country because I love this country. Some may have misunderstood the SARS-COV-2 (COVID-19) Resolution adopted by the Government on 14th this month and have understood that the epidemic has been lifted since 14th this month. No, this decree has the final provision in Article 4: “This decree shall enter into force the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia and shall apply as from 31 May 2020.” Of course, everyone is allowed within the framework of his or her freedom to disregard state rules. I'm just trying to make them. Well, now the very law, which has a truly impressive name, has adopted its first version in 1999: the Nature Conservation Act. Maintaining, therefore, is a process of how we must all, every citizen of this country, preserve nature. I will not assess today's debate, and without offense, it was largely hollow, without the content of this law. Colleagues and colleagues, the aim of the proposed amendments to the Nature Conservation Act is to harmonise Slovenian legislation with European Union legislation, specifically with the Habitats Directive. I went to see her. Remember, in October 2017, the European Commission issued an official reminder for incorrect transposition and non-compliance with the obligations set out in Article 3 and Article 4 and Article 16(1) of Council Directive 92/43/EEC of 21 May 1992 on the conservation of natural habitats and wild animal and plant species. That's the key content. This Directive of 21 May 1992 states the following. The Council of European Communities has adopted the following Directive, I will not be afraid to read it whole, and in this Directive on the conservation of natural habitats and wild animal and plant species, conservation means a series of measures necessary to maintain or restore the favourable state of natural habitats and wildlife populations. Then, in this Directive, natural habitats mean entirely natural or full land or water areas with specific geographical, abiotic and biota characteristics. For the purposes of this Directive, natural habitat types in the interest of the community shall mean those which, in the territory referred to in Article 2, are considered to be at risk of extinction in their natural range of prevalence or have a small natural range of prevalence due to the reduction or limitation of the area itself, etc. For me as a Christian Democrat, nature is a creature. I will protect this creature in accordance with the values that are 2,000 years old and that no one has rejected to this day. Nobody in this coalition, not on the government side or in the National Assembly, has no intention of expelling anyone if they have good intentions in the process in nature conservation measures. Everyone is welcome, every proposal is welcome. Personally, I think that the way anyone acts is interpreted only in the word “stop” or “prohibited” is not a way of cooperating and this is no help to conservation measures. Nature is given to man, and man must preserve it and, of course, has the right to exploit it. All this debate, if I understand correctly, and indeed most of the dust has been raised under the Law on Amendments to the Nature Conservation Act on the adoption of the amendment on the acquisition of the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest in the field of nature conservation. This is now said to be a key issue in the opposition. The opposition and NGOs, i.e. the government and the coalition, seem to want to disable them, which is simply not true. It's some fiction that just doesn't hold. If anyone, then the right-centre governments have always been able to have better dialogue, better cooperation with all actors in each area, with all the factors. Amendments shall only be introduced into a part which speaks of the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest. At first, the conditions got a lot tougher, but the amendments made them a lot easier. We've made them feel better. Including the amendment that we are considering at today's session. Instead of requiring three persons to be employed in a non-governmental organisation with the seventh level of education, we have given her a warning and presentation of an opinion on the parent body by non-governmental organisations to two full-time employees, with a sixth level of education and two years of work experience in this area. Who can correct an interlocutor to the government, parliament, when it comes to preserving nature? Yes, one who has some knowledge of this, in my humble opinion, can help in nature conservation measures. Not just someone who says, stop, stop, stop, and that I'm a little local patriot, banned from building power plants on Mura. Yeah, okay, we're not doing anything in this area, okay? Although there have been laws since 1770 that have defined where mills can be built, specifically from 1770 it was determined that mills can only be placed on rivers, then followed the novel in the early 19th century, so that the mills can also be on streams and so on and so on. It is said that people have long used natural energy potential, which is now said to be no longer allowed. I'm talking hydropotential. True, many NGOs complained about the minimum number of members attending the annual assembly. These are supposed to be 50, but for a serious organisation, and these are quite something in Slovenia, that will not be a problem. Of course, these new proposals only apply to organisations that would like to gain a new status in the public interest. For existing ones who already have this status, it is only a requirement that they convene a congregation and prove their membership within six months. And what's the problem here? What's the problem here? And no one's going to check on the memberships they've collected. We don't have that interest. Therefore, the allegations that NGOs will withdraw from the amendment simply do not. In Slovenia, 28 thousand NGOs are weak according to the data of the umbrella network of NGOs in Slovenia. I'm not going to comment. Large, small, too small or too small, it's a matter of an individual's assessment. However, it is a fact that the number of NGOs increases by about 500 each year. 500 is this year's increase. Where do we end up? Where do we land? What number? I don't know. Given only active organisations, there are still 27,000 of them. I sincerely believe that within these 27,000 organisations there are similar interests and that they could join together and defend nature, so they would be stronger. Finally, we are all proud of our beautiful Slovenia, flora and favo. Of course, we must find a balance between nature conservation and other investment projects. Non-governmental organisations are often wrongly treated as solely disruptors and project breakers, which is not true. We have them in New Slovenia. But as it is said, we do not agree to their action by the principle of stop, forbidden, without arguments, without the possibility of dialogue, with the ultimate. That's not how it works. That's not how it works. It doesn't work on the street. That's not how it works. We need to talk at the table. Many NGOs are struggling with the heart and soul to preserve and study nature. I know quite a few people who do. Of course, there are abuses. Yes, there are abuses and extortion of various NGOs. Today is not the point of the agenda where we can talk long and wide about it, but really long and wide. At this time, when this amendment to the Nature Conservation Act was in Parliamentary procedure, I spoke with many, and I also learned the information that got me, I think, into a bad mood. I couldn't believe that someone on behalf of a non-governmental organization wanted to do a lot of business, so get the money in their pocket and then raise the green flag for some investment, for some project. And it is because of abuse that we want to set the criteria that will give effect to serious organizations that can demonstrate by their constructive work that they are doing good and their nature really cares that nature is their concern. I am pleased that we have also included in the proposal for a law those organizations that have initially fallen out of the law, at least so did the fishing and beekeeping union, the lobster, underwater rescue service and so on, which are otherwise organised. I'm concluding. Because in New Slovenia we want to say, I say to NGOs that want to participate seriously and help them in a sustainable nature-preservation process, so that they can get their reputation back in the public interest, so we will also give our six votes for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see you're not, so I'm concluding a little late. [[…]] [[…]] Anyone else? There is no interest, so only Member Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u196	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting to everyone! Since I have been Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture for quite some time, I have listened with interest to these discussions, especially in the media, what is taking place with this Law on the Conservation of Nature to agriculture and I do not know who else. You have to have 200 people in Slovenia if you want to have a customer. If you want to have some serious society in the public interest in the environment, there is a European comparable solution to this law. In view of the fact that I am sometimes even tired of participating in some non-governmental organisations, I do not really see any problem, if written in the law, in 137th Article, that a non-governmental organisation is organised in a status form of society and must have at least 50 active members. I think it is in the interest of serious environmental organisations or societies if they want to have a status in the public interest if they want to be serious. He can't have 15 of them gathered in one local inn and he says we're against it. In Posavia we have many cases when you do not even come from Posavia to be against the development of Posavia, but come from other places because they are against everything. For example, they are in the field of energy against wind power plants, they are a problem of birds, they are a problem of hydropower plants, they are a problem of fish and birds, they are against a nuclear power plant, where there is another problem again. Everything's always a problem. I therefore absolutely support this proposal for a law that, if a non-governmental organisation in the field of the environment wants to obtain not only status but a status in the public interest, it has at least minimum conditions. Once again, I come from Posavje alone, and for 15 years I am in these and different functions or positions as I follow local and national policies. And only in the case of hydropower plants on the Lower Sava do I see what is happening when 11 ladies from Ljubljana are found in a place where the investor wants to protect people with energy and environmental work. And this happened partly before my threshold at the Bosniak hydroelectric power plant, and then I followed this story at the Arto-Blanca hydroelectric power plant, Krško. At Brežice we were at the youth center in Brežice, when NGOs said there was a fish they named, I don't know how, I forgot, something with gold had a name, a star. And then an older gentleman, I think he was 80 plus old, raised his hand, and he said, "Lady, I've been a fisherman for almost 60 years, what can someone show me this fish?" And they said they hadn't even seen her before. But they blocked the procedure, at least one year later, until this Gordi knot was cut, where one of the other NGOs went into administrative proceedings and wanted to participate even in judicial proceedings and so on. The Mokrice hydroelectric power plant has a similar story. This non-governmental organization, of course there were others, I have a problem with hydro power plants, we're destroying not knowing which fish. Just for the intermezza, as many fish as are now in Sava, there have never been before, but what else could be more is the problem – who again? Non-governments, and not the NGOs we have put in this law in this article 37, where they have a concession contract. Hunters and fishermen agreed that it was great to allow the shooting of cormorants. Fishermen and hunters, which is almost incomprehensible in the Slovenian space to participate, have the same point in common, but, look at it, it was covered by a non-governmental organisation that said that this was not possible. Then a congregation and a neighboring congregation, in short, had a problem. To make no mistake, I think that at least one third of the organizations in this area are probably seriously considering everything we've heard today, our beautiful environment, our beautiful forests, our birds, fish and so on. And two-thirds of them are just there to be fed. If we look at Erar, we see who they're guessing at. The ones he's paying for. We have a lot of non-governmental organisations with a status in the public interest, although I often think that a lot of these organisations are not in the public interest, but especially in the private interest, which receive the sums of 20,000, 40,000 euros from this state institution, from that state institution, they take the money in short, and then they block the projects. Mokrice hydroelectric power plant - a one-year delay, according to experts involved in the construction of hydroelectric power plants, costs the state or state resources outage, I think 80 million has been said. Who's going to cover this damage? Here we listen to how we sometimes fight about two, three million in a marriage, and this is a terrible problem, and then 11 ladies from Ljubljana come in and do more than 50 million damage, which is then cured here by Members from Posavje. Who's going to be responsible for this? Or will we still give all the powers to all these organisations to participate in all administrative and judicial proceedings, as stated in one of the amendments? Once again, I think it is right that NGOs with a status in the public interest cooperate, but, for the first time, not everywhere and, for the second time, not everyone. If it is true in this Slovenia to have a serious society with 50 members, just look in your local communities, each slightly more serious society has 50 members with ease if members believe in good ideas. Why is it likely that some smaller organizations do not have 50 members? Because some people think they're a little bit of an extremist. Look through our societies, we have a sports company X, a youth society X, a cultural society X. I come from a smaller place, there are 800 inhabitants in my district if we put together a thousand 500 places, and when I was president of a local youth society, we had 110 members easily because young people believed we were doing something good. And no, we didn't get, except for one year, when we had the highest end of the world, we got through the Youth Office 2,000 euros. Wow. In all the other 10 years, so much - nothing. And in Erar, we have NGOs that do -- what do they do? They buy 50 A4 sheets, then they complain through the printer wherever they want. And for that money and they get what? Even paid. Is that progress? It's not progress, it's called conjecture. That is why this law is urgently needed today. And when we listen today to how the government doesn't listen to anyone, I don't know, but I got two texts of two environmental organisations, how, thank God, the government listens to serious environmental organisations. Then I'm reading right here in the News that the Houses are also supporting this law, along with everyone else that's been going on lately. In short, although I was Vice-President of the Eco-Societies in Sevnica, although I was Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and I know very well when we had the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, in the case of Magna and elsewhere, what kind of surprising silence was there by these NGOs when we asked them: “Tell me, express your wish, come to the committee, tell us what will be done on the best agricultural surfaces”. One person came in, publicly exposed, who said she was against it. and was also a member of one another's association, but spoke in his own name. Everyone else said, we're afraid of it, we're afraid of it, if we're loud, we won't get any more money, and so on. Is that the purpose of NGOs? It's not. When we needed them most, they were the quietest. Strangely, today we are hearing about how this ugly country and this ugly capitalism are doing harm and environmentalists are doing it. With this law, we are making the right balance between what citizens and the economy need to be given the possibility of some further procedures and, on the other hand, that NGOs in this area are made real, that they are working in their frameworks and in their area those who have serious intentions. But it's not that they're meant to get the money and set it up for that same money. That's why we're supporting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I see you don't. That is why I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, this is an evocative proposal for a resolution on the proclamation of exceptional climate and environmental dimensions in the Republic of Slovenia. The motion for a resolution was submitted to the assembly by a group of 34 Members and Members with the first-signed Matjaž Germans. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment and Space as the working body at its 17th session on 12 May 2020 and at its first meeting on 17 May 2020. Since the Committee did not adopt the chapters of the motion for a resolution after the discussion, consideration of the motion for a resolution was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Franc Rosec. Roscoe's not here. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Is it a matter of identifying strategic issues or is it just a matter of political prestige? How can the opinions of individuals, sentient groups, or parties be changed overnight? How can a recommendation and declaration be rejected that climate change is here and that action is necessary? How can he look us and all people in peace of mind and say that we will do something? But it is really so difficult for a political opponent with whom you worked together two months ago, to apply a similar policy together, to share similar values together, to admit that he is right, just because he is on the opposite bank right now. But rivers run their course, no matter where we stand, and they cross the hills, ruthlessly, sunnyly, and persistently. By doing so, they show us their power by which we are left speechless and without opportunity. That's an essential question. We no longer have the opportunity to deny that nature, the environment and people must be taken care of today. The resolution, which you vehemently rejected only because of two months of cooperation in this government, could be a source of ideas for the use of words in order to make the meat spoken. But no. That is why we are actually disappointed because we do not address the most important issues in these dishes and because, respected colleagues, you are moving away from your own assurances. How's SMC guys gonna do better for everybody? Sustainable development satisfies desires and creates value for today's generations, taking into account the needs and possibilities of the future. Society, the country and the economy must strive to preserve nature and natural resources, biodiversity and pollution reduction, and to implement long-term strategies, financial responsibilities and cross-sectoral cooperation, integration and coordination. You've hit your own software platforms that I just read. For hair attracted views that you want to justify your behavior are too transparent. If the SMC program says: "In green Slovenia we value and protect our natural wealth, food resources, water resources, forests, space, air. We are equally developing energy sources and contributing in solidarity to international efforts for the sustainable development of a carbon-free society." End of story. Then rejecting the fact is also blocking your own eyes. And the economic resort is your resort, as it is run by your President Zdravko Restoršek. How will you restore dignity to the people of Desus? By denying climate change and climate crisis. How will you encourage projects that will ensure increased self-sustainment of food and promote health food consumption in Slovenia? So you're going to kick NGOs out of the process of putting the economy in place. You are encouraging the construction of agricultural land, so there will be even less food produced at home. You're encouraging the construction of lawns, so there'll be even less natural livestock. You're encouraging deforestation, so our lungs will be even smaller. And this area is run by your president, Alexandra Pivec. You completely deny it, I quote: “The development that we believe in Desus is based primarily on the principles of intergenerational solidarity, in which the use of natural resources to meet the needs of present generations must not take place at the expense of those who are coming.” Instead of at least agreeing with the resolution that the whole world and also Slovenia are in a climate crisis, you will all take a closer look at where. I hope, at least, with the knowledge of how capital you've missed, how capitalally you've become blind because of opportunism. We could still understand this in the context of ideological issues, but to internalize everything that you were explicitly against yesterday, that is not understandable. Not only because of the generations that are yet to come, but also because of us and everyone who created this environment. All right, fellows, and let nature forgive you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Now, I hope that the representatives of the other parliamentary groups will present their views on the Group of Members, and I do not know if they have the authority of the LMŠ to say so. The next is Matjaž Germany, which will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u200	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Together with the distinguished representatives of the environment, we have prepared and tabled a document signed by two political parties, two parliamentary groups, LMŠ and Levica, and two leaders of the parliamentary groups, Alenka Bratušek and Desus. Despite the fact that environmental and climate change is happening every day, even though mankind is increasingly experiencing global warming and there are daily, extraordinary climate and environmental phenomena around us that threaten our lives and the quality of our lives, despite the climate crisis being the greatest threat to present and future generations, despite all of the above, we seem to have a coalition that is still closing our eyes and ears before all of this. Social Democrats, respectable, we have decided to submit a document because we want Slovenia, in a society of developed democratic countries, which have already adopted similar resolutions and policies, to be guided in a way that is environmentally and naturally friendly. Finally, a similar resolution was adopted by the European Parliament itself, setting an example for the other Member States, and other Member States adopted similar initiatives. So who are the ones looking for excuses for returning the document, which says that Slovenia should move to a carbon-free or low-carbon circular economy? Who can refuse a document where it is written that Slovenia should open green jobs, seeking to maintain plant and animal species? Who can oppose the idea of extending the life cycle of products, promoting greening and afforestation, and promoting ideas for local food and food chains? Who are those representatives of the people in the National Assembly of the Slovenian Parliament who are opposed to adopting a document that states that Slovenia should increase sustainable mobility in the future, establish an effective public passenger transport network and significantly reduce the transport and unloading of urban and suburban dams and roads? And finally, who are the representatives of the people, of this people, of the Slovenian people who oppose the document that talks about effective aid, supporting vulnerable groups of the population in order to prevent energy poverty and to provide access to technologies and services to increase energy efficiency and energy and food self-sustainment? Dear Members, these are representatives of the ruling coalition who do not want to preserve nature and our environment, and this is a ruling coalition that does not listen to the living space of all of us. Listen, listen to nature! Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Ambassador Gregor Perič will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Climate change is a fact and is something that affects our everyday life, there is no dilemma that they are here. Now, it is only in the last period that we are really beginning to realize that we have lost that great luxury, which we call primarily time, that we need to act on. However, the motion for a resolution that we have on our hands today is, in fact, an unfortunate attempt to respond to this challenge. Why are you unhappy? In particular, because we have put a lot of effort into coordinating this document in the previous coalition partners, much more than we are investing here in order to be there, but today this document is not harmonised, unfortunately. Not between us, but it is not in line with other strategic documents, I am thinking in particular of NEPN – the National Energy and Climate Plan. And I think that if we're taking some projects or efforts seriously, then it makes sense that the acts we're taking here are also mutually coherent. NEPN is such a document that must be coordinated with the European Commission and dictates the pace of action we will have to take in order to succeed in the fight against climate change. And of course, if we want to adopt the present resolution on the declaration of the climate crisis, then the resolution must be harmonised with the country's fundamental strategic documents. This is particularly important because every commitment we write here and also take requires certain measures and requires certain actions. However, if we are Members to adopt a resolution and we are hearing that this is not only a recommendation, but actually a commitment, then we must also be aware of the many measures or changes that follow. It is not wrong to be ambitious, to understand each other well, but this ambition takes great effort. We must be aware that no change takes place overnight. In the SMC of such a motion for a resolution, unfortunately, we cannot support it. During the coordination process, once again, we have already made clear during the coordination that a law on climate policy, which the former Minister for Environment and Space Zajc has already drawn up, must be adopted before the resolution. A public debate was also held on the subject. Regrettably, however, the proposal for a law because of the resignation of the then Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarc, was stuck in inter-departmental coordination. Given that this bill has already come a long way, we believe in the SMC that the current Minister Visjak will lead his way. This will be followed by the creation of a resolution that will have a basis in the law, which is also a practice in other areas. In the SMC, we strongly agree with this Communication, which follows from the motion for a resolution. Let me stress once again, we agree with the message the resolution carries. However, those who disagree with this Communication are probably deaf and blind to the climate change situation. He is also deaf and blind to admit that we are all equally responsible for our planet. And the more we hear, climate change is not left, not right. However, if we want the resolution to be a compass for us, then it must be brought into substantive harmony with other documents on which we can act together. After all, we need to be aware of one thing. More than declaring the climate crisis, our actions and concrete steps are important, so it is not a matter of prestige, but of the fact that the comments made by the LMS in moving from the coalition to the opposition are simply forgotten and neglected. And here again, we agree with the content, but we want this resolution to be harmonised first on the basis of the law and then on the other acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Mr Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u204	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. The fact is that our 21st-century society should always be committed to human, nature and animals before capital. Climate change is and will, unfortunately, continue to bring with it major social changes and to shape and shape, not the European and global geopolitical structures. We live in a time of rapid and unpredictable extreme climate change, which man himself has cooked with unwise and bad treatment of nature and natural resources. By its way of life, it has a strong influence on the warming of the atmosphere, the state of biodiversity. It has greatly worsened its living conditions and conditions of various animal and plant species. The declaration of extraordinary climate and environmental change is and must be a priority for our country and society as well. All at the same time, it is also an obligation for us, as a state and society, to take all necessary and urgent measures to prevent and mitigate climate change and to adapt to its consequences in order to start achieving the scientifically recommended reduction in emissions, greenhouse gases and the provisions of the Paris Climate Agreement. To preserve our habitat, our planet, our health, the quality of life, the future of our descendants, and our survival. On 28 November 2019, the European Members adopted a resolution on the declaration of climate and environmental emergencies in Europe and around the world at the European Parliament meeting in Strasbourg. This symbolic resolution requires the consistency of legislative proposals with the objective of limiting global warming. In order to follow this green gesture at European level, the Group of Members on the Committee on Infrastructure of the Environment and Space also proposed our resolution on the declaration of exceptional climate and environmental conditions in the Republic of Slovenia. And this motion for a resolution is, or should be, the first step in the right direction to improve the quality of our lives and the survival of our planet. We are living at a time when our mother nature and our planet Earth constantly communicates and reminds us of our negative influences and delusions that we as humanity are causing to the natural system at global level, which is why green social self-reflexion and a new social green consensus at local and global level are essential. In the end, I will take the matter back to a purely sound farm of intelligence, to which some have been so fond of referring in this National Assembly. Better and better than we will care and care for our nature, we and all our descendants will live better and better. In Levica, we demand that this government, as well as all the subsequent governments that will follow them, not only observe and comply with the resolution, such as the one we are discussing today, but will also be legally, politically and morally committed to solving this problem. It is sad that all those parties and all those Members who mainly talk about how they are fighting for a better future for children and young families, then at the meetings they confirm and accept precisely those harmful conclusions and proposals that destroy and shorten the better, brighter and healthier future for all these children and young families. At the same time, they do not hear the warnings and requests of all those who are fighting for a better future and for the protection of nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mihael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u206	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The resolution on the declaration of exceptional climate and environmental conditions in the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the National Assembly declares that Slovenia is in a state of emergency climate and environmental conditions due to the warming of the atmosphere, the impact of climate change on the environment, the reduction of natural resources, the deterioration of living conditions and the country's overcapacity for self-renewal and self-cleaning. In New Slovenia, we note that unfortunately, the resolution deals only with measures to reduce climate change and, on the other hand, it does not answer the question of how we will ensure the functioning of the economy and thus the jobs and livelihoods of people. We are in favour of such an economy that cares about the environment. The market economy in the future is an organic social market economy. We are aware that it is a free enterprise initiative that brings innovation, which will contribute most to the protection of the environment in the future and at the same time achieve economic objectives. We need to protect and preserve the environment for younger generations [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u207	Just a moment, Comrade Prevc, you will continue here because there has been a malfunction in the measurement of time. Is that possible? Not yet. The minute's not up yet. You can try, Comrade Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Respectful treatment of our environment, fertile soil, drinking water, animal life, and diversity of species is our goal and our shared task, which must be pursued by each individual. It is therefore our duty today to make such political and economic decisions that will ensure the conservation of natural resources and the environment for future generations as well. The Cronavirus epidemic has greatly reduced emissions. Energy consumption will decrease by almost 8% this year due to covid-19 estimates by the International Energy Agency. The epidemic has thus shown us, on the one hand, how emissions can be reduced, and on the other hand, what the impact this has on the economy, on the fate of people, on budgetary systems and on the fragility of the sustainability of the financing of the social state. With us alone, the gross domestic product will decrease by 7% this year. The virus has shown that it is easy to reduce emissions and the problem arises when it comes to how we will ensure survival for these people. We do not want to see the fight against climate change as simplified as this resolution shows. In particular, we want very concrete and serious proposals that will, on the one hand, reduce the burden of the environment and, on the other hand, would not jeopardise the ability of people to support themselves and their families with their work. Although resolution is a really nice list of wishes, there are no concrete solutions. In New Slovenia we expect a more serious debate in the adoption of the law on climate policy. Also, all the energy climate targets by 2030 and the concrete measures proposed by this resolution are already referred to the National Energy and Climate Plan, which is also an appropriate strategic document for us to take these decisions by the Government. I hope that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will draw up, as soon as possible in accordance with the Paris Agreement and climate policy and European Union legislation, a long-term climate strategy to promote accelerated greenhouse gas emissions reduction by 2050 at the latest, and that we will be considering it in this year's National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Chairman. Climate change poses a serious threat to the world. The profession is united, and it is man who is responsible for climate change and human actions that will shape the destiny of humanity and our craftsmen in the decades to come. The Group of Members and Members addressed the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the initiative of the Government, following the example of other European countries, to declare the climate crisis and actively advocate its resolution. With a motion for a resolution, the National Assembly would announce that Slovenia, due to the warming of the atmosphere, the impact of climate change on the environment, the state of biodiversity, the reduction of natural resources, the deterioration of living conditions and the overcapacity of the country to self-renewal and self-cleaning in a state of extreme climate and environmental conditions. Notwithstanding the fact that concrete can be achieved on the basis of documents at strategic legislative and programmatic levels, the resolution constitutes a framework for action. As an act of political importance, it does not therefore contain legally binding standards, but as a public declaration, it focuses on the important question of what I can do as an individual and do to reduce climate change directly. We are all therefore aware of the need to follow up on measures to achieve greenhouse gas reductions and to follow the Paris Climate Agreement. The cessation of greenhouse gas emissions could be achieved through sustained long-term measures and costs, which are negligible compared to risk if nothing is done. One of the measures that we can all help to reduce the effects of climate change is to decarbonise transport and to link the existing irrational use of personal means of transport. Transport assets are one of the major consumers of fossil fuels, particularly oil. In the SAB, we are still well aware that public transport arrangements, encouraging people to use bicycles more often and that on short walks are essential for the clean climate. At the initiative of former Minister Alenka Bratušek, public transport for pensioners or over 65 years of age will thus be available free of charge with July 2020. The minister introduced fast bus lines between many Slovenian cities, and there are also numerous cycling routes in the building. Rail infrastructure is being updated throughout the country. Such measures and benefits encourage people to make the most of public means of transport, with many positive consequences in the long run. In the SAB party, we have also put forward the proposal for an Infrastructure Fund in transport infrastructure with the aim of continuing to invest in sustainable transport infrastructure in the future. It would ensure a stable and predictable implementation of the necessary investments in the reconstruction, modernisation and upgrading of the existing more than a thousand 200 kilometres of untapped rail and Circus 6,000 kilometres of long road infrastructure. These investments in this fund are simply needed to adapt transport infrastructure to climate change as well as to achieve the objective of shifting transit freight from road to rail. We also wrote down the right to drinking water on our initiative in the Constitution. In the SAB, we believe that any step in adapting to climate change as well as the development challenges of the Slovenian economy is welcome. We see the climate resolution as an invitation, guidance and opportunity to transform our economy to develop new technologies and competitive jobs with high added value, taking into account the objectives of protecting and preserving nature and its diversity for our researchers. In the SAB, we will support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members tabled a resolution on the declaration of exceptional climate and environmental conditions in the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly. The resolution was proposed in order for the National Assembly to declare the exceptional climate and environmental situation in the Republic of Slovenia, to set the climate objectives of the country, measures and organisation against the exceptional climate and environmental conditions. On the content, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has already warned that the National Assembly cannot, by means of a resolution, declare exceptional climate and environmental conditions. The resolution is a legally non-binding act. As a result, the question arises what would actually be achieved by the adoption of the resolution. We all agree that measures must be taken to address the problems of climate change and environmental protection in the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, in the European Union. Of course, there is no way to achieve this with a resolution. However, we will achieve all of the following by 2050, which will be adopted this year by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and will also be sent to the National Assembly for consideration and acceptance. For the period until 2030, the climate strategy will be based on the measures already taken, as defined in the Slovenian National Energy and Climate Plan, on the Slovenian Development Strategy 2030, the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme 2030 and many other documents of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. The government strategy will set vision and long-term targets for the period until 2050. The strategy will also provide guidance for the implementation of the necessary measures and guide future action decisions. This year we will adopt a strategy that will actually enable the objectives of climate change resolution and environmental protection in Slovenia to be met. Nevertheless, all important decisions on climate change and the environment are taken at European Union level. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is actively involved in these solutions. We can conclude from this that it is important to actively solve environmental problems and environmental protection in the Republic of Slovenia. This is not about a prestigious fight, what anyone proposes, it is important that we all contribute together to the preservation of environmental protection, both for individuals and for all political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u214	Thank you. Nice hello to you all! Despite the seriousness of the matter, the Legislative and Legal Service on the motion for a resolution on the declaration of exceptional climate and environmental conditions in the Republic of Slovenia has had some comments that we consider to be in place. We are saddened, however, that the current state of affairs does not move much despite the rhetoric of world leaders, decision makers who have known of the problem for at least 30 years, if not more. You want to be aware that you don't want the measurements to lie and that there are more and more weather disasters at the annual level already 800 a year compared to 40 years ago when there were four times fewer. The fact is that the post-2008 global climate crisis was no longer resolved, but banks and financial markets were much preferable. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that every responsible citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia must ask themselves what he can personally do in dealing with the climate crisis and does not point to another. We can eat more homemade and locally grown hots and not throw them away. The problem in modern society is that because most people do not understand the climate crisis, they do not take it seriously enough because they have not learned about it in school. In addition, the media do not provide sufficient information. The latter are now crucial to the effective management of climate change and should not be exaggerated in reporting due to the general panic of people. The core of all the problems we are witnessing is clearly the economic model of constant growth and prosperity of the country. Active citizens demand from the country that more budgets be seen as combating climate change. We need to spit in our hands and deal with unpleasant things, and we need to be professional and not populist. We also urgently need various incentives to save energy and high taxes for those who want to work on the old system. Priority should be given to investing in green infrastructure. We must have a plan for each household to receive a brochure with information on future climate scenarios and warnings on how to act in the coming years, similar to the brochure we received at home, what is the new coronavirus by the NIZ and the MNZ. We all notice that the atmosphere, the soil, the oceans are warming up. In the north there are glaciers that pose a potential threat to humanity with new viruses. With us, economic or agricultural damage is already increasing due to droughts, floods, storms. More and more green winters do not earn ski tourism. We can rightly fear losing valuable drinking water because of the increased amount of salt water, since we have witnessed an increase in sea level by nearly five millimeters a year. The climate objectives are optimistic and the question is, if we can achieve them, because there is a great deal of action against the climate crisis. If we want to realize them, we will have to step together and be willing to give up a lot of things for the better tomorrow of our future generations. We support the motion for a resolution in the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u215	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the motion for a resolution has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, it is to the defence of the proposal for proposals for the implementation of the exceptional powers of the Slovenian military in the wider protection of the state border. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. At its 13th urgent meeting on 1 April 2020, the draft decision was considered by the Defence Committee as the working body of the mother. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal after the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a decision was concluded at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Ambassador Robert Pavšič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u216	Thank you very much. The position is in fact a response to the proposal for a decision to activate Article 37a of the Defence Act. We then replied to the proposaler: "In the List of Marjan Šarc, we are aware that in these difficult times, successful confrontation with the current public health and threatening economic and social crisis is a key open and well-intentioned cooperation between the opposition and the ruling coalition, whether we agree with the proposals or not. The target is clear. Form and take optimal measures that are for the benefit of all citizens and different organisations and our countries. Therefore, we are sending you further our specific proposals to improve your decision to exercise the exceptional powers of the military in the wider protection of the state border that you sent us on 27 March. With regard to support for the decision, which would also take into account our proposals, we will decide when the decision is taken by the Government. On this occasion, we invite you to withdraw from the draft law on intervention measures to combat the epidemic the additional powers of the police as defined in Articles 103 and 104 of the bill. In this way, we can all focus together only on economic and social measures that are for the benefit of our people and businesses. However, let us tell you in advance that we will not allow measures to become a cover against the coronavirus and weaken our democracy and constitutional arrangements. This was the introductory part sent by LMŠ to the drafter of the decision. We requested further justification for the requirement to activate this article, which was based only on fictitious pressure on borders, and later we learned that it was actually a contingency plan due to a possible increase in the infected among police officers. Of course, you didn't fully consider it, but you adjusted it in your own way. We wanted the rules of action to be set in advance, but you didn't accept it. We wanted to limit the duration of the measure to one month, with the possibility of an extension adopted by the National Assembly, and neither did you. We wanted regular weekly reports to be prepared by the structures on a weekly basis, and you did not want to implement this in the conclusion. I stress, in particular, that we trust police and police officers, we trust soldiers and soldiers, and we don't trust you in recent weeks. We don't trust politicians, we don't trust you personally because you haven't justified your trust, on the contrary, you've taken advantage of it too many times.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matjaž Germany. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and Members! The proposal for a decision on the implementation of the exceptional powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wider protection of the border, i.e. the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act, did not receive support on the home committee. Today's review of statistics on illegal state border crossings for the first four months of this year shows that the number of illegal crossings has decreased significantly from the numbers recorded at the end of 2015 and at the beginning of 2016, when more than 7,000 refugees arrived every day across the southern border in Slovenia. And yes, then the Social Democrats supported the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act. The government is one. 4. 2020, when submitting a proposal for a decision, assessed the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act as related to the situation of the outbreak or the implementation of measures to control and control the covida-19 epidemic. It stated in the explanatory memorandum that the police have set new tasks and obligations, such as checkpoints at other parts of the state border with the Republic of Austria or Italy and Hungary. In addition, through preventive measures, such as the use of last year's leave and the assignment of work from home, some police officers were protected from infections. They also pointed out that in the current situation it is not possible to travel and move additional members of the police from the interior of the country to the southern border. They also stated that only the cooperation of the Slovenian Armed Forces with the police after the fourth paragraph of Article 37a of the Defence Act was not sufficient. This is due to the deterioration of the security conditions for effective control of the state border. At the same time, in the Group of Social Democrats, we wonder where, in which segment of the security situation has deteriorated, the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia were thus closed between the four walls in the municipalities where we live and the state borders of European countries were closed and are only now slowly opening. Under Article 37, paragraph 1, of the Defence Act, it is the duty of the military to cooperate in the protection and resolution of natural and other disasters in accordance with its organisation and definition. Dear colleagues and colleagues! An infectious disease, which certainly includes covid-19, is a natural and certainly primary health issue. The Slovenian Armed Forces can therefore cooperate with the police, do so continuously and support the police in preventing illegal state border crossings from 19 October 2015. It's exemplary and it's successful. Because with its capabilities, it supports efforts to control the spread of the new virus. What they do at the time of the epidemic, we can read on their websites. In short, members and members of the Police and the Slovenian Armed Forces are well involved and are doing important work for the country of Slovenia and its residents and residents. Social Democrats trust Slovenian police and soldiers. But experts and experts in this field warn us that every police officer is trained for his own work and decision, and most soldiers are acting on orders. But the order cannot be resisted. It's not like we don't trust soldiers. The problem is, we don't trust those who share orders with soldiers. Neither do both police unions support the activation of Article 37a. Social Democrats understand people's expectations of having an army to protect the border, but Slovenian soldiers and soldiers are not enough. It is necessary to act in support of the security and rescue forces and to use their presence, capacity and technology where necessary. The current situation shows, with respect, that we do not need armies with police powers at the border. However, we need an appropriate solution to those resources, such as the auxiliary police we have, and we have already given the Social Democrats several initiatives to deal with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In recent weeks, we have found ourselves in an extremely difficult situation. On the one hand, we have been facing a long-standing migrant crisis and an increase in illegal state border crossings and, on the other hand, a health crisis in the form of an epidemic of coronavirus. The action was necessary, and of all branches of government, it required a state-of-the-art, responsible and sound conduct. In such situations, the safety and health of citizens and citizens must be paramount. In terms of national interest, however, the management of all types of risks. Let us recall that in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre in 2015 we unanimously supported the proposal to supplement the Defence Act, which temporarily allows the Slovenian Army additional powers precisely with a view to assisting and working in concert with the Police in the wider protection of the state border. It is therefore a matter of ensuring the safety of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and also migrants. We fully trust the Slovenian Army and the police in the parliamentary group of the Modern Centre Party. We trust in their work and their professional attitude to carry out their tasks and mission under the laws. The current developments in the wider space show that we need to rely primarily on our own strengths, knowledge and resources. It is reasonable for members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to play a greater role in ensuring our national security, that is, in this case in protecting our borders, as this requires security conditions. By including the army in the protection of the southern border, they would thus relieve and partially replace the police and thereby release their personnel resources. Since the arrival of illegal migrants on the Western Balkan migration route is generally strengthened in warmer months, there was a risk that police would not be in line with all their tasks during the epidemic. Therefore, as a follow-up to the effective management of migration flows and for the smooth functioning of the State, the Government has adopted and sent to Parliament a proposal for a decision to activate Article 37a of the Defence Act. According to our assessment, the proposal for a decision is also a good response to our comments. It contains a number of security guards which restrict these exceptional powers of the Slovenian Army and also closely monitor their implementation. This is because it is a three-month time limit and a territorial focus on the five-kilometre boundary band. It is solely the purpose of additional powers to help the police direct and control migration flows at our southern border. By no means does the decision allow the deployment of members of the army to the streets of Slovenian cities, as the opposition likes to say too often and misleadingly. We support activation 37a in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Articles of the Defence Act are understood as a state-of-the-art act to ensure the continued smooth functioning of all the vital functions of the State, while at the same time strengthening the sense of security and confidence among citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u222	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Since the first day of this new government, we can follow how Janez Janša understands the epidemic – as an opportunity to strike democracy, the media, the police, the budget and the state. Those who oppose this are the targets of attacks to act counter-Stately and treacherously. Of course, the first task of the Hungarian government in Slovenia is to take the legitimacy of the opposition and disable it. The key tools of this strategy are fear and lie. The government scares us so much that a new refugee wave is coming, but at the border we record only about 20 crossings a day less than during the same period last year. Also on the Turkish-Greek border, the situation is calming down. There is no repetition in 2015. The key argument for the use of the army in police roles is therefore a pure fiction. But even if she wasn't, what would the military do with police authority? Persecuted the already exiled and poor refugees and illegally pushed them back into the humanitarian disaster of Bosnia in cooperation with Croatia, as it has already done with the 16 thousand poor souls from 2016 to today. We are not threatened by naked and bare fugitives, but by the government, the Slovenian government. Of course, the government imagines that these are only extraordinary measures, but extraordinary measures have an ugly habit of staying long after they are no longer needed, if ever. We had this experience with the previous crisis, they introduced Zujf, they restricted the referendum, and they wrote a fiscal rule in the constitution. All of this is still with us today. There is much more at stake in this crisis: privacy, freedom, democracy. In real time, we can all see how the government beats everyone around us; the judiciary is a criminal, the media is lying, the opposition is an internal enemy, the professional opinion is worthless if it does not support the police state of SDS. That's why some species are trying to strike, even at NIJ. After all the spitting, poison and lies, the extreme right is being sold, how to deal well with crises, but in fact neither the grip of people nor the economy understands. For their government, Janez Janša is a complete incompetence. He can't help companies, let's just see how the guarantee scheme got stuck. In the case of billions of euros in aid, the number of unemployed has risen by 10,000. Remember the museums that opened up so they didn't open. Reports from the field say the government's instructions to open schools are a joke. Education together only holds the commitment of teachers and teachers. And Kacin on the Krka. The measures change from today to tomorrow, without a professional basis. During this parade of incompetence, the population suffered. That little help to people, as far as the Crown Law is concerned, the government terminates at the end of the month. To that end, she was quick to move forward with an end to the epidemic. How the self - employed, the nicknames, the workers, the students, the unemployed, and others will survive, clearly Janez Janša is not interested. But I would have an army at the border and above the people, and yes. Therefore, when scaring refugees, we must not forget how they are trying to abuse power in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u224	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! In modern times migration is a complex, global phenomenon facing all countries of the world, including Slovenia. The Resolution on the Migration Policy of the Republic of Slovenia sets out that international migration occurs mostly in three forms. For the first time, as regular, free migration of individuals who, by their own will and under existing laws, change their country of residence; for the second time, as forced migration, when people flee from persecution or fear of collective violations of human rights; and, lastly, as illegal migrations concerning prohibited border crossings and illegal stay in a foreign country. The citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who live in or near the border and the corridors through which irregular migration is taking place, have repeatedly turned to New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Again and again, we ask the National Assembly and the Government to draw attention to the pressing problem, not only the illegal entry into the Republic of Slovenia, but also to the worrying movements of migrants against the interior of the country. In their path, a group of migrants, mostly made up of young, mature men, leave real desolation. The border dwellers report carefree disturbances in forests, burglaries and places in Slovenian homes, so we understand the plight of the border citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and their desire for a solution to this country as soon as possible. Defence Minister Matthew Tonin told the Defence Committee that the situation in the Balkans is not rosy. The various reports of the competent services point out that on the Balkan migration route from Greece to Slovenia, a large number of migrants who want to come to the European Union are being held back, with a large number of targets mainly Western Europe. If we compare the movement of the number of migrants covered in 2018, 2019 and 2020, we see that in this year, January and February, the number of irregular migrants covered has significantly increased compared to the same period of time in previous years. In recent months, the number of irregular migrants involved has decreased due to the epidemic and the closure of all borders of countries on the migration route, but the numbers remain high. On the basis of past years, however, we can conclude that the number of illegal border crossings in the coming months will be substantially strengthened by warmer weather and border openings when measures are released. At the same time, we must be aware that the neighbouring countries of Austria and Hungary have already secured their borders. If Slovenia does not act, we will have a migrant pocket that will not only burden the border dweller but also everyone else. We are well aware of this in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, so we listened to people at the border and wanted to activate Article 37a. This army allows its members and members to warn, oppose, temporarily restrict the movement of persons and participate in the management of groups and crowds in the border band. This would create a legal framework that would successfully address the problem of illegal border crossings and restore a sense of security for the border residents of the Republic of Slovenia. The inhabitants of the border are not afraid of our domestic Slovenian armies, unlike some in this Chamber. On the contrary, they want their powers. Many border mayors have called for the activation of Article 37a, which would increase the number of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces at the southern border at present 190 to 500. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats as well as the border dwellers do not fear the Slovenian Army. We are aware that the Slovenian Army is composed of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It includes our family members, friends and neighbors. In the New Slovenia Group, we therefore regret that, at the vote of the Defence Committee, the proposal for a decision on the exercise of the exceptional powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wider protection of the state border has not been adopted. That is why there is no vote in the temple of democracy today. However, we will not give up here, we believe that the security of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is crucial, so we will find a way to ensure it with broad agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Although it has already been said that today in relation to this point activation 37a. I will also present on behalf of the SAB our position on this issue. The first time it came up with a proposal to activate 37a. Article of the SAB Defence Act is not as populist as some parties started shouting and screaming and announced the end of the world because of this action, but we wanted to act in a state-of-the-art and work in the interests of the state and its people. What we have done is that we have initially requested very detailed explanations from the Minister of State and from the Police on what this activation actually means. Let me remind you, if any of the citizens may be looking at us, this article was introduced into the law by the Left Minister, if we are splitting up all the time, then Minister SD Katičeva in 2015 and was activated in February 2016, when the migration wave in Europe increased dramatically and a so-called Western Balkan route was established also through Slovenia. So the law has changed the left-wing government. During our discussion with the Minister and police representatives, we asked the SAB party for explanations and answers to the following questions. First of all, how urgent it is to implement this measure right now is that we have time as a country to prepare ourselves more with other measures before we use this option. Secondly, we wanted to clarify exactly what the content of the powers the soldiers at the border would have. Thirdly, we wanted to clarify precisely what the time and local limits of this mandate are. I must say, we have received very precise answers, both orally and in government writing. In particular, the Government then explained the following, first and foremost, in their view, this activation should be initiated immediately, due to the security situation in the area of migration as well as to the control of the situation in the country after the outbreak has been declared and because of the military's assistance in curbing the spread of the virus. The problem, in their view, was largely the number of checkpoints at borders with neighbouring countries and the high exposure of police officers to possible infections and the necessity of the police to keep part of the Slovenian police on reserve all the time. According to the Government, the activation of Article 37a had to be initiated immediately. With regard to time constraints - we know that this measure is limited to three months - they stressed that it would only take three months to say that the measure could only be implemented 5 km from the state border, which was also clearly defined in the material. And with regard to the content of the powers, it was clearly explained that soldiers were not able to exercise all powers, and the gold did not have the powers they had as an army under the Weapons Act, but had very limited powers, could warn and travel people, temporarily restrict their movement and participate in the control of groups and crowds. Following all these assurances, we have proposed an amendment in the SAB, proposing that only those soldiers from the military composition could be included, in accordance with this mandate, who have been engaged for at least some time in the military service, which, in our opinion, would prevent the inclusion of members of the guard or the various guards. Although our amendment has not been adopted on the Committee, the proposed decision on the activation of Article 37a has also not been adopted. However, I would like to point out that in the SAB, we were prepared to listen to the police and the ministry's explanations at all times if such activation was at that point mainly due to the coronavirus, the exposure of police officers to the disease, the need for a back-up of police officers on the ground. Now, of course, the situation is completely different, the migratory pressure is much lower than it was in previous years, even all these other health restrictions are getting smaller and we find that the decision to activate this article, article 37a of the Defence Act, was not the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Franz Jurš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u228	President, thank you for your word. Everyone in the hall has a lovely greeting! The button for the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act was first pressed in 2016 in the National Assembly. Throughout our territory, a vast number of migrants have been swept through the road, and military assistance to the police forces has been more than necessary. The members of the Slovenian Army and the police have done their job with the greatest degree of professionalism, a sense of co-humanity. If the Government then proposed the activation of the article that the military could help the police more effectively control the migration flow and thus defuse it, this time the government was led by security conditions, also due to the covida-19 epidemic. On the proposed decision to reactivate the said article, some were expected to have their ears cut. We've heard a lot of things, including certain populist deceptions to the public, but the law is clear. If the security situation so requires, the National Assembly may, on a proposal from the Government by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present, decide that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, exceptionally in the wider protection of the State border, exercise specific powers, alerting, travelling, temporarily restricting the movement of persons and participating in the management of groups and crowds. They may do so for a maximum of three months and under the same conditions as for police officers. It is therefore necessary to reiterate that powers could only be exercised with the police at the state border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. The instructions from members of the Slovenian Army and the police could be so clear. Any mistrust or doubt in the so-called two important institutions, in the expertise of the work performed by the members and members, is therefore totally superfluous. Being a soldier or a cop doesn't just mean doing this job, it means living for him. We have repeatedly stressed that the disease is not a choice and, as in all sectors, the situation has adapted to the police. As a result of the measures taken by the epidemic, the police obtained additional tasks overnight both inside the country and at the borders with Italy and Austria. With the single implementation of the new commitments, it was therefore expected that in the given situation, police officers would be further relocated from the interior of the country to the southern border. In the Desus Group, we supported the proposal for a decision on the exercise of the exceptional powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wider protection of the state border in light of the situation and the information provided on illegal crossings of the state border. Explanation of the vote of some parliamentary groups that they voted against the lack of confidence in the government coalition, and that in the situation we were in, it was not even important to lose words. The actions are those that count, and it is our responsibility to take measures to protect our territory, to take care of all citizens and citizens, and not least of all migrants who find themselves in our territory on the path to finding a different life. If anything, we Slovenians are responsible, compassionate and working people. After this, we will be able to limit the invisible enemy. And we're probably exactly the same in one thing at a time, regardless of the different political backgrounds. We all want to keep it that way in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u230	Nice greetings to all present, especially the chairman! The National Assembly shall decide on the declaration of emergency and emergency measures. A state of emergency shall be declared when the existence of a State threatens a major and general threat. At this point, we have at least two explanations for the state of emergency, an epidemic that has certainly not yet said the last word. Although the situation in Slovenia is very good, it is not far from here. Another important reason is the illegal crossings of the state border and the criminal conduct committed by illegal migrants. In the proposal for a decision, the figures are more than eloquent. Illegal migrants in Slovenia are among the perpetrators of certain acts of reprisal, such as rape, kidnapping, burglary, theft, and the like. People are scared, so something has to be done. If, through their intelligence services, the Defence Minister and the Home Minister are aware of the increased security risks in our region, then we must listen and act. The draft Decision describes in detail the security situation in individual countries in our region. The numbers don't allow us to sleep peacefully. The Defence Act in Article 37a provides for the exceptional powers of the military. It is very precise that soldiers exercise their powers together with the police, so not alone. They only exercise powers in the wider protection of the state border. We're talking about a lane five kilometers from the borderline, so not inside the country. The argument that the protection of the borders will endanger the lives of soldiers and police officers is completely in conflict with themselves. The lives of soldiers and police officers are at risk every day, so these two jobs in normal countries are valued, these are noble professions, such as professions that should also have a much higher reputation in Slovenian society, for example at least at the firefighter level. Our soldiers and police officers are prepared for danger, while the people at the border are not prepared for danger. It is therefore right to protect the state. We can't leave people at the border to protect their lives and their property. It is also important to take into account the police's human resources malnutrition. The proposal for a decision sets out in more detail the poor staffing situation of the police to carry out the tasks of protecting the Schengen border. There will be an urgent need to increase the number of days for which auxiliary police officers can be called. The police and the military have been involved in border protection since 2015 and so far there have been no major problems. We must be aware that our security authorities must be fully coordinated in the event of a new migratory wave in the field. This means extraordinary strategic and organisational efforts. If I have correctly understood the opponent of the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act, the measures should be incomplete or not specific enough. The proposal for a decision gives all four military powers very precise reasons; it would be difficult to explain them more. I would expect them to say at least how they would prevent illegal border crossings and ensure border security. I would like to know whether the country protecting its borders is safer or safer than the country that does not prevent illegal migrants from entering the country. Only through the activation of Article 37a will we effectively protect the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the people of Slovenia. People have the right to live in a safe Slovenia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The Coronavirus pandemic will be defeated by Europe, believe me, very quickly, one way or another. But if Europe is once overwhelmed by radical Islam, it will never overcome it again, because then there will be no going back. For this reason, the security, civilisation, in terms of human rights protection and, in many other respects, the issue of illegal migration is a security challenge that goes beyond all the other issues that Europe is actually facing today. The question is: Does she realize that and whether you admit it yourself? The question of illegal migration has not been completed by any means; it has not yet begun. This can only be compared today, with 2015, from the point of view that this is a continuation of one another. Although it was now a short break from the pandemic, during the pandemic itself, members of the Turkish government, just yesterday, as well as the Turkish foreign minister, claimed that as soon as the pandemic was over, they would ensure that the European Union or Greece would initially be overwhelmed by illegal migrants. It is said that Europe is being blackmailed, the money that Europe is sending there is not sufficient or makes no sense at all, and it will have to rely on its own strength. This applies to Europe as a whole, which must start to effectively protect external borders once and, of course, for each country individually, even for Slovenia. In Slovenia, the problem is that the security system has been maintained for many years. We have all relied on collective security, but these security challenges that appear today do not seem sufficient. It will be necessary to strengthen the pillars of statehood, the pillars of defence and to ensure the safety of every citizen, every citizen, in particular the most vulnerable groups, is called women and children. Everyone has the right to security, to life, to respect human rights, to personal integrity. And no foreigner's right may be over this fundamental right of every citizen, every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to satisfy this, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has sent to the National Assembly a proposal to activate the 37th member of the Slovenian Army, which means that the military would be given some police powers. This is far from all that the military can and knows, but in this case it would be sufficient to ensure a significantly greater level of security than it has been so far. This measure was blocked, blocked by the leftist fifth column, which is mocked by the security of its own citizens and citizens in greed for its power. This is best proved by them, because in the same breath, when they tell you that they will not allow the activation of the Slovenian Army to do exactly what it is done, they say that they are defending Slovenia to protect the Slovenian borders, they are laughing: “Did you not say that you will make sure that no illegal migrant will be able to cross the border?” That is said, at the same time they block something and at the same time make fun of their own citizens and citizens and their security. That's what they say. The fact is that the rejection of what we witnessed on the committee is an insult to the Slovenian Army, to all those who want to carry out the most noble profession to make their lives, as well as to firefighters, policemen and others, put in the protection of Slovenia and the Slovenian people, every citizen, every citizen individually. Indeed, everything was allowed to be disgraced here, even in those days, when an incident was staged there at the Italian border and all the media undisputedly complained that the Slovenian Army had done something there, which would, of course, be a violent excess of powers. If anyone had done so, it would have been like flying on the head of the Slovenian Army, but it turned out that there was no Slovenian army at all. This is said to have been a deliberate malignment of the Slovenian Army. If what Levi says is true, that the use of the Slovenian Army to protect the borders means militarisation and I do not know the military coup, then the military coup is against all our northern neighbours, because everyone with the Austrians in charge is now protecting their borders also with their military units. In Slovenia we need the Slovenian Army, because police officers are not enough to protect them effectively. This proposal will also need to be repeated and reinstated, given that it has been rejected and shown who is who. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u233	Thank you very much. We have ended by moving the positions of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal for a decision has been completed. That concludes this point. We're moving to nine. At the time of the day, this is to the defence of the interim report on the parliamentary investigation of the detection of abuses and the non-emergency alignment in the dub. The interim report was submitted by the Investigative Commission for consideration at the meeting on the identification of abuses and non-economic behaviour in the DUTB. The interim report is public and will be considered by the assembly at a public meeting. The components of the interim report are also an additional interim report, which is marked by the degree of professional secrecy, banking secrecy under Article 125 of the Banking Act, tax secrecy and the protection of personal data, and another supplementary interim report, which is consistent with the Classified Secret Information Act. In view of the above, the assembly, pursuant to Article 101(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, will consider those additional interim reports at a public meeting tomorrow at 9 a.m. All the debaters are so requested that you do not provide information from the supplementary interim report and other additional interim reports which are not available to the public in the public debate. I further inform you that the vote on the essential findings and the proposal for a decision will take place at a public meeting. Therefore, in the context of Wednesday's vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, in any possible explanation of vote, you do not provide the relevant findings in the supplementary or other supplementary interim report, which is neither accessible nor confidential to the public, but this explanation is given in the previous closed part of the meeting. We are moving on to a debate on the interim report, the essential findings and the proposal for a decision to be held in public. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Vice-President of the Commission of Inquiry Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members and Government Representative! Allow me, as Vice-President of this Commission of Inquiry today, to present our interim report, which, to the greatest extent, is due to the recent President, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, who has already taken on new responsibilities within the government team. First, a few words in general about the work of our commission of inquiry. On 30 January 2019, on the initiative of Members of the New Slovenia, the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses and non-economic behaviour in the DUTB was set up, but its proposal for setting up was signed by 89 Members from all parliamentary groups. The key purpose of this parliamentary investigation was and remains the determination of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to the suspicion that they had indirectly or directly affected the alleged non-economic or unlawful decisions of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, i.e. DUTB or Bad Banks. These potentially contested decisions are related to the transfer, management and sale of claims by banks or other assets and to other measures under the DUTB jurisdiction. The management of the company is also required, of course, as it is assumed that the decisions of the Bank of Slovenia, the Government, the National Assembly and other state authorities may have been affected. The work of the Commission was already set up in two separate parts at the beginning. In the first part, which we are concluding today with this interim report, the Commission has focused on the procedures leading to the transfer of claims from business banks to the main state-owned bank. The second part of the parliamentary investigation will focus on the establishment of the DUTB, its functioning, its operation and its management of claims. At the time of the constitutional session of the Commission until the mid-term report, the Commission met at eight regular and nine urgent meetings. Our work was carried out smoothly, without difficulty with the conclusion, and no member or alternate member of the Commission was replaced until the interim report. Prior to the adoption of this interim report, a very extensive dossier was examined and 19 witnesses were interviewed. All the witnesses responded to the invitation. For its own investigative work, the Commission has also hired external experts with special knowledge from finance, audit and forensic investigations, which have carried out almost 2 000 700 working hours together up to and including the month of March. The Commission also had no major problems with cooperation with state authorities and economic operators invited to submit documentation. The documentation was transmitted within the time limits set. Thus, an integral part of today's interim report is also an additional interim report and another supplementary interim report, both covering the procedures that have been carried out without the presence of the public in order to protect the security of the Parliamentary Commission so far, as well as the information that the consignors have identified with the degree of secrecy, as business secrets or as personal data, and we are obliged to protect them in accordance with the law. The Commission of Inquiry considered this interim report at its 10th urgent meeting on 6 and 9 March and also adopted it at that meeting. A separate opinion on the interim report was delivered by Mr Željko Cigler, Member of the Commission of Inquiry of the Left Group. Something about the contents of the midterm report. First of all, I would like to remind you of what the fundamental mission of the DURB is. This was to clear the portfolios of business banks in the context of the financial crisis through the transfer of bad claims to the DUTB in order to free up the credit crunch and to contribute to economic recovery and financial stability. The transfer of risk items itself was one of the main parts of the resolution of the banking system and after this process the bad bank could start managing claims and assets and selling them. The Commission of Inquiry has already decided unanimously at its first meeting to examine these claims transfer procedures and whether systemic risks have arisen under these procedures. However, since the transfer of claims and valuations is extremely complex, it is not possible to treat it uniformly and the Commission has also taken other procedures into consideration in the context of the resolution of the banking system. The findings relating to the transfer of bad claims themselves are, after all of the hearings so far, relevant enough to confirm the thesis of a significant risk in the context of the misdemeanour transfer process. And how did this process of transferring bad bank claims to the DUTB actually take place? The transfer itself made it possible to act on measures to strengthen the stability of banks, adopted in October 2012. On its basis, the Government adopted a Regulation on the implementation of measures to strengthen the stability of banks in March 2013, which set out in detail three criteria for claims that meet the conditions for transposition. Thus, it was stated that the bank’s claims may be transferred to non-payments where the principal’s value and accrued interest exceeds EUR half million, in order to transfer the bank’s capital investments to shares or shares in the company’s core capital, established in the Republic of Slovenia, acquired by the bank from insurance or through the conversion of claims into capital, and that the assets acquired by the bank from insurance may also be transferred. Thus, the total gross value was EUR 4.9 billion in poor claims transferred in such a way, and the carrying value was almost EUR 1.6 billion. So it went on average by 68% of the discount. DUTB initially took over the claims of four banks: NLB, NKBM, Abanke and Bank Celje. As a basic condition for starting this process, however, a key assessment of the value of the assets of these business banks, the so-called AQR, and on this basis a stress or burden test was carried out to show the resilience or rather the resilience of our banking system in crisis situations. It was a very precise and comprehensive review requested by the European Central Bank and the European Commission because they did not trust in our banking system and the aim was to identify the actual situation in banks as a prerequisite for the approval of State aid measures or the recapitalisation of these business banks. The portfolio was then subjected to stress tests assessing the capital deficit. However, since we separate the two main, different stress test methodologies, the so-called top-down and bottom-up approach, differences in estimates are logical and expected. Fewer complications have been expected since the beginning of this process, i.e. complications and influences in the selection of operators of these careful reviews and stress tests. The most doubts and uncertainties are related to Deloitte’s audit company, both with regard to the selection of this NLB review company due to conflicts of interest, since the company has also carried out regular audits, as well as to its methodology or compliance with international accounting standards. As part of the research and investigation work, the Commission found that the transfer of claims and other related processes, which fall under the auspices of the resolution of the banking system, were partly untransparent, as several irregularities, infringements of the rules and suspicions of criminal services were committed. The decision on the selection of claims for the transfer list and the final selection itself and the validation of the list were impractical and opaque. In particular, there was a discrepancy in the selection of claims with the applicable government regulation and certain items were thus included in the transfer lists, although the conditions were not met. However, some remained in business banks, although they should be transposed after the regulation was adopted. The Investigative Commission notes that different criteria were used in the preparation of the transfer list, despite a certain degree of logical interbank coordination on individual committees, which had so-called bad credits in several different business banks and therefore made sense to consolidate them. It was also found that in some cases informal pressure was exerted on the listmaker to possibly include any item on the transfer list or on the list. Initially, the banks were the ones that had drawn up the basic list and, in the course of the hearings, the Commission of Inquiry found that the government regulation for such a process had been overly relaxed. Since the list has been supplemented on several occasions, regular dialogue has been established with the Bank of Slovenia, the European Commission and the Inter-Resort Commission, which was established under the Government's law and essentially monitored and led the process of resolution of the banking system. However, in the context of all of this, there have been many different interpretations and criteria, the items of which may be part of the transfer to the DUTB and which may not. Even in the phase where some items have already been listed, informal pressures have arisen to remove certain items from the list. The list of claims and other assets transferred to the DUTB was definitively confirmed by the Government. In the course of the investigation, the Commission also found a conflict of interest and suspicion of irregularities in some other parts which were an integral part of the resolution of the banking system. In particular, there have been unreasonable decisions or actions in the context of the selection of operators for a careful review of banks. A summary of the essential findings can be found on page 110 of the report. If I do. By transferring claims to a bad bank, it has begun to fulfil the tasks mandated by the Act on Measures to Strengthen Bank Stability. This type of operation of a bad bank will be checked by the Commission of Inquiry at the next stage when it focuses in particular on the management and sale of claims and assets. The Commission of Inquiry therefore proposes to the National Assembly today, as a formal conclusion to the first part of the investigation, this entire interim report, or all its essential findings, for adoption. In addition, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly a decision at two points, which requires the Commission of Inquiry to forward the entire interim report to the National Investigation Office and to the Specialised State Prosecutor’s Office as a role or indication of the suspected crime of abuse of the situation and to forward the same report to the Commission for the prevention of corruption as a role or the indication of suspected conflicts of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u235	Thank you very much. In order to introduce the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags. Peter Ješovnik, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u236	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor! The National Assembly is today discussing the interim report on the parliamentary investigation of abuses and non-economic behaviour in the DUTB. Since its inception, DUTB has received considerable attention from various institutions and from the general public. In this sense, the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry in question is no surprise. Parliamentary investigation is a constitutional institution with which the National Assembly exercises the function of wider social control. The interim report, which is currently under consideration, shows the considerable volume of documentation obtained and reviewed, the large number of hearings conducted and the effort made in the preparation of the interim report. The interim report examines the behaviour of the various stakeholders during the transfer of claims from the bank to the DUTB, while the management of claims and assets and their sale will be checked by the investigative commission at the next stage. My aim is thus to clarify today, in particular, the role of the Ministry of Finance, which, in the context of the procedures leading to the transfer of claims from principal state-owned commercial banks to the DUTB, has been included in the legislative process, which is also described in detail in the interim report under the chapter of the essential findings. Thus, in the legislative process, the Ministry of Finance drafted a proposal for a law on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, which was adopted at the end of 2012 and was based on which the DUTB was also established. That law governs the functioning of the DUTB and measures to strengthen the stability of banks. The Ministry of Finance further prepared a proposal for a amendment to this Act, which was adopted in 2015 and further clarified the situation and competences of the DUTB. In addition to the preparation of that legislation, the Ministry of Finance has participated in the preparation of other normative bases that further regulate the implementation of the RS Act on measures to strengthen the stability of banks and the functioning of the DUTB, which has prepared proposals: for the first time, the Regulation implementing measures to strengthen the stability of banks and its subsequent amendments, secondly, the guidelines for the functioning of the DUTB, thirdly, the statute of the DUTB, fourthly, the remuneration policy. With regard to the role of the Ministry of Finance in the process of transferring claims to the DUTB, it should be pointed out that the Ministry, at the time, has taken care, inter alia, of administrative and technical support to the Interdepartmental Commission, which addressed official proposals to the Government for decisions on measures to strengthen the stability of banks. The Ministry of Finance has also drawn up proposals for government decisions based on decisions of the Interdepartmental Commission. In its decisions, the Interdepartmental Commission has taken into account the requirements laid down in the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks and in more detail in the Regulation on the implementation of measures to strengthen the stability of banks. In its decisions, the Interdepartmental Commission also took into account the opinion of the DUTB and the opinions, findings and documents of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with the law, the Ministry of Finance also monitors the compliance of the DUTB business without prejudice to specific business decisions, but given that the interim report focuses primarily on the phase of the transfer of claims from banks to DUTB, this role at this point probably does not need to be clarified in particular. It should also be pointed out that the tasks and responsibilities of the DURB Assembly are exercised by the Government as the sole shareholder. As a result, the Ministry of Finance also prepared a number of government materials related to the establishment of the DUTB, its capital, its statutes and the like. Let me conclude by providing the requested documentation to the Commission of Inquiry in April 2019 and July 2019. This is a large-scale dossier which has allowed the Commission to take an in-depth look at the matter necessary for its effective work. Thank you for your attention. Vice President, thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u237	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u238	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Commission of Inquiry for the purpose of clarifying abuses and non-economic behaviour in the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, the so-called bad bank, was set up in this reference to the National Assembly with a view to definitively examining and clarifying the evidence and doubts as to the irregularities that have occurred since the establishment of the bad bank eight years ago. The findings that the Commission of Inquiry may publish at this time suggest that the bank hole was created in silence and long before there was a clear need for bank recovery. The public part of the report clearly shows that the problems in banks have arisen for many years. We can also confirm at this stage that the system of transfer of claims from banks to DUTB was absolutely imprecise and imprecise and that some claims were not transferred should have been and others were transferred, although they were not a bad claim and should not have been made at all. There have also been informal influences and pressures on decision makers, conflicts of interest and unreasonable actions in the selection of external operators. We can also confirm at this stage that the system of responsibility has been vaguely designed. Therefore, it is extremely difficult today to determine exactly who was responsible for making individual decisions. If we didn't know we were talking about investigating the DUTB irregularity, we might think it was any other affair that's been going on in recent years. The observant observer will see without effort the connections and similarities with many other affairs that marked Slovenian independence. The findings of this commission also reinforce the idea that all Slovenian affairs and irregularities are created in the same pattern. First time. First, the problem is growing slowly, but there is no way to find agreement to start dealing with it. Another time. The problem usually comes on the agenda only when external factors force us to do so, when the problem erupts in all its intensity, time, and opportunities for minor gradual and less painful adjustments — the need to save lives, as the current government would call it. That is why every Slovenian affair is brewed at the end of the day when a rescue team is gathered from all winds, whose task is to implement quickly and forcefully everything that has not been done before. At this stage, however, there is usually no hearing or doubt about questions. Then there's the reform. The reform has been carried out. In order not to dismantle new achievements, the structures created must be designed in such a way that democratic control over them is extremely difficult and the independent institution is only responsible for itself. And when the issue is finally being explored, the players miraculously lose their memory, the responsibility cannot be established, since the system was originally designed in such a way that responsibility is not clear. Your Honor, all of this has obviously happened in the establishment and operation of a bad bank. The data collected clearly show how banks used cheap money during the period following Slovenia's entry into the European Union and how they became increasingly dependent on it. The capital adequacy of banks has been declining since 2007 and their profitability has been sought in increasingly risky transactions. This is not only the fault of the bank, it is also the responsibility of the State as the owner and of course the Bank of Slovenia, which did not point out that it was trying to prevent what its mission should be. When the situation of the deepened economic crisis escalated, there was no much alternative at all. Since then, the story has evolved according to the logic of the creation of all Slovenian affairs. The second government of Janez Janša prepared the legal basis for the establishment of the DUTB at the end of autumn 2012. With the surrender of power to the new government, Alenka Bratušek was setting up a bad bank in the middle of the run. Facing the seriousness of the situation, including the international institutions – the European Commission, the European Central Bank – have not shown mercy. The consequences of poor and fast-formed legislation, an extremely loose system to identify conflicts of interest among key actors and decision makers on the establishment of a bad bank, as well as the system of transfer of claims, have thus led to serious irregularities, potential damage to state property and, last but not least, potential crimes. During the first phase of the investigation, the Commission focused mainly on the role of the Interdepartmental Commission, the Bank of Slovenia and also commercial banks in preparing a list of claims to be transferred to the DUTB. In particular, the potential conflict of interest was identified in the decision-making of stress tests and the contractor. The selection of the contractor, which took place in an absolute non-transparent manner and which raises doubts of conflict of interest in favour of one individual, is another indicator of a system built on wrong and loose foundations. What we can see here is undoubtedly that the system for transferring claims to a bad bank was by no means immune to political pressures or other forms of informal pressure. It is also a fact that the system was deliberately established so that, in fact, no one was directly responsible for the final decision. For example, Banka Slovenije had no role in drawing up the list, its role was solely to support and coordinate the preparation of the list, and the role of the list was to be exclusively in the hands of commercial banks, while at the same time different institutions, such as the Ministry of Finance and Banka Slovenije, decided definitively on the list of claims that were to be transferred, resulting from hearings by representatives of commercial banks. From all of this, we can conclude that the loose legislation, the system of shared responsibility between commercial banks, the interdepartmental group, the Ministry of Finance, the Government and the Bank of Slovenia have enabled the establishment of a model model model of avoidance of responsibility, where an informal decision was actually made by a number of, and formally none of the political summits and regulators, but only commercial banks. These are all findings so far. And if we can already at this point identify a number of shortcomings and harmfulities in the establishment of the DUTB, the next phase of the investigative commission will be crucial, as the focus will be on examining documentation and all the hidden procedures that have not been really known to the public so far, because, after the transfer of claims and the right start of the operation of the bad bank, it will turn into silence and very limited communication with the key public, and it already raises certain doubts and doubts. Although we do not want to use today's debate in the Group of Social Democrats for a new round of accusations and naming the names of the culprits. What the Commission's findings can show us right now is how not to deal with the accumulated problems. Dearly beloved, it is worrying when all major irregularities have a similar appearance. The method of creating and operating DUTB is similar to the method chosen for emergency purchases of protective equipment, it has many parallels to how disputed energy facilities were built and how the capital received its football stadium. Therefore, the most effective conclusion of this report will be that even the most critical situation cannot be an excuse for forced solutions, reckless business and the dismantling of democratic control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u240	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! The company for bank claims management, or so-called bad bank, was created in excruciating economic circumstances at the turnover between 2012 and 2013, when the so-called double-bottom crisis cut itself into all times of our lives. When we look back today on events from a few years ago, at least as far as the rehabilitation of the banking system is concerned, we can conclude that this recovery was extremely expensive, unfortunately it is highly recognized and, above all, untransparent. The main task of the DUTB was to assist systemic banks with liquidity and solvency problems. The aim was to reduce the total cost of the resolution of the banking system, the system to stabilise, actively manage and participate in the restructuring of the economy and eventually sell off assets at the highest possible price when the market situation stabilises. In this way, he prevented the collapse of our entire banking system, which was not as far away as we might assume today. However, there are doubts that there have been more uneconomic and perhaps even unlawful decisions, including crimes, in the operation of a bad bank so far. There is also suspicion that the functioning of the bad bank has further increased the problem of the bank hole and constituted a deepening of the bank. The Court's reports and the Commission's findings on anti-corruption problems the way in which the bad bank has operated since its establishment, as well as criminal investigations, government reports, the resulting staff exchanges and various media records do not exactly testify to DUTB's fair business practices. In the previous mandate, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by the SMC, faced the challenges associated with the bad bank, which led it to react quickly. It dissolved the DUB leadership and gave the State, as its sole owner, greater powers in the management, control and personnel of the bad bank by amending the sectoral law. It is clear that these measures have not been sufficient to address all risks and irregularities. Most of the evidence of imprudent business is generated by the very area of property sales, mainly claims and real estate. There are suspicions that some of the buyers selected were also the original debtors or closely related persons. In this way they were given the opportunity to buy back their pre-charged assets at heavily discounted values, and the difference was paid by taxpayers. Such practices are simply unacceptable and we have also contributed signatures in the SMC Group to the establishment of the Investigation Commission on the identification of abuses and non-economic behaviour in the DUTB. We rightly expect the Commission to examine, until the end of this mandate, all circumstances and possible doubts as to the way in which the bad bank is formed, the transfer of bad claims and investments, the management of the bad bank, and to determine whether the functioning of the DUTB alone constitutes a systemic risk and the continuation or even deepening of the bank hole. After a good year since the establishment of the investigative commission and after reviewing a number of documents and hearings of several persons involved in the establishment and operation of the DUTB, we have prepared and adopted an interim report, which, inter alia, concludes that the process of transferring risk items from banks to the DUTB and the method of selecting claims has not been transparent, as more irregularities, infringements and suspicions of criminal service have been committed. There have also been illegal direct or direct influences and pressures on certain key decision-makers in the context of the process of transfer of claims and assets to the DUTB and in other related parts in the context of the resolution of the banking system. Some of these actions also had financial and material consequences. We also note that the course of the selection of claims for the transfer and final selection list and the validation of the list has been opaque and opaque. Thus, certain claims were included in the DUTB transfer lists, although the conditions were not met and some remained in banks, and should be transposed according to the criteria. We need to know that the Interdepartmental Commission has played a decisive role in the resolution of the banking system and that it has been in conflict of interest during the course of its operations. In particular, there have been unreasonable actions and suspicions of conflicts of interest in the selection of operators for a careful review of banks. Thus, within the Interdepartmental Commission, some wanted to influence the fact that a particular contract and the implementation of part was obtained by a specific company. Finally, we have also revealed that in some cases circumstances have arisen that have allowed the leakage and abuse of internal information available to the Inter-Resort Commission. This risk was then realized, as the Interdepartmental Commission also began to decide on matters for which it was not competent. In view of the above findings and other disclosures, we will support the proposal in the SMC Group that the Commission of Inquiry should submit an interim report and additional interim reports to the National Investigation Office and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office as a statement of the suspicion of the crime of abuse of the situation and that the report shall also forward the Commission with a view to preventing corruption as a statement of suspicions of conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u242	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! We supported the establishment of a commission of inquiry in Levica, provided that the investigation covered the period from 2009 onwards when the first calls for the establishment of a bad bank appeared in the public eye. We also wanted the Commission to carefully revise the activities of key political actors in the other Janša government, who participated in the establishment of a bad bank, but did not do so by the Commission. The introductory part of the report is intended to analyse the situation of banks prior to recovery. It acts as an excuse to prove that the establishment of a bad bank was necessary and the only possible solution. But we must say that most other countries in Europe have chosen different options to address the financial crisis in their banks. In the European Union, only 12 countries have set up a bad bank, the rest of the European Union and most other countries around the world have solved the banking crisis differently. We in Levica have long stressed that the bad bank has been a bad idea since the beginning, as it was based on the principle of privatisation of profits and cost sharing. Slovenian economists, such as Dr. Ivan Ribnikar and Dr. Jože Mencinger, have also warned about this before the bad bank was established. They have rightly warned that the plan of the State's bad bank is a solution that will become significantly more important than the establishment of internal bad banks or the direct state recapitalisation of banks. They also rightly pointed out that the bad bank will not be able to know the situation in each individual company, so that it will not be able to properly value the bad loans itself and will ultimately fail to recover them. In mockery of these warnings, a state-run bank was established during the second Janša government, as required by so-called young economists, gathered around Dr. Janez Šuštersič. Such a bad bank has been conceived from the beginning as a fast selling institution. The original Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, which was radically amended in 2015, required the bad bank to sell 10% of its claims each year. Instead of creating a bad bank as a necessary, only rational and only rational solution, our parliamentary investigative commission could at least examine the prudence, rationality and cost-effectiveness of setting up a bad bank compared to other possible solutions. We are also surprised in Levica by the Commission's conclusion that AQR should be implemented in accordance with international accounting standards and that Banka Slovenije did not have a significant impact on the AQR methodology. Such an attitude is largely based on the hearings of Boštjan Jazbec, Stanislave Zadravec Caprirolo and Mitje Mavka, who of course claimed that everything was fine because it is in their interest. On the contrary, the Commission of Inquiry did not hear any other interested parties. It also did not address an objection by Gorenjska banka, in which the valuer of the quality of the bank's capital explicitly states that the AQR was not implemented in accordance with international accounting reporting standards. In addition, the Commission of Inquiry did not analyse the valuation of the portfolio of Gorenjska Banka. The Bank of Gorenje was the only bank to object to the Bank of Slovenia’s findings on the financial situation of banks. With precisely reasoned objections, Gorenje Bank managed to convince Banka Slovenije that the 328-million-dollar hole calculated by Gorenje Bank had never existed. From the required recapitalisation of EUR 328 million, the Bank of Slovenia, in the appeal procedure, has agreed to EUR 15 million or 20 times less than its original request. It is also not possible to agree with the conclusion of the Commission of Inquiry that the Bank of Slovenia did not have a significant impact on evaluation. The opposition from Gorenjska banka, which I have just stated, which the Commission has not dealt with, although it is highlighted, shows that the results of the review of the Gorenjska bank are based on the data previously agreed with the Bank of Slovenia. The interim report should also include a critical analysis of the catastrophic scenarios on the basis of which stress tests were designed. We are aware that any stress test should take into account adverse scenarios, of course we do not dispute that. Nevertheless, the Commission of Inquiry could carry out at least a critical evaluation of the fact that the European Commission and the Central Bank of Slovenia have identified input data for stress tests showing an extremely catastrophic situation in Slovenia. For 2015, a 9.5% drop in gross social product, a 23% drop in investment and an 18% drop in demand were foreseen. On the basis of this unrealistic scenario, we have pushed more than €5 billion of public money into banks in Slovenia. We will vote against the interim report in Levika, because it is more than revealing the actions at issue to sweep them under the carpet.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u244	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! A year and a half ago, in this Chamber of the National Assembly, we addressed the request for a parliamentary inquiry submitted by a group of 89 Members with the first-signed Jozet Horvato. By then demonstrating unity and a clear political will to investigate the operations of the DUTB and to detect alleged irregularities, this was certainly the best way forward for the work of the investigative commission. And, as we find today, the decision to set up an investigative commission was correct. I myself have taken the lead of the Investigation Commission on the detection of abuses and uneconomic behaviour in DUTB only recently, but from what I have been able to learn in the last three weeks, it is clear that the commission under the leadership of Jernej Vrotec has done an excellent job and has once and for all cleared up some of the unanswered questions that have arisen regularly in the public. All of this can be seen from the interim report which we confirm at this meeting. In public as well as within the walls of the National Assembly, we have repeatedly been able to listen to the evidence that the transfer of claims was untransparent and that the AQR and stress tests, in particular in the case of NLB, resulted in a greater number of errors or irregularities. The Commission of Inquiry paid particular attention to this and examined the proportionality of the implementation of the AQR and stress tests in the NLB, the examination of the procedures on the supervisory boards and their decisions on the transfer of claims, and found that NLB had worked all the steps in cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia and the European Commission. According to the interim report, the Commission of Inquiry found that NLB, in cooperation with the European Commission, had prepared a set of measures in early January 2013, followed by a calculation of the real economic value according to the methodology provided by the European Commission. The latter was also a condition for issuing a final decision and then transferring claims to the DUTB. The next step was to review the quality of the portfolio or so-called AQR and stress tests, with data obtained from the AQR being the input data for the stress test and both being the condition for the European Commission to issue the final decision. The Commission also examined the AQR 2013 methodology and compared it with parallel asset assessment approaches and with subsequent AQRs, in particular those in 2014 and did not find any significant deviations. Moreover, the 2014 methodology was even stricter, including the testimony of the former vice-governor of Banka Slovenije Stanislave Zadravec Caprirolo. During the investigation, no indications were found that the Bank of Slovenia would have any direct impact on the AQR prudential review methodology. In 2013, guidelines were in place for its implementation, and in March 2014, an official manual was issued by the ECB in cooperation with the EBA. However, the guidelines and the official manual clearly provided for the implementation of the AQR to take into account international accounting standards. Consequently, we can conclude that in view of the situation at the time in the bank and the circumstances at the time, and the fact that NLB itself assessed the risk, resulting in a high share of the poor claims, the transfer of State aid through the transfer of bad claims to the DUTB was the only possible and meaningful one. Any other option, as can be seen from the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry, would result in higher costs both for the bank and for the entire Slovenian economy. All of this does not mean that everything was going on in the rehabilitation of the banking system without potentially highly controversial conduct. Thus, it is already clear from the part of the Commission of Inquiry and its meetings that the list for the transfer of claims to the DUTB has adjusted that certain companies have tried to lobby more important actors and that certain interest associations have sent different letters on behalf of certain companies and that in some parts they have expressed conflicts of interest, as is the case with point 4.5 of the additional interim report. However, the Commission of Inquiry has clearly proved once again that the bank hole actually existed, and we can rightly wonder why the main culprits for its creation have not been responsible for it for almost a decade after the financial crisis. Let me just read you a few numbers. The share of bad loans, i.e. those for which it appears that the borrower is unlikely to repay the loan due to financial difficulties, or where the borrower has not paid the agreed instalment in more than 90 years, in the euro area loan portfolio, as shown on the 64th page of the report, was 7.68% in 2013 and in the Slovenian banks 20.4%, NKBM 25.46%, Celje Banka 33.4% and the Banka, which is an incredible 46.1%. The question of what kind of bank this is and how bad leadership must be, how virtually every other loan given is bad, and how no one has ever been responsible for it. I regret only that the documentation bears the mark of bank secrecy and therefore we cannot tell the entire Slovenian public in detail how, while ordinary citizens have difficulty obtaining loans for the purchase of apartments, selected companies have received multimillion-dollar loans that have had poor or even non-existent insurance. In New Slovenia, we have warned for many years that we need a new legislative framework for the prosecution of banking crime, but above all that the country does not exist to manage banks and that their privatisation was therefore necessary. Many of the problems addressed by this Commission of Inquiry, namely, stem from the state ownership of banks. See, for example, the direct threatening table on the 67th page of the interim report showing the country credit portfolio structure at the time of the NLB State Group. It shows that NPLs are bad loans, and in some countries they have exceeded even 90%. See Slovakia, 91.1%, Bulgaria 93.2%, Austria 97.7%. How is it even possible that virtually all the loans given in these countries are bad, and at the same time no one in the branch office has ever been responsible? It is more than obvious that NLB was inadequately managing the risks and that the account for unsanctioned mismanagement of this once state bank was finally issued to all Slovenians. How can we explain this to the taxpayers who eventually paid for the rehabilitation of these banks? How do we explain to these same citizens that obviously NLB bankers will not be persecuted in the Farrokh case, where the State Prosecutor's Office and the NPU have taken the opposite position as two State Assembly investigative committees, each of them with their diametrically opposed political omens. Of course, the President and the members of the investigative commissions do not have handcuffs, and we therefore rely on a functioning justice system that is supposed to prosecute detected crimes during the work of the investigative commission. And that is what all Slovenians can rightly expect from him. In doing so, it should be noted that the situation in which as many as two investigative committees led by people with diametrically opposite political orientations and their report are unanimously confirmed by Members who, unlike the general public, have access to all confidential and secret documents is not sustainable. After all, all of those working in the investigative commissions should not present or disclose confidential documents to the public, but all the perpetrators, hiding behind bank secrecy and various levels of confidentiality, feel safe. That is why it is so important for the prosecution and the police to receive a court epilogue during the course of the work of the investigative commissions. This is the only way to prevent all those who may be thinking about serving new crimes in Slovenian banking. At the same time, the seized documentation, which the police and the prosecution also have access to, often confirms exactly what public witnesses do not remember, which is an extremely common phenomenon. Even at the hearings of the Investigation Commission on the detection of abuses and non-economic behaviour in DUTB, we were able to monitor individual DUTB senior officials who answered the questions of the investigative commission most often with either I do not know or I do not remember. This is an opportunity for the entire Slovenian public to be monitored at the hearing on 4. 11. 2019, when Mitja Mavko was interviewed at the time, and especially Janez Škrubej used the phrase “I don’t remember” three and a half times, the latter claimed, inter alia, that, although he had signed the contract as the company’s director, he was not responsible for it and its contents. Of course, as Mrs Meira Hot, a fellow Member of Parliament, said during the hearing, this undermines confidence in the law. And it is precisely because of such answers and the forgetfulness of some of the Witnesses that it is so important for the investigation commission to thoroughly investigate the DUTB and all its business, even though some of its main actors have long since lost their memory. In New Slovenia, we will support the interim report of the investigative commission, while we are aware that there is still a lot of hard work ahead of the commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u246	Your Honor, thank you for your word. The transfer of bad claims to DUTB enabled the law on measures for the stability of banks adopted by the National Assembly in October 2012 during the time of the government of Janez Janša. On the basis of the law, the Government of Janez Janša adopted a Regulation in March 2013 implementing measures to strengthen the stability of banks, specifying in more detail which claims qualify for transfer. The law received a number of comments from the profession due to ambiguity, inadequacy and indiscretion. The proposed law and the majority of members of the National Assembly did not follow the warnings of the profession, to follow the practices of other countries and to establish the value of the bank in a very transparent manner following the transfer of bad claims to the DUTB. And today, after eight years of investigation, the Commission notes that the law that allowed the transfer of bad claims to the DUTB contains a series of risks, contradictions and inconsistencies and that the regulation which has set out more detailed rules for transposition is too loose. The second key finding of the Commission of Inquiry is that the choice of transferable claims was imprudent and imprudent. Various stakeholders, representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, business banks, the Government and the European Commission participated in the composition and validation of the strawberry selection of claims. There have been disagreements and differing interpretations as to which claims comply with the conditions laid down in the Regulation and which do not. Unfinished laws have allowed procedures, leakage and misuse of internal information, the purchase of claims by the original debtors, the dispersion of the responsibilities of the main actors and the exercise of pressure on list preparers. It was found that one of the members of the Interdepartmental Commission wanted to influence in various ways that the Careful Review Treaty was signed with a specific company. Does all of you, too, soundly remind you of the irregular adoption of legislation with anti-korona measures, the state's current debt to record 82.4% of GDP, to the procedure of acquiring masks under the tactics of Prime Minister Janez Janša? Whether history will repeat itself, I wonder. In the SAB Party, we know what it's like to save the country and people. In 2013, we were faced with the fact that we were ahead of an empty budget fund and a plan to rehabilitate banks by transferring bad claims to the DUTB. The government of Janez Janša has taken action and left their realisation and financial implications to the rescue of the new government. The rehabilitation of our banks was the only possibility that in Slovenia we avoided bankruptcy of the country, the troika and the Greek script. The responsibility for the state of the banks rests with all past governments, because they have for a number of years thought instead of taking structural measures. It was only after the presidency of Alenka Bratušek that our economy began to grow. We provided pensioners with money for pensions, public servants, nurses, police officers and everyone else with money for salaries. How sad it is that today no one deals with those who have dug a bank hole years before. I will only list a few companies that have helped with this with hundreds of millions of euros, namely Zvon 1, Zvon 2, T-2. I probably don't need to stress in particular who these companies are connected to. As was necessary for banks eight years ago, rapid and effective action is now essential to curb the spread of infection in order to protect human life and the economy. However, not in a way that gives the government the possibility of authoritarianising the budget and raises questions about the transparency of public spending. The findings of the Commission of Inquiry show how the Government of the then and current Prime Minister of the Government is managed. In view of the fact that the government has not yet presented to us a plan to drive Slovenia out of the crisis and to strengthen our economy, the SAB rightly fears that Slovenia will bite again into an acid apple after the reign of Janez Janša [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u247	I ask you very much, Mr Member, to respect Rule 75(2) of the Rules of Procedure and to speak only of what is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u248	That's it. I call for a record high public debt of the country to be reduced without cuts in salaries and pensions. We rightly wonder how the continuation of the parliamentary investigation will take place, as the conflict of interest between the current Minister of Finance and the DUTB in the sky is evoking. Mr Andrej Šircelj was Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance and took the Chair of the Management Board after the establishment of the DUTB. The then government, together with Mr Shirtzle, has set up a DUB steering team, which is supposed to be part of the right-wing EPP – the European People's Party, that is, the European People's Party. With the takeover of the ministerial function, Andrej Šircelj regained his influence in the DUTB, as he will decide to abolish it today, tomorrow. We will not be surprised if any of the following investigative committees will determine whether Mr Shircelj has abolished the DUTB, because the legal conditions are met or that all irregularities will be swept away once and for all under the carpet. In the SAB, we want to finally identify mistakes and irregularities, move on and finally start dealing with the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u250	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Secretary of State! Today we are discussing the interim report on the parliamentary investigation of abuses and non-economic behaviour in the DUTB. This report shall be limited to the functioning of the Commission of Inquiry established at the end of January 2019 and shall address at the closed part of the meeting an additional interim report, including banking secrecy, business secrecy, tax secrecy and the protection of personal data, and a second interim report, which shall be confidential. For this reason, I will focus in my position on an interim report which is publicly available. The report provides a description of the procedures for the resolution of the Slovenian banking system, which led to the transfer of state-owned commercial banks' claims to the DUTB. The DUTB was transferred to a total gross value of 4.9 billion claims. The claims were transferred in December 2013 from NLB and NKBM and in December 2014 the claims of Abanka and Banka Celje were transferred. The claims of Factor Bank and Probank have also been transferred. In November 2015, DUTB and Probank joined. All these transfers were checked by the investigative commission. The conclusion of the interim report on the parliamentary investigation of abuses and non-economic behaviour in DUTB shows that the transfer of claims and other related processes falling under the auspices of the banking system were not transparent. More irregularities, violations and suspicions of criminal services have been committed. The process of deciding on the selection of claims for the list, the transfer and the final selection itself and the validation of the list was impractical and opaque. For this reason, we will support the decision of the Parliamentary Group to instruct the Investigative Commission to submit an interim report, an additional interim report and a second interim report to the National Investigation Office and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office as a role, indicating the suspicions of the crime of abuse of the situation. We also support all these reports to be sent to the Commission to prevent corruption as a role or to raise suspicions of conflict of interest. We certainly expect the law enforcement authorities to play their part and investigate all alleged cases of damage to the state budget, property in the DUTB, including on the basis of all interim reports in the parliamentary investigation of abuses and non-economic behaviour in the DUTB. In the Desus Group, we believe that non-economic behaviour must be pursued and managed transparently and responsibly with state property belonging to the DUTB. This role is clear because it was set up to help clean up bad claims in banks of systemic importance that were in difficulty. Following the transfer of claims to the DUTB, its role changed in January 2016 as a major restructuring of companies. In any event, since the establishment of the DUTB, the objectives have remained the same – to restructure and manage assets by maximising the value of assets and to the greatest extent by paying off state assets. All of this will be investigated in the next part of the Commission of Inquiry, including by identifying the responsibility of the holders of public functions. The Commission of Inquiry will therefore continue its investigation and sale of claims and assets management. We certainly want to find out what were the public institutions that acted contrary to the objectives of ensuring that the highest possible amount is recovered for us taxpayers. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u252	Thank you very much. This interim report on the parliamentary investigation of abuses and non-economic behaviour of the Bank Management Company has disappointed us a little. We were counting on more concrete, better results and more. Although I must say that this Commission has found significantly more than the NPU has found, which in fact does not have these results and these evidence collected by the Commission – it is probably not even interested in it, as it appears. The laws concerning the DUTB, the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks and the Regulation on the implementation of measures to strengthen the stability of banks, contained a series of risks, contradictions and inconsistencies. This law was poorly, purposefully, and in a way that allowed abuse. The process of transfer of claims and other related processes falling under the auspices of the banking system was not transparent, as more irregularities, infringements and suspicions of the criminal service were committed. In my opinion, crimes have been committed, but we can only talk about suspicions. I hope someone finds out more or that they'll process things. Weak loans were directed primarily at construction and financial organisations and services, of course certain persons. Unlawful indirect and direct impacts on certain key decision-makers on individual decisions in the context of the transfer of claims and assets to the DUTB have been observed. Some acts also had financial and material consequences, not small ones. The decision-making process on the selection of claims, the final selection itself and the validation of the list of claims were untransparent, opaque, incomplete. The choice of claims was also incompatible with the Regulation alone. Some of the risk items did not meet the conditions for listing the transfer to the DUTB and other risk items to be transferred to the DUTB were not transferred. The reasons certainly exist, and these reasons should be discovered by the NPU or the Special Prosecutor's Office, and so far nothing. All of this, of course, was due to informal pressure on list makers. Although different interpretations between banks occurred on the claim list, this is said between Banka Slovenije, between the European Commission and the Inter-Resort Commission, all the responsibility for the list of claims was finally taken over by the current government and, of course, it was finally confirmed by this list, too. Why? It also raises the question of why, how, who had the potential benefit, or who had the benefit of it. In the context of the selection of operators for the prudential review of banks, there was a conflict of interests and suspicions of irregularities. And there's a whole bunch of questions that need to be answered someday. The fact is, however, that there are many irregularities in the functioning of the DUTB, both the Court of Auditors and the KPK have already found. Although KPK is one kick into the darkness, they saw something after all. And if I were to finish it all together, I would ask if any of all the banking experts and economists that we say we have so much and so good, could actually tell me how big the bank hole actually was. Today, after 10 years, we might already know. Why don't we know that today? Who is the one who is blocking, who is the one who does not allow all this to come to the public, and who benefits from it? In fact, we do not know how undervalued the transfer of claims to the DUTB was. The whole thing was sold, the property was sold too fast and too cheap. DUTB should sell when this was the best in terms of the individual type of property. That didn't happen. It happened that at times, there was a deliberate drop in the knowledge that certain entities could have bought those properties or something else for lower money, and immediately after purchase the value had increased. Strange, interesting, and indicative. If we take just one example, let's say the real estate prices sold by DUTB for example in 2013 were much lower than the real estate prices in 2019. Then why didn't they sell them later? It's sold at the most convenient time if you want the country well and if you want the country to get as much of it as possible. But if you want someone else to benefit from it, then you do what the DUTB did. In the Slovenian National Party, we are very disappointed at the work of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims and DUTB, in fact, should be abolished as soon as possible and transferred to SDH. At the end of the day, we're wondering where there's an NPU investigation. She's not here. They do not have the expertise to deal with this, so it is most reasonable that the NPU is indeed terminated. Because we don't need an NPU like Mrs Kresalova did on the political line. After all, we do not need the Slovenian FBI, because we are still one, a united country, even though we still have a congregation – as I see in the documents in English, it is still not a national assembly, it is not a parliament, it is a public assembly. In short, perhaps this is somehow a preparation for some strange future variants of state change and the positions of countries in political spaces. In short, the NPU has not done anything here, nor has the NPU requested any documents or evidence of these matters from the Commission. And as it turns out, they don't even care. I don't know what that's gonna be. This interim report is a matter which must be good to a certain extent – in fact it is not good, but better than nothing – but it is only the beginning of the work of the Commission, this real commission that will have to finish the work. I think there are actually real economic experts on the committee who know what they want, who find and who find, but how this is going to go on, but it's hard to predict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u253	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u254	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us an interim report on the parliamentary investigation carried out on the detection of abuses and mismanagement in the Bank Management Company, a reduced DUTB or a bad bank. We supported and agreed to a parliamentary inquiry within the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party has also actively participated in the parliamentary investigation itself. However, the investigator’s support was, of course, for several reasons. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly pointed out the turn [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u255	Messengers and MPs on my left, please don't disturb the speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u256	The type of irregularities and suspicions of abuse of positions that took place in the DUTB. In fact, we have also drawn attention to some of the non-professional economic practices that have been carried out in this society. The interim report, which is being prepared, will be unanimously supported by the SDS Group, but we are convinced that the work of the Commission of Inquiry must continue and that it also follows the objectives for which the Commission of Inquiry was established. The key points that we have drawn attention to in the Slovenian Democratic Party through previous mandates. In fact, we believe that the DUTB was somehow abused by the institution in its own operation. The fact is that the purpose and the main mission for which DUTB was established was subsequently misused. The purpose was to transfer bad claims from banks to a special company which would then manage these claims effectively, sell these claims on the market and actually reimburse taxpayers for the money spent on the resolution of the banking system. What are the things that we have already warned about in the SDS Group and which have occurred? I'll just count the key issues. That is, the type of irregularity or suspicion of irregularity or unusuality was already in the transfer of claims to the DUTB. Here to date, we still have no answer as to why certain claims have been transferred, why some claims have not been transferred, we have not received sufficient answers even for the value claim itself, and who has actually been the final decision-maker to transfer these claims. We had a series of concerns and comments in the simplified connection of the two banks to the DUTB, that is, the Factor Bank and Probank to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. As a result, we also cautioned that these two simplified connections had to recapitalise DUTB. These were the key things we've been alerting them to. We have also pointed out a certain part of the human resources moves that have been carried out. We have pointed out that the sale of claims alone is why certain claims were sold more than in a non-transparent manner. We also pointed out why the DUTB insisted on a double claim for the bankruptcy of T-2. Even today, we wonder what these consequences will be for taxpayers. The fact is, this is where DUTB lost his cases in court, and things are still going on today. The interim report, which is being prepared and made available to the National Assembly today, is interesting to read, and the findings are interesting, and the fact is that the conclusions we have in this report also advocate and support those comments and the warnings we have already pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the Prime Minister's mandate, Alenka Bratušek, and also in the mandate of the Government of Mir Cerar. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we expect the Commission of Inquiry to continue its work and to inform the National Assembly of the final report as soon as possible. As I said in the introduction, we will unanimously support this interim report in the parliamentary group, and we will also support the proposed conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Igor Peček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, I would like to point out once again that the main purpose of the establishment of the Bank's Claims Management Company was to provide assistance and support for the restructuring of banks. It was transferred to the debtors who were over-indebted, insolvent and dealt with capital inadequacy and was then to manage the assets it had acquired from banks in order to reimburse, to the maximum extent possible, the taxpayers' funds invested in the rehabilitation of the banks. Finally, in the course of the operation and management of the DUTB, it was essential to remain independent of any political guidance or other interests. Time has shown that certain deficiencies have arisen in the management of claims and a parliamentary investigation into the detection of abuses and non-economic behaviour in society was launched at the end of January. The purpose of the parliamentary investigation was and remains to identify all irregularities in the process of transferring claims or other assets to the DUTB and to verify the transparency of the conduct of the procedures. In the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry, it is found that the regulation defining the transfer of risk items is slightly overly defined and that the process of transferring risk items and the method of selecting claims has not been fully transparent. There was a discrepancy between the choice of claims and the current regulation. As we are considering an interim report today, it is clear that what the content of the final report of the Commission of Inquiry will be, we do not yet know for sure, but we know for sure the following. Today, the tasks and activities for which DUTB has been established have been fulfilled and their powers have been exhausted to a certain extent, and it is therefore necessary to consider carefully whether it is now also the right time for us to set a new task for the Bank's Claims Management Company. Of course, the Commission of Inquiry will most likely continue its work. For example, we could take advantage of the potential that society has in the area of real estate management in order to tackle the problem of housing shortages more quickly and effectively for both young and older citizens. All of this is a matter of a broader debate, which goes beyond the scope of today's topic, but is worth mentioning at least because of the importance of it. Many of the facts regarding the findings of the interim report have already been presented, so I would not repeat myself and perhaps present some of our thoughts on how to proceed. In the Marjan Šarca List, we are aware that DUTB currently enjoys a poor reputation in the public eye, but this should not paralyze us that we would not take steps in the right direction within the available options of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. Unfortunately, it is in our habit that we sometimes do not do good projects simply because of the bad experience of the past, because in certain projects it has often failed to effectively control. And as one of the great minds of mankind said: "If you always do things the same way and repeat the same mistakes, you cannot expect the result of your work to be different." One possibility could therefore be that the Bank Claims Management Company, as I have already mentioned, could be transformed into a company that would actively engage in the development of real estate projects and the construction of public rental apartments. We know that the current situation in the country in this area is acute. We're running out of thousands of apartments for young families, thousands of beds for pensioners, we're running out of homes and a lot of student beds. Given that the Bank's Claims Management Company could be sustainable in the long term, both land and facilities are owned, it also has the appropriate staff to carry out these procedures professionally, we believe that this is certainly on the spot. We always like to point out that it is the country that is responsible for ensuring the basic existence, needs and decent lives of people. I certainly agree with this, but we must not forget the other side of the medal, this is the responsibility of our politicians and competent institutions to ensure that all procedures, such as the construction and management of infrastructure facilities, are carried out transparently and in accordance with the rules in force. In view of everything in the List of Marjan Šarc, we believe that DUB could take on a socially responsible role and that with the land and property it owns, it could solve the housing problem of both young and old citizens. Finally, we could help ourselves to cope with demographic challenges that inevitably knock on our door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u259	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interim report, the main findings and on the proposal for a decision submitted by the Commission of Inquiry. I inform you that the amendments to the draft decision have not been tabled. She's the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u260	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I would like to say just a few words as a response to the views presented by the groups. I would reiterate some of the conclusions or conclusions of this interim report, which undoubtedly concluded that certain systemic risks arose in the transfer process. I will repeat them as a starting point for further discussions. The fact is that the interim report found that the Regulation, which provided the criteria for transposition, was overly volatile and allowed for such and different interpretations, differing interpretations; that in this process of transfer claims there was a conflict of interest between certain individuals, who also exceeded their powers in their operation; that internal information had been leaked and the abuse of such internal information was also detected; that attempts to influence that certain claims were included in the transfer list or excluded from the list, depending on certain specific interests. To a certain extent, it may be concluded that there was also a human malpractice factor in the development of the transfer list. These are all systemic risks that somehow left a mark in the process of repairing the Slovenian banking system. And if I refer a little bit to some of the expressed views of the parliamentary groups. Perhaps a key systemic issue, or concern, that was already raised by colleagues from the Left during the investigation process. Indeed, they claimed that the bad bank was a bad idea that they should approach the process of rehabilitating the banking system decentralisedly, that business banks should design their internal bad banks and solve the problematic portfolios each for themselves. This can be confirmed with a certain time-consuming concern. In the first phase, this would certainly be a possible solution, and by no means again in 2012, when the banking system was so-called just before the break, in an extremely poor state. In fact, on the 64th page of the interim report, there is a table showing how those bad loans were at the time before the recovery, in NLB around 20%, NKBM 25%, Bank Celje 33% and Banka Vipa as much as 46% of the bad loans in the portfolio. So the action was necessary at the time and it was also essential that centrally managed, since there was no time to establish individual internal banks. The fact is, that was a long time ago. This fact was then seen in view of the change of government in early 2013, including Alenka Bratušek, who established or took power in March 2013. In spite of the fact that the poor bank's earlier opposition to the project had explicitly opposed it, it has somehow found that this is the only way to get the banking system out of the way. Not only has it continued its objectives, it has even set up all the key mechanisms for carrying out this bank recovery, it is said, it has carried out matters in practice. For before there was such a thing as a legal basis, that is, the law and the regulation in force. So yes, implementation is to the greatest extent the result of the work of the government of Alenka Bratušek, I represent, and also all mistakes, shortcomings have occurred in this mandate. That is why I do not think it is right or right that in this process, when we are looking for where and why mistakes have occurred, some individual parties have sought out some political points, but I think it is correct and correct because it is the money of all taxpayers to find out whether or not something has gone wrong, because the funds for this have meant and still represent a very large part of our common public debt. Maybe just a comment about the possible future role of the DUTB. We don't want DUTB to stay or become political prey. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance pointed out to my explicit question about the potential future role of the DUTB in solving the liquidity, solvency problems of our companies as a result of the coronation that it is specifically committed to the conclusion of its mandate under the applicable law and that any other possible ideas on the extension of its competence to invest in the construction of dwellings or to the home for the elderly would constitute a duplication, since certain institutions for these special matters already exist. So much for now, and then for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u261	Thank you. A colleague of Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First of all, allow me to thank my colleague Monica Gregorčič, who, on behalf of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, presented qualitatively the complementary explanation of the interim report that we are considering today. It might be good to say that, in fact, it consists of three parts: one that we are considering at this open meeting, then we have an additional interim report containing banking secrecy, business secrecy, tax secrecy and the protection of personal data, which will also be discussed in the closed part of this meeting or this item on the agenda, and another additional interim report with the code in confidence. It is said that this material, which was provided to us by the parliamentary investigative commission, consists of three parts. I would also like to thank the first President, Mr Jerne Vrtovac, until recently our colleague, now the Minister of Infrastructure, who has started well with the work of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, and I believe that colleague Alexander Reberšek will continue this with his colleagues and colleagues. Members here should not forget the professional co-workers, who are of exceptional importance in parliamentary investigations and in fact contribute by their own good faith to the knowledge of parliamentary investigative commissions – I speak on purpose in the plural – being of good quality. Maybe a little look back. As soon as the Sharčev government was established, this was a long time ago in the autumn of 2018, in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats thought about preparing the material and proposed it to all parliamentary groups on the basis of which the National Assembly was to set up a parliamentary commission of inquiry. Once again, we are very pleased that 89 Members and Members have signed or signed this proposal, which on the one hand shows that the issue that this parliamentary investigative committee is investigating really needs to be investigated. I only hope and expect that then, in the next phase, those who have handcuffs, because we do not have handcuffs, will also do their duty. There is some hope, in the field of investment Teš 6 something is happening and it is good. This is good for all taxpayers of this country, because people of me, certainly also, when we walk in villages, cities, in connection with a bank hole, a terrible bank hole, ask where these bankers are now, whether they continue to walk freely under the free sun, and say to us: “Take those who have taken us” so the taxpayers. Do we imagine what investment potential Slovenia would have if there was no bank hole? In this context, already when we considered the final report of the so-called Logar Commission, Members of the New Slovenia proposed – and this was then adopted by the National Assembly between conclusions – that the State should establish specialised courts specifically to prosecute the most difficult forms of economic crime and cases of major damage to public funds. We do not yet have this, but we have this in our coalition treaty, and I expect that something will happen in this area as soon as possible, that we will also realize this commitment. Maybe back to the law. The so-called bad bank or the Bank Management Company has done, if I may say so, the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. At the end of 2012, when we adopted this law, we had a serious struggle with the then opposition, which was called Positive Slovenia. This same Positive Slovenia then wanted to go to a referendum with this law. On 17 December 2012, the Constitutional Court decided that a referendum on this marriage could not be held. Our assessment at the time and today that many have simply become very scared has scared the 33rd Article of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, which therefore speaks of the responsibility of the members of the bank management and supervision bodies and the supervisory authorities of banks. It would also be interesting to see how many of these members of the management and control bodies and the supervisory authorities actually carried out Article 33 of the ZUKSB. What does this article say? He's making the next one. The members of the management board of the DUTB shall be – they shall be – obliged to – any suspicion of criminal conduct by members of the management bodies and members of the supervisory authorities of the banks and the supervisory authorities of the banks that they are aware of in relation to the performance of their work, in particular when reviewing credit maps, to notify the competent authorities immediately. The suspension of the duty referred to in the preceding paragraph, which I have just read, shall be regarded as a valid reason for the dismissal or termination of the employment relationship for false reasons. When the final report is in place, I will ask the investigative committee how many such cases there have been, that is, how many of these suspensions have been, and how many dismissals or terminations have been made. This will be very interesting to look at. And one more thing. Notwithstanding the provisions of the law governing offences and the law governing bond relations, criminal offences and indemnity of the members of the bank management and supervisory authorities and the supervisory authorities of the banks who receive measures under this law arising from or in connection with the exercise of the functions of a member of the management or control authority and of the supervisory authority of the banks or of the designated company receiving the measures under this law, they shall expire within an expiry period of four times the general limitation periods laid down by the law governing the offences and the law governing the bond relations. This article was feared by many, and it was therefore a great offensive or great activity to hold a referendum with this law, the ZUKSB, but, according to local words, the Constitutional Court brought this matter to a standstill and came to a standstill. Maybe in the final part of my debate I'll just repeat a few numbers so they won't forget. The total gross assets transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company amounted to EUR 4.9 billion. The transfer value was EUR 1,569 billion. DUTB therefore initially took over the claims of four banks, NLB, NKBM December 2013, Bank October 2014 and Bank Celje December 2014. Transfer prices for NLB, NKBM, Banka and Banka Celje have been fixed by the European Commission irrespective of the first regulation adopted. The Investigative Commission notes that the transfer of funds from banks was carried out at real economic value, as determined by the European Commission. A number of discussions also took place on the value of the transfer of funds at the Interdepartmental Commission. The Bank of Slovenia and the banks had no influence on the transfer values. The Commission also concluded that, in determining the European Commission’s portability, it was an external consultant, Ernst & Young, London. As far as the conclusions are concerned. The New Slovenia Group will support the conclusions as well as all three parts of the interim report. The Commission, which is in some way newly established, of course we want a successful work and that by the end of this mandate, whenever this is the case, the final conclusions will be reached by the final report, which I believe will be adopted by this State Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u263	The word is from a colleague of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that. Since I'm not threatening anyone, it's the last point, and it's going to be splattered, I'm going to be without a mask. I am listening to this, speaking before me in his chronology, the position of the Social Democrats was given by a colleague of Meira, who also made it very clear that the Commission is still awaiting another key work. The investigator’s rapporteur spoke about the fact that it was just before the break, the facts and so forth, and that we are basically dealing with two issues — political responsibility and to what extent inadequate legislation has made this possible. For these banks to be in a state just before the breakup, someone is responsible. Prekmur's colleague mentioned the term bankers. Both bankers and governors as well as vice-governors set up politics. That's basically a fact. The regulator didn't play his part. Somehow, when I heard this today, I remembered the beginning of my study in that old system, but I'm not a jugonostalgic, for the first time I'm too young, for the second time I've been vaccinated against some one-party systems, the one we had at the time, or the authoritarian systems, and also those we have now, but. At that time, no matter what we studied, we listened to that general human resistance, social self-defence, and then we had all two subjects, and the SFRJ's political system, and the SFRJ's economic system. It seems to me that it would not hurt to have one and the other, of course not the SFRJ, but the political and economic system of the Republic of Slovenia. Maybe the other half of high school and all the studies. Why? Look, a society that doesn't understand what a national interest is, not a national interest as an abuse, which was often an excuse, is not worth its existence as a nation. It's not worth the state-of-the-art if I put it that way. One gentleman, whom I very much appreciate working in Slovenian diplomacy, told me at the time as a relatively young diplomat how he had been sick since 1993, 1994 when he saw "that many single-owners came mainly to collect". That's the end of the quote. DUTB is essentially -- I see it as the swan song of our paldish feudalism, if you will. Or: we played capitalism, but we don't know how to create capital, which is of course difficult. Let's face it, this is where all the old politics was involved. That is why I do not have some crazy expectations for this final report. Here the rapporteur has been pointing her finger a little bit at someone, and to me, ma'am, frankly, as a politician, she's not much of a lover, but our societies are so paternalistic that when the heirs fail, then they find a woman and they push. It was the same with that Milka Planinc, if you remember. If I move on. In Maribor, I was told when the NKBM came to see what discount rates would be, there at the meetings two times revolted that it was a little crazy that those companies had some liquidity problems, but that they could restructure credits and work somehow normally further. The answer was, pub, it came from Ljubljana. There they waved with some Excel table, at another meeting they said if anything was wrong with you, as it is called in human language, they'd get the books. I don't know if the investigator's going to get a hold of who did this or any of the Excel tables. We have obvious problems with this excellency, even with that one — what is it? – models for the second track as if it were an Excel rocket technique. Then there was the methodology, and of course there was no methodology, and of course there was a company and a country that didn't take seriously what the national interest was, it could be an EU guinea pig, which we were after all. Since we are in the pastry of the cake, if I say the whole business or the banking sector, the EU was able to play a little bit with us, and then who was it? – some Mr. Székely, who was a little salty there. And probably the best moment of Alenka Bratusek was that "we just need a bit more time", but then we're fooling around how someone speaks English. At that time someone should support it and say to them, "Wait, pubes, don't fuck with the decks," as they say in Maribor, "we won't be a guinea pig." But that didn't happen. And now we're working on some big habubu here, some gentleman who set it up in a outgoing government slept there in some Swedish hotels, is now what? The Finance Minister of that government. It's a mildly embarrassing thing. Then it was the fact that it really became a bad bank, probably someone over some strawed owners, what they would put back, for something bigger, probably someone also promised what a foreigner would buy – the stranger was buying what was profitable. Then you will be the so-called Slovenian liberal: yes, see if we have a foreign owner and this works fine. Yeah, well, I wouldn't buy anything either, which I know won't make me any profit. And DUTB has never really dealt with U-U, with management. You know, when I first met Restoration, it was at the Styria Chamber of Commerce, Restoring became Minister, the whole decommissioned flew into the basement of the Chamber of Commerce, something was talking to him, and then he started begging in front of us, and he said he was at a bad bank, that he hadn't seen that kind of shit that the Swedes had no idea about finances, let alone bank management. And there were quite a few reporters there, and somehow it didn't come out. It is likely that this commission of inquiry will not deal with why this did not happen. We did not seriously deal with bank management or claims, unlike anyone else, these discount rates were too high. You know, I also say in the ranking of this, you need it in the bank, as I often say, what kind of machine engineer can even assess whether or not a loan is water-drinking or can be restructured and so on. Of course, you can give it to an external contractor. If you remember how Cerar's government wanted to destroy Krka through some such study in that term 2014-2018, that very good interview Mr Kolarič gave and, rightly, I agree, sent them somewhere. That I won't be too long. We can bluff up and down as long as we have some predominant policy of a eloquent organigram, as I call it – the affair of the mask is, say, a typical story like this: because we're going to do something by saying it to each other – by then we're not going to break things. Until an integral part of the policy becomes a responsibility – and here I am, I will say, a generous conservative leftist, conservatives talk more about responsibility – as long as we have some negative staffing as long as someone as a secretary of state does what he does, and we will easily return to the parliamentary bench for a week, then we will forget about this, until then there will be no change. All our affairs are very similar in this metric, and they don't really come to an end. And as long as we understand – here we are, let's say, from that unfortunate Pahor government forward all the presidents and the Prime Minister are the same. If you remember, Cerar said back in the fall of 2014 that we are slightly wrong to imagine these community money, that it is more theirs than ours. As long as we've got these boys in too many shoes, they're not going to be able to mix with doughnuts, there's not going to be any major shifts. And I've had, I've said this a number of times, an opportunity to have quite an important conversation with the Norwegian State Secretary for State Property. You don't have to detect hot water. You need some serious supervisors, you need some serious educated people who won't get in their heads, you need people who, unlike the president of the country, can live with a few euros that work but don't work, and then, of course, what we sometimes call our common silver is responsiblely managed. However, I fear that these musculants, who are now going to go through this coalition around the so-called demographic fund – because now they are going to paint the eggs to the current pensioners, that it is for them, even though it is not, that is, in fact, more when they go, I don't know, I retire, and Meira, I will be too late if I live to see it – it will dilute and we will not look at who is qualified for it. And in this society and country, there are people under 40 who know what to say. You know, I'm already sad, and here's when I open the Youth Alternative, and there I always look at the same face, with all due respect for those people, starting with the Nightingale. After all, they will stand on these young worlds, and they will have to create conditions for us to retire. I hope – unfortunately I am not a naive leftist, as is self-defined, I am an optimistic pessimist, and I fear that we will have another related investigator, and I will sit there like Number 1 in what wheelchair I was sitting in. Let's stop blinding ourselves, the name of the problem is us, it's called Slovenian politics, it's called negative staffing, it's called a eloquent organigram, it's called "it doesn't matter what it is, it's important that it's ours," it's called "with every government we change people". It makes sense, then you can't even really learn the job. How many people in Slovenia even understand 5 billion, fuck? That you can even imagine that you're even aware of this responsibility. You know, that State Secretary was attacked in college, probably as a freshman or as a second year old, and they built her up for 30 years to be entrusted with that responsibility, and probably even when the government changed, they didn't change. Same as in repressive resorts. Even in these areas, people who perform these most difficult tasks, the most demanding operations in a society, usually do so for decades, whether the government is left, right, “sharp brown”, whatever the name is, or “nemerarc” or whatever. Until we're capable of this age, I'm afraid there will be no significant movement. For an introduction, however, we need to ask ourselves what kind of society we want to be, what national interest is and what it means to be an active member of the European Union, you know, because we have to be for multilateralism, because they're going to run us over, that we don't have what we have yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u265	Thank you very much. She's got the word "proposer."
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u266	Thank you very much, President. My brief response to Dr. Trčku's debate is now or is the answer. I agree. Political responsibility for a bank hole is a key issue. The Commission of Inquiry has already acted on this subject in its previous mandate and has also completed its work, but it is, unfortunately, also this truth that no law enforcement authorities or courts have yet given any epilogue. As regards the question that this interim report has not yet provided some concrete answers on political responsibility, I would just like to point out that this is an interim report dealing with the transfer of bad claims to the DUTB in the first phase, and that we can also discuss those names in the closed session tomorrow if you want. For even such detailed findings have been made by this commission in its operations and investigations. Also on how to assess real estate and also on who could be the main instigator or initiator of such irregular or inconsistent procedures. However, as I said in the opening presentation, the second phase of the Commission of Inquiry will focus on investigating the operation of the DUTB, asset management and also the sale of this property. However, I would just like to recall that, in the previous term of office, the Mira Cerar government adopted a law amendment in 2016 which also allows the DUTB to better manage the bad claims or assets received, and with that novelty was essentially the basis for preventing the so-called fire fair from getting enough time to recover the market and eventually allowing the sale of claims by the bad bank to be increased. So all these procedures will be examined by the Commission of Inquiry at a second stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u267	Thank you very much. My colleague Gregor Perič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u268	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government, nice greetings to all! While I have participated in this commission of inquiry as an alternate member, I must especially commend her former president, former colleague – at least currently former colleague – Jerne Vrtovac and colleague Monika Gregorčič, as well as all the other members and members, as well as all others who have helped in the professional sense that this commission has come to some stage victory or interim report. This interim report shall consist of three parts. The first part is accessible to the public, so that all the public following us can find it online and also without these political filters, such as we Members, regardless of political provenance, create some own opinion, some sense of how things were running and where they were not going. We're talking about some very high amount, about about 5 billion, slightly less, bad claims that came from commercial banks either privately or publicly owned into this bad bank. For the feeling, this is about half of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the pre-koronanal period, so to speak. So this amount is extremely large and this money can do a lot of things. But of those 5 billion that went to a bad bank, the transfer value was 1.6 billion. So with some maneuver to put it this way, 3.3 billion went to zero. In fact, it didn't go to anything because this money went somewhere at some point, companies got it from banks in one way or another and did something with it, or did something about it, or did something about it, or did it move it somewhere else. But this is a debate that, I hope, will continue to follow in this house at the second stage of this commission of inquiry. Since the first stage dealt mainly with the transfer of claims procedures, the second part would focus on the establishment, the operation of the DUTB as such and the management of the claims themselves. So, in the first part, we dealt mainly with the transfer procedures. I must say that this is an extremely difficult material because such practices in Slovenia have not yet been established, and banks themselves have in their own way already developed some of their bad portfolios within themselves and each has also developed one's own methodology. Some practices were also sought at the time of the transfer. Some frameworks within the European Union are also available. Again, I must commend, in particular, the professional colleagues who have worked very closely on this methodology, which will also help other investigators, the police, the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, the NPU, who will then assess whether and what went wrong and who has committed any mistakes or crimes. So there's still work to be done before the commission of inquiry. Above all, there is something else to be said. This high discount, which has occurred, from these nearly 5 billion to 1.6 billion, is something that requires very much public attention if not too much attention from our fellow Members and Members. I think that this would be a good reason why cycling is also worth it, and we see that what things have happened will wake our civil society or also political society or the political part of our country, which things are a little less, so that the role of the media is very important. I would like the media to also process this subject very carefully to get some attention because it raises a number of issues of our society and our policies. I'll make one comparison. When we travel by car across Europe, now the border is gone – or we have another situation at the moment, but let’s say that the border is no longer – and when we enter another country, we see a table where it is written, how much we can drive outside the settlement and how much we can drive in the settlement. We can see somewhere that the limit to a ride in a village is 50 kilometers an hour, and then we come to a town, a village, and everyone drives 50 kilometers an hour. Then we come to another country, when we also see the same board, and we know that there is the same limit, 50 kilometers per hour, but few drive 50 kilometers per hour, all break traffic regulations, and there are many more speed barriers, and there are many more radars, and yet all of this is happening. I think it's similar in Slovenia. We can place people in a number of institutions either from Slovenia or abroad, even from Scandinavia, but if we adapt to a corporate culture that is not exactly the best, then we always have the same result and we have to deal with it in particular. Of course, politics is responsible to an important extent for preventing these actions, but only politics, only one government will find it difficult to eradicate some practices that have been absorbed into our society. The events within the bad bank and beyond the bad bank and within some of the structures that have been set up, when we are talking directly about the data transfer process itself, have shown exactly this. Even though this legislative or regulatory framework may not have been the best, there have been many interpretations that have gone far beyond the spirit, I will say, and the law itself and the regulation itself. If someone acted under the law as such, according to the purpose of the law and the purpose of the regulation, I think that these frauds or suspicions of these frauds, because nothing has been established yet, could have occurred. But – I have to talk here now with certain limitations because we have, so to speak, on the open stage, but – there have been some very clear connections, how someone wanted and also helped to make certain transfers happen, or whether it affected that certain transfers that should have happened did not happen. So it will be very interesting here, and I want all the competent institutions that will make sure that this area is searched to do their job. Once again, thanks to the work of this commission, they will have a number of tools, some methodologies that will make it easier to assess whether or not there have been offences or crimes and to what extent. Let me add that at some point the role of the European Commission has also been problematic. There were different stages at the time of this transfer, and in the meantime legislation has changed to say so, so the European Commission has sharpened this area. Unfortunately, we did not hurry in Slovenia at that time and then received a more acute treatment, which added to the fact that some representatives of these key institutions who cared about the transfer procedures did not know exactly what was appropriate, and after testing the nerves on the Slovenian side also reduced this string slightly by making it even more difficult for us to work. What can I say? I hope that we will learn something from such practices in particular, but I may also be a little skeptical, even when I hear that this institution, which is holding on to something like some bad karma, would want to transform again a little bit and change its original purpose or mission a little bit. I think we should end up at some point with this recovery with the banking system. Formally speaking, at least the transmissions were completed and to a considerable extent – at least a few months ago by DUTB, I think they were spinning around 86%, if I recall correctly – this portfolio has been cleaned, I believe there is more. And it would be time for some institutions that have a very clear purpose, if established, to be eliminated when they have fulfilled their mission. I look forward to participating in this committee in the future, so that we can find out in this second part of the work itself and in the next steps what has happened and what we must do to ensure that something like this does not happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u269	Thank you. There's a colleague of mag's who's got the word. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u270	Thank you for your word, President. That's a good-bye to all of you! For the introduction, given that the so-called bank hole, which was EUR 5 billion, is a red thread, I must stress immediately what I have already put very clearly on this topic in 2016, 2017 and 2018 – the responsibility to create a 5 billion-dollar bank hole, and I will repeat it again in this place. Members of the boards and supervisory boards of state-owned banks, Banka Slovenije as regulator, and those who have also played a very important role in this matter, external independent auditors who carried out the audit of business reports are said to be annual, as well as internal auditors. These claims, which were later transferred, were the consequences of so-called bad banking practices in state-owned banks. I think it is under-emphasis, but I will repeat this again in my debate. A few words for the introduction itself, concerning the topic that was on this investigative committee. I do not think that any of these are present here and also in the public who would not realize that in the years following the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, many things have been done, which was not good. And it is particularly painful that the consequences of poor business in state-owned legal entities, which certainly affects every citizen and citizen, are also evident from the outcome of the first part of this interim report of this parliamentary commission of inquiry. It is therefore in itself a question of whether the price of public interest is not merely the password of individuals to preserve state property or, if I may say so, of political parties who insist on this at all times in their debates. Apparently, state ownership is a magnet and a means to gain the benefit of individuals, especially at the expense of the majority, if I can put it simply, citizens and citizens. For this reason, I believe that until the executive branch is able to manage state property responsibly, and in particular will not actively deal with the prevention and punishment of all forms of abuse, it is not appropriate to have state property in legal persons on the free market. So much for my brief introduction to this debate today. As is known, in 2012 the so-called peak of the banking crisis in the Republic of Slovenia was a strategic question of how to maintain a relatively stable financial system, in banks owned by the state, the truth of the loving, majority market share in the Republic of Slovenia. In order to stabilise this banking system, which controlled state-owned banks, there were literally only two possibilities. First, to maintain an over-average high or a percentage of poor claims in these balance sheets, which would result in a questionable amount of capital adequacy and thus have a limited or reduced volume of business, perhaps also the termination of some bank, as later happened, that they ceased to exist in the Bank and Probank. And secondly: to establish a new company to which all the bad claims of banks are transferred, here again I stress, a state-owned bank, and thereby the banks are so-called clearing up their own bad transactions and with fresh recapitalisation they are normally operating to some expected extent without limitation. Whatever the individual debate, I am in the position that it was the right decision of the Government and also of the National Assembly to decide on this second option, that is to say, the establishment of a company that we now know as the Company for Bank Claims Management. I will not repeat or stress here that the legal basis for this company was the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks in 2012 and also during the period of the Cerara government in 2015 when this change was. Here again, the law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks has been established solely and solely because of state-owned banks. Here I also have to mention them literally: Nova Ljubljanska banka, Nova Kreditna banka, Abanka, Banka Celje, Probanka and Factor banka. This is due mainly to the fact that it was there in 2013, 2014, in Slovenia about 18 banks and savings banks, of which five were only state-owned and had a major crisis due to capital adequacy. This was demonstrated on the basis of stress tests, because the number of this capital adequacy was by no means sufficient, in accordance with the applicable Slovenian legislation, the Banking Act, and also with European guidelines. Everyone is more or less aware that they went to recapitalise these banks with a large amount of money. Two banks have also been recapitalised, and I have to stress this in particular, and I expect the parliamentary commission of inquiry to pay a little more attention to Factor Bank and Probank. For one estimate is that the two banks were privately owned by 2013 and the then government supported these two banks in 2013. Why this happened, I think only the then government, led by the respected Alenka Bratusek, is known. The fact is that these two banks went through over EUR 445 million for recapitalisation, around EUR billion of guarantees were issued – and what happened later? Within a certain period or several years, the Central Bank adopted a decision on the so-called controlled liquidation, which surprised many in the National Assembly, not the then government led by Mira Cerar. Some Members, particularly opposition ones, have been – and I myself have been involved in these debates – very critical of such decisions. I think that this is also something that needs to be given a little more attention in this commission of inquiry. If I touch on the substance of this parliamentary inquiry, the transfer and determination and the sale of claims, these so-called bad claims. I must admit that I am also very clear from this place that the political responsibilities of the holders of public powers do not need to be highlighted in particular, and I can say, more or less, who are these holders of public authority, representing some responsibility: the then President of the Government in 2013 and its Finance Minister and, in 2014-2018, the President of the Government, the Finance Minister and the Finance Minister, who replaced the then or resigned Minister of Finance. Why am I stressing this? Because in the Company for the Management of Claims of Banks, the Basic Act, the Statute, and at the same time the Law, which has already been mentioned several times, with regard to the stabilisation and strengthening of stabilisation, the stability of banks is very clear that the role of the Assembly of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is the so-called Financial Resort. He certainly had and has a certain subjective or objective responsibility also for the Governor of Banka Slovenije, especially in the context of those so-called stress tests, which I think today are known that the Court of Auditors is finally reviewing, after so many years, even Banka Slovenije. However, I certainly have a great deal of concern about the then Governor and the leadership of the Bank of Slovenia, regarding the decision issued to control the liquidation of the so-called Factor Bank and Probanka, because it was a unique one. I think not only in the Slovenian banking area, but also in the wider or European area. It is therefore right that this parliamentary commission of inquiry should also address this matter. Because I think it is finally time that this responsibility is somehow beginning to take place not only in political responsibility, but also in the holders of public powers and those who have been operationally exercising this responsibility in the field of material and criminal responsibility. A few words about DUTB. We all know that DUTB was established as a single system for managing or managing a company, which means that the company system operates through so-called executive and non-executive directors. Non-executive directors, known under the Company Act, are simply members of the Management Board. The fact is that these persons are directly responsible if anything has happened contrary to the so-called good business practice, the principle of economics and all that somehow belongs to or, in the domestic sense, the company is doing business in a way that generates profits and that this profit is returned to so-called taxpayers or to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. If I'm still in the management or management of the DUTB. I am firmly in the position that these are key persons for decision-making and control on specific transactions, the right to conclude contracts, the approval of discounts in the sale of claims, business shares or real estate, the conclusion of all types of advisory contracts, in short, they have been and are still responsible for the operation and operation of the DUTB today. Once again, it is my humble opinion that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not play the role that we are somehow expecting from the politicians or Members or citizens and citizens in terms of the responsible owner. For the government, as the only assembly in the management of the DUTB, should certainly call the irresponsible ones or replace them on behalf of the owner in cases where so - called business abuses have also appeared in public. Most frequently, these were linked to so-called commission transactions or extremely profitable purchase contracts with a tremendously high discount, although in amending the Bank's Stability Act, we have specifically stressed and paid attention to individual articles of this Act in addition to this. However, this has been happening and it is not so much the fault of the legislator, personally I am in the position that this is the responsibility of the management body, which is simply abusing business ethics. Of course, it is in the hands of the owner, in this case the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who had every opportunity to prevent or at least stop any abuse in one way or another. Still, a few more words about Probank and the Bank Factor. What I mentioned earlier – it is unusual for the Slovenian business or banking system that the Central Bank has decided on a controlled liquidation. I must admit that I am very pleased that this investigative committee has also touched and it is also written that not only is it unusual that this procedure has been carried out, but it is even unusual that the one who was the custodian of a particular bank then appeared as the first person to be the so-called executor of the DUTB, while being responsible for one of these two banks. As a result, these processes took place. Not only was this movement, let's say, of companies in DUTB with the decision of Banka Slovenije, but even the transfer of employees of both banks took place. This is unusual for the so - called business finance council, which certainly resulted in the fact that it did not go for the benefit of taxpayers. I must therefore acknowledge that in this context I strongly support the proposed decision at both points. I would certainly ask myself a very interesting question for the end. The essence of the so-called parliamentary commissions of inquiry: political responsibility. In this national assembly, it has been often said that the holders of public powers are responsible. Investigative commissions linked to a 5 billion-dollar bank hole have identified the specific responsibility of a particular person by their excellent work. Epilog? It's practically gone. We've got Tesh Six, just like that. I am now talking about these two, who have somehow been most completed and very carefully investigated and also committed to law enforcement. Unfortunately, this is still a dead end right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u271	My colleague Alexander Reberšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u272	President, thank you so much for your word. I'll say hello again! I am aware that I am stepping into the great shoes of the former President of the Commission of Inquiry, but I can assure you that I will make the best possible contribution to the continuation of the good work of the Commission and also try to ensure that those responsible for the situation will also be responsible. I am aware that, as chairman of the commission of inquiry, I do not have the opportunity to force witnesses to confess the truth to us, because everyone can answer that they do not remember, as did the hearing, when the former director of the DUTB answered three and a half times with the word “I do not remember” and that strongly angers me. All we can do is study the obtained or seized documentation. When I read the last one, I have to admit, I get depressed, because while ordinary people can't get credit for, say, an apartment, the voters in the banking system have turned a billion-dollar hole. To this day, decades after the financial crisis, virtually no one was responsible. How can we explain to taxpayers, who have also received a bank incompetence account, how it is possible that NLB had as many as 20% of the bad loans, NKBM 25% and Bank Celje 33%, while Banka Vipa had 46%. This, too, is not clear to me as a citizen of anger and I cannot believe, above all, that the members of the management of these banks and the members of the credit committees that approved all these loans that have never been repaid were not responsible for their inability to do so. Moreover, some of them today hold high positions in the banking sector. As President, I will take the lead in investigating not only irregularities within the DUTB that are not missing, but also how companies that have been transferred to the DUTB can receive loans at all, and calling on the people who have granted these loans to the public to defend themselves. Why do we even have investigative committees? To clarify where irregularities have taken place before the Slovenian public, and also publicly expose those we have received with fingers in marmalade or whose gross negligence has contributed to the deterioration of the standard of living of all our citizens. Because of people like that, we all live worse. I even hope to say that we have poverty in Slovenia, but not because we cannot feed the poor, but because we cannot feed the rich and the greedy. Why is all this happening, and answer for yourself? What saddens me, too, is that we do not have handcuffs, we are dependent on the good work of the prosecution, as well as the police, so it must surprise us so much more when the prosecution takes, say, a different position from the two investigative commissions, as it did in the billions of dollars of money laundering in the so-called Farrokh case. Public exchange of views, who is right and who is wrong, is impossible because all documents are marked by different levels of confidentiality. Perhaps this is why there is also a reflection that has been present in the media sphere for the past few days – to remove bank secrecy from these documents and let the Slovenian public decide what was actually going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u273	He's got a word like the last mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u274	Mr President, thank you for the floor. As has already been said in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I support this report myself. Above all, it is important that this Commission of Inquiry continues its work and that there are certain findings. Already in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we have repeatedly stressed certain irregularities that have taken place. It must have been the most unusual connection between the Bank and Probank to DUTB. We probably haven't received any concrete answers by now. I expect that the parliamentary commission will be able to serve here with answers to what has been going on, and in particular to get an explanation of why there was a simplification of the merger of these banks. Finally, the problem of the transfer of claims, which is not yet – in fact, as has already been mentioned, we will support this report in the parliamentary group. I also personally expect that the Commission of Inquiry will continue its work and, in its final report, try to answer a number of questions that are likely to have been raised during today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-26-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u275	Thank you. I am adjourning the debate, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. in closed session with a joint debate on the additional interim report and on the second supplementary interim report, and on the essential findings set out in both documents, as part of the remainder of the overall time of each participant. At the same time, Members and Members will be informed that the entrance to the Chamber will only be possible when passing through the detection door and the entrance will be supervised by the National Assembly Protection Unit. There will be no use of electronic devices in the hall, such as mobile phones, computers, cameras, smartphones and the like. I ask you to take all your belongings with you for the purpose of preparing the hall for tomorrow's closed meeting and to have an emissary card with you for identification tomorrow. I hereby terminate this item and also the 17th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
