ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Nada Brinovšek, Franc Kramar, Jože Tanko, Carmen Furman, only Bevk until 16:00 and Franc Jurša. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the participation in a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly by the use of an application for remote meetings was not announced by any Member or Member. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. IN 3. It's a day's work. In the context of agenda items 2 and 3, the National Assembly will first carry out joint introductory presentations and joint presentations of the views of the members of the groups on the DRAFT AMENDMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR the year 2021 and the SUPPLEMENTAL PROPOSAL OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2022. The draft acts were tabled by the Government. I give the floor first to Prime Minister Janez Janša to further explain both proposals for acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected choir! Briefly on the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the following year and on the supplementary budget for 2022. In part, we have been talking about these acts in recent weeks, but it is necessary to point out at this second introduction that the situation concerning the public financial situation of both Slovenia and the other Member States of the European Union is still unstable, and yet today it is possible to plan more realistic revenues and expenditure than was possible at the beginning of the first wave of the epidemic. Domestic and international institutions forecasting the growth or fall of gross domestic product, gross domestic products across Europe, either monthly or at least three months old, yet they are not significantly different from when we first introduced the budget documents. Slovenia exists somewhere in the framework announced for the entire European Union, slightly better than the forecast for the euro area we are part of, and much better as regards the debt forecast. So let's say the average projected debt over the next three years, as far as the country's debt sector is concerned, is much higher in the European Union than our average or our forecasts. The debt of the country in the Member States of the European Union, which is announced, is significantly higher than that announced for Slovenia, than over 100 % of the gross domestic product when it comes to the European Union, over 90 % and 95 % over the next three years, and Slovenia remains somewhere at 80% in these three years, even slightly below that in the last year. This relatively favourable public financial position of the country obviously also affects our position in the financial markets. Due to the timely measures we have taken in the context of the anti-korona actions so far, our ratings for virtually all rating agencies – and these assessments are, of course, crucial when it comes to the cost of borrowing, to the cost of achieving liquidity in the modern financial world – have either stabilised or repaired upwards, which Slovenia ranks among those Member States of the European Union with the most stable public financial picture. So let's say I can give you a lot of data or comparisons. The most illustrative information that tells us that our public financial position has also been rectified in relation to international financial markets is the fact that this year, when the crisis year, we will pay less for interest on debts than we paid last year. Which means that the Minister of Finance or that the Treasury has successfully refinanced certain debts from the past, that we have repaid them with those we have leased for lower interest rates, and that the cost of servicing is longer this year than the whole of Europe, and that we, too, are recording the fall of gross domestic product, which is practically incomparable to normal times at any time in the history of the European Union, the debt price is lower than it was in last year when pandemics and these drastic falls were nowhere to be seen. A robust approach to managing the public financial consequences of the epidemic or, perhaps, the economic and social consequences of the epidemic will continue for the next two years. This is the case for indicators talking about gross investments that will be significant in Slovenia over the next two years, around 6% in 2021 and over 4% in 2022. When it comes to public investment, we'll increase it. If they are, comparatively, around 4% and a half this year, they will increase to 5.8% in the next year and 6% in the next year. We will also be able to go over here, depending on how we will be able to improve the environment, which makes it possible to invest European funds both from the Recovery and Resistance Fund and from the next seven-year financial framework of the European Union. This package, negotiated at the July session, is still in the validation phase. The Treaty on European Union provides that the decision of the European Council should be brought into line with Parliament and finally adopted by a joint, unified draft budget. From past experience – we have already negotiated twice and were part of this process – this was usually a formality where a few billion of the reserves were provided for certain programmes, which the European Parliament has additionally imposed, and so we came up with a joint proposal, which was finally unanimously endorsed both in the European Parliament and in the Council. Unfortunately, there have been complications this year as a result of the fact that, since July, the European Council has unanimously set up financial frameworks for the two key instruments, including the possibility of own resources of the European Union and shared debt through the European Commission, this agreement has partly been complemented in negotiations with the European Parliament's leadership in a positive direction, saying that more resources are allocated to some joint programmes, from protecting external borders to more funds for Erasmus and for some other projects that were not so much in the focus of the European Council when thousands of billions were discussed. However, this is a small sum that can be provided from the balances of the annual budget drain and from certain reserves that always remain at such sums. But it got complicated in terms of conditionality. The media are telling you that some countries do not accept the principle of rule of law and that this is why the blockade of this agreement is threatening. We're going to have to explain a little here because I doubt you're going to find out the real picture from the media. The fact that the rule of law is the foundation of the existence of the European Union has been reached in the July European Council with full consensus, full agreement. In fact, it is a fact that a State which does not swear to the rule of law which does not have its functioning in line with the rule of law cannot be a member of the European Union under a contract. As a result of this Treaty on Europe, the Treaty of Lisbon also contains a provision which states that it is only conditional that a Member State is based on the rule of law and that no one else can abuse it in such a way that any Member State, with political motives, is forced to do anything beyond what the Treaty on European Union provides. And then it's also worked out what happens if a particular country violates this treaty. The inside of these rules is also this famous 7th article, which ultimately allows even the withdrawal of voting rights to a single Member State, if all the other countries agree, and the country that is the target cannot stop it with a veto. However, this procedure has been carried out in such a way that a court decides whether or not a person is in breach of the law. The Treaty of Lisbon, the Treaty on European Union, lays down the procedure and, in the end, it shall be decided by a court, an independent body established to decide in the event of such disputes. In this regard, agreement was reached at the end of the July European Council after four days and four times, this is the legal framework, which we are members of the European Union, we must respect and respect, and there were no reservations in this regard. In these negotiations, later — during the Presidency of the European Parliament, the European Parliament has not yet adopted this proposal — this is a technical agreement between the leadership of the European Parliament and the Presidency of the Council of the European Union — and it is ultimately adopted by a conditioner which provides that whether someone violates the law and the treaty is not decided by a court but by a majority. This is the majority, the political majority within the European Union, the various institutions, a very complex mechanism is proposed. This mechanism can be triggered not only by a qualified institution of the European Union, but also by various NGOs, such as in the case of Slovenia, the well-known Peace Institute, of which we all know how it works. Finally, by voting, a qualified majority of a country can stop funding from European funds. Look, this instrument, given all the explanations we've heard in July, is controversial from the point of view of the Treaty of Lisbon. The rule of law means that it is ultimately decided by an independent body, a non-political body. So, if we take something with a majority in the Slovenian Parliament or somewhere in the European Parliament, it is a political decision, it is a legislative decision, in the European case of a legislative and advisory body, that is the status of the European Parliament, but it is not an independent court decision. In this way, at any time in the future, anyone can put any country in a position when the financing of important European projects will be stopped. I ask you what will be the atmosphere and the attitude in that country towards the European Union in general and, say, the Member State that will require it, or the European institution. Imagine that, I don't know, we get some information that the bypass around Amsterdam is being financed in a somewhat strange way, and we suggest that this funding be stopped, Slovenia. Imagine the reaction in the Netherlands. No matter what happens at the end of this process, I assure you that within one year, the Netherlands will launch a procedure for funding a project in Slovenia just because the public will demand it. This is the end of the European Union, as we know it, and as we imagined it, as we voted for it in the referendum and as we finally agreed with it and its legal framework with the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon. I signed it myself, so I know what it says, and Slovenia has made a great deal of efforts during the presidency to ratify this treaty. So what's on the table now is not going to drink water. The media are now full of how two countries block it. Previously, the media have been full of information that this rule has been adopted or that it will be adopted by a qualified majority in order to discipline Poland and Hungary, while we all know that parts of this package must be ratified by all parliaments. Who in their right mind believes that the Polish or Hungarian parliament will ratify a package that is said to contain instruments to stop the financing of European projects in these two countries? This is not after the court has decided, which is possible today, but after the majority of the European Parliament has decided on this. Fortunately, this has not yet been the case with the media, since neither the European Parliament nor the Council of the European Union has yet decided on this, and no national Parliament has yet decided to block it. They were mere stated intentions, which, of course, puts the process in time. You are imagining the vast, robust administrative supply represented by this financial package of almost EUR 2 000 billion with the whole ratification procedure through national parliaments, the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and so on. We usually spent a good year on this, now we have a good month to go by the end of the year. There's gonna be a lot going on here. From this point of view, I think it's right that you're informed why it's actually going here. My view is that the agreement we reached at the European Council in July after everything was on the table, when the European Union's continued existence was questioned and a framework adopted unanimously must be respected. If we don't respect that, then we can agree on something else, and someone will remember that it's wrong, and we'll move on. We are in the middle of the second wave of the epidemic, Europe is deeply affected, not just by Slovenia, all of them. This will affect a lot if there is no timely ratification of these packages, and this can only happen if the final agreement is based on the July agreement, which has been very difficult to reach with compromises from all sides, with, I will say, a lot of drama. This will then have an impact on economic and financial optimism in the European Union and on the euro's strength, including on credit ratings, on the cost of borrowing, on the forecast that is yet to be optimistic or at least moderately optimistic, and Europe can wake up at the beginning of next year in a situation that will be bad, which will be completely unnecessary and which it has brewed itself. So that we will do everything in our power — even in the three future and the current Presidency — to preserve the July agreement, to act rationally, not to break the European Union, not to weaken the euro, and to react reasonably at a time when we do not know exactly what the price of the second wave will be, and we do not even know definitively whether we will be able to avoid vaccines for the third wave cod. So that's it. The Minister of Finance will present some additional figures. Let me also say that when we prepare the seventh anti-coronapack, which we must accept by the end of the next month, we are also looking for provisions to help some of the most affected, especially 100,000 low-income pensioners, who, in addition to these times, may feel more expensive pressures than in the spring, and in general the situation that we have with regard to all the Crown restrictions. From this point of view, we are also looking for internal reserves in order to provide additional resources to at least the most affected category to alleviate the social consequences of the epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the Minister of Finance of Magi to further explain both proposals for acts. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Members of Parliament, Honourable Members! The budget for 2021 and the budget for 2022 have been prepared in uncertain situations, probably in the past, and these budgets have not been daily in recent decades. Uncertainty was caused by the epidemic, mainly because of the second wave, because we found that we did not completely eradicate the virus at the first wave and that it simply repeated itself. This makes the risk both in the public financial field and, of course, in the economy. The epidemiological picture changes rapidly and unpredictably. Nevertheless, we planned budgets for 2021 and 2022 ambitiously. Given the decline in population consumption in 2020, we have increased the country's consumption, which is mainly reflected in the country's larger investments. In short, these are budgets, which on the one hand are investment and on the other hand care for people's well-being, they are also said to be social. The budget for 2021 shall not be subject to a fiscal rule. The European Commission has announced that the general derogation clause will continue to apply in 2021. A similar statement was made by the Fiscal Council. This will enable the country to recover in 2021 and also in 2022. For 2022 we cannot yet talk about extending the derogation clause, so we have planned revenue and expenditure in such a way that these derogation clauses would not actually exist. Given that the epidemic, the second wave, is prolonged, this issue remains open. The recovery of the economy will be extended by the end of 2021 and the beginning, the first half of 2022. Nevertheless, it is clear from the budgets that the deficit is falling. The deficit is reduced from 9.2% of GDP, as planned in 2020, to 5.6% deficit in 2021 and 3.1% deficit in 2022. In accordance with the fiscal rule, in accordance with Article 12, we will present to the Fiscal Council a plan on how and how long the state of public finances will lead to the normal state set by the fiscal framework. The budget changes for 2021 provide for revenue of 10.7 billion euros and are higher by 1.5 billion or about 17% compared to the 2020 rebalancing. In the budget for 2022, revenue in the light of the budget changes in 2021 will be slightly higher, amounting to 11 billion and 2.6% more than in 2021. In doing so, I should like to point out that a double statement of expenditure is provided on the expenditure side, indicating the expenditure related to the cot and other expenditure. Expenditure will also be planned at 13.5 billion in 2021, which is somehow comparable to the level of rebalancing expenditure for 2020. Given that this budget for 2021 is primarily investmentary, let me mention that approximately €2 billion will be spent on investment each year. So many Slovenias have not invested so far. In doing so, I count that everyone, including the municipalities, will be active, as it is intended to increase the transfer to the municipalities for investments of EUR 350 million. This means, in other words, that we are counting on important investments to take place at the level of the municipalities, that is, where they are closest to people. I am also counting, of course, on the real planning of implementation and the active preparation of projects, even because they can be used for these purposes, and it would be appropriate to use European funds as much as possible. If I mention some increases in individual ministries, then we can say that 143 million more is earmarked for the Ministry of Infrastructure than in 2019. I'm talking about 2021. The Ministry of Health spends 345 million more than in 2019 and this transfer amounts to more than 500 million in 2021. The bulk of the expenditure relates to covid, but nevertheless we believe that the share of gross social product intended for health will need to be increased in the future. Investments will not only be in infrastructure, which has already been mentioned on the Committee, such as rail infrastructure, road infrastructure, but also in health care, homes for the elderly. Most or a lot of investments can be made through reforms, health system reforms, pension system reforms, reforms taking care of the elderly, and this will be allocated to the budget. In infrastructure, we will invest mainly in rail and road infrastructure. Here we can talk about the 3rd development axis, the modernisation of railways. In the field of health, the construction of new hospitals in Celje, Ljubljana. So from this point of view, we count on this money to be spent as efficiently and, of course, as transparent as possible. If we turn to debt by spending, then I can find out that in 2021 and 2022 there will be debt, including in the law on the implementation of budgets, there will be a debt of a little less than 7 billion, with some more than 3 billion debt in 2021. If we look at the debt vis-à-vis other countries, then I can find that we are at the top half of the European Union after the debt, that is to say those countries which are less indebted depending on the gross social product. This year, the debt of 82,4 % of the gross social product is expected to fall to slightly more than 79 % of the gross social product in 2022. The obligation was necessary to finance the expenditure related to the prevention of cod spread and the treatment of people. Let me also mention the monetary policy area. Monetary policy in Europe works, we can say today, hand in hand with fiscal policy. The budget takes into account an expansionary fiscal policy, acts pro-cyclically and, on the other hand, the European Central Bank ensures the liquidity of business banks. European institutions are expected to further increase the possibility of increasing the liquidity of business banks in December, so that I do not see any liquidity problems from this point of view. Business banks are stable, liquid and robust. There is also a strong social component in the budgets. Social and family policy rights are high on the priority list and social policy funds are also increasing. And above all, social policy is aimed at those who need it most. We will continue to finance health infrastructure, testing, vaccines and personal protective equipment from the budget, in addition to covering the costs of hospitals and other public institutions in the field of health and social protection related to the epidemic, with an additional EUR 200 million. Let me return to uncertainty in the end. No one knows for sure how the situation will unfold and how profound the consequences will be for the economy and for people. Since the beginning of the crisis, the government has been working primarily to preserve jobs and help businesses maintain their activity. The aid was intended for the most vulnerable groups in the future. The fifth and sixth sets of anti-Korona measures follow the same objective, and a similar objective will be followed by the seventh set of anti-Korona measures. In order to implement these we will benefit from reserves, this is what the budget reserves are called. The budget reserve is large enough to cover all costs associated with the epidemic. This is what we are and will at least partially mitigate the consequences of the crisis and the fall of gross social product. Most of all, however, we contribute to mitigating the consequences and speedy recovery as individuals with responsible behaviour and solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft acts were dealt with by the Committee on Finance as the parent working body. For the presentation of the Committee's reports, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u6	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 48th urgent meeting on 14 November this year, the Committee on Finance considered the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021. During the business term, qualified applicants tabled 71 amendments, one of which was withdrawn and three were incorrectly tabled. The Committee has thus defined up to 67 amendments. In the introduction, the Minister of Finance said that the amendment was made taking into account the circumstances of the covida-19 epidemic, taking into account international circumstances and based on Umar's autumn forecast. He presented the actions of the European Commission and the European Central Bank. He noted that the crisis is sectoral and therefore the government's actions are directed at individual sectors, the ones most affected. He said that, due to the uncertainty about the development of the epidemic and the social and economic consequences, the European Commission also announced for 2021 that the general withdrawal clause from fiscal rules would continue to apply. He further detailed the economic indicators for the following year and presented the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which are also reflected in the draft amending budget. In its introduction, the President of the Fiscal Council said that they had not received any new documents from the Government to assess that the criteria laid down in Article 12 of the Fiscal Rule Act were still being met, which, due to exceptional circumstances, allow for a temporary derogation from the long-term balance of public finances. Regarding the high planned expenditure, he said that planning was, but also risky, as it could be an effective use of these funds. In response to the assessment of the Fiscal Council, the Minister of Finance explained that the Government takes the guidelines seriously and regularly informs the National Assembly in the form of reports. With regard to high expenditure, he explained that public investment is indeed increasing and their purpose is to compensate for the decline in household demand. The Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development is complementary to the autumn forecast with the latest estimates and data currently available. With regard to the third quarter of this year, available data show that recovery in many activities was better than expected. It noted that the consequences will be largely for the service sector, which is also the most affected sector. As regards 2021, the death forecast is the same as that of the European Commission, with 5.1% economic growth foreseen. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee highlighted the problematic structure of the draft amending budget as they did not see its vision and objectives. They drew attention to the high use of funds and to the high deficit and state debt. It was further pointed out that the number of unemployed growing and the necessary reforms would enable the European Union to draw on funds effectively. Some members also highlighted the role of local communities in drawing on European funds and felt that it was necessary to selectively raise the threshold for the indebtedness of municipalities where it made sense. The following touched on various areas and pointed out that, for example, the Ministry of Health is really getting a lot of resources, but their consumption is already predetermined. They also drew attention to the uncertainties arising from rapid changes in measures, which are particularly difficult for small businesses. The belief was also expressed that the draft amending budget was developmental and targeted. Emphasis has been placed on areas where funds are increasing, namely health, social, infrastructure, education, economies. They pointed out the great uncertainty of the current crisis situation and its time uncertainty. During the debate and at the end of the debate, the Minister of Finance, the President of the Fiscal Council and representatives of the Government responded to the questions and dilemmas raised in the debate and provided further clarifications. After the discussion, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled by qualified candidates and supported the four amendments, the three proposers of the Slovenian National Party and one of the drafters of the parliamentary coalition groups. The other amendments were not supported by the Committee. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following decision: The Committee on Finance took note of and supported the proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Finance considered the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 at its 47th emergency meeting on 13 November. 37 amendments were forwarded to qualified applicants. In the introduction, the Minister of Finance presented an updated draft budget and its only amendment to the Ministry of Culture for the Slovenian Museum of Independence project. For 2022 too, the Minister explained that the budget or his proposal had arisen in extremely uncertain conditions, presented the autumn forecast of Umar and explained that both Umar and the European Commission were predicting a gradual recovery of the economy in the coming years, but that recovery would be linked mainly to the actions of individual countries and the implementation of the Next Generation of the EU. The President of the Fiscal Council stated that the Fiscal Council had already submitted a comprehensive assessment of the budgetary documents transmitted to him. He stressed that it was not possible at this time to confirm whether a temporary derogation from the medium-term balance of public finances under the Fiscal Rule Act would be possible in 2022. He noted that, at this point, it points to the realization of more pessimistic scenarios, so that a pre-crisis level of economic activity is unlikely to be achieved in 2022. The Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development presented a autumn forecast of 3.7% economic growth for 2022. During the discussion, the members and members of the Committee presented their views on the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 and on some of the amendments tabled. Individual members highlighted the need for transparency and a clear distinction between expenditure intended to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic and other expenditure. There have been concerns about the rise in public debt and some members have pointed out that there is no alternative to State debt and that this is necessary when certain conditions are met. The debate also focused on public health. In this context, it was highlighted or pointed out that the resources available to the healthcare system were increasing and the rationality of their consumption was expressed as a problem. The debate also stressed the need to maintain the stability of the health system. Part of the debate was also held in the context of the consideration of individual amendments, with the discussion focusing mainly on the areas of long-term care, research programmes and projects, and on the financing of local communities. The Minister made further clarifications on the concerns and issues raised in the debate, in particular regarding the extent of indebtedness, liquidity of the economy and job conservation. After the discussion on the supplementary draft State budget for 2022, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and did not support any amendments. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following decision: The Committee on Finance supports the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u8	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Honourable President of the National Assembly! The unstable and uncertain circumstances brought about by the outbreak of the new disease are no longer a single-day fly. They'll have long-term influence. Due to the epidemic, the budget was completely rebalanced this year. It will be the same with the budgets for the next two years, which, of course, we are dealing with today. These are three budgets that will not be historic only in height, but will be historic even after indebtedness. However, let me start by repeating what we have already said several times in the Social Democrats, even when we adopt the balance – that we all understand the state's spending and indebtedness. Even the Fiscal Council does not oppose this under such circumstances. Everyone in this hall and in this country understands that this is the only way to respond to a health, economic and social situation that not only affects our country, but covers the whole world. The government intends to spend and to do so, we see this, and it is indisputable, and no one opposes it. It is clear that the budgets of the coming years will not be comparable to those of 2019, whose final accounts will also be dealt with at this meeting. It is also clear that we are doing all of this so that once again normal situations will arise, that we may once again have normal public finances and that we will live in a normal functioning country. If we have yet to talk about the response to the epidemic in the rebalancing process, the budget is for the next two years about how well we will adapt to the new situation. If not sooner, at the end of this two-year period it will be necessary to have an answer to the question of how we will pay for this spending. Therefore, please don't mind us, Minister, if we ask this question in this debate. The criticisms and proposals we make in the opposition should be understood as a proposal for improvements, for greater transparency, security and efficiency of this huge operation, because it is no longer just about protecting human health, strengthening the health system, securing jobs, it is also about what kind of country we will live in in two years, and also because it is two years further than those 14 days, how we will survive until then. The aim is, therefore, to survive difficult times and to ensure that normality is restored as soon as possible, so it is important that I put the two at the outset of this debate. With the emergence of normality, the rules that limit consumption and require repayment of debts will be re-activated. Unfortunately, when this normality comes, so-called savings countries in Europe will decide. As some economists warn us, it is, of course, sensible to look at this time with one eye and realize that today's consumption will also have to be paid. If we don't make wise use of the funds today, in a year, two, three could mean a lot to us. And I don't know what a big economic doctrine it is to be put into domestic public finances. And a second time. The government wants to finance a large part of spending from European resources. It is important to stress that this spending is also decided by Europe and not by us. The availability of money that the Government relies on in the budget depends also on our position in the European Union. It is clear that no one can do it alone, but it is important to stress that government decisions and actions also have a major impact on our position in Europe and on how much money we will get from this Europe. Unfortunately, we are also dependent on other countries. If I briefly take our position, we are critical of the draft budgets in the SD Group: low transparency of the planned high consumption, unclear priorities, because consumption is rising across all resources, and of the broken sources of funding that we already know are largely reversible, and we will only get them when the European Union programmes are successfully drawn. If I touch transparency first. After a record budget, which, despite reduced tax revenues, increases total consumption to over 13 billion and raises budgets practically to all budget users, we cannot, as usual, walk through a number of items and find that somewhere else is being taken and given. Since funds are increasing everywhere, it is necessary to dig deep into the budget lines and to identify what government plans are. In the budget for 2021, the sub-programme entitled Covid-19 Funding Facility is maintained. Otherwise, huge funds are allocated to this sub-programme, but Members and Members of the public, as well as the public, have been having problems with the transparency of their consumption for the entire duration of this government. Increased consumption threatens transparency and we would expect the government to be aware of this, if not otherwise, by ensuring that they work transparently. Instead, deep down in the specific part of the budget, it is interesting to see that resources for budgetary control are being reduced. That's a bad signal, Minister. Many of the amendments tabled in the draft budgets are here because it is only in this way that we can find out whether important projects are included in government budget plans for people at all. Given that the ruling coalition has rejected all the proposals made by the opposition, we are concerned that the Government does not see opposition proposals as constructive aid. If anything, we do not want – and what is now an extremely inappropriate time – to make the budgets for the next two years the political tool of the coalition for the realization of its political plans, while the recovery of the whole country will be placed under a few vague items called covid-19. Regrettably, it has also proved that the words about the necessary cooperation with which the coalition likes to serve and the actions on the other hand are quite apart. We Social Democrats have prepared amendments to both budgets to allow rational redistribution to realize those projects whose development opportunity will be severely threatened by the crisis in the coming years, and individual areas will be in a huge development deficit due to their stagnation. So I can in some way conclude that the budgets are full, I repeat, of the resources owed, which, of course, will have to be repaid. The question that remains unclear about everything is whether the contribution of all these funds will target those content that can trigger the most recovery, growth and development opportunities, and what we will do in the end with these measures in two years' time. As mentioned above, we are concerned about the effectiveness of this extremely increased spending, which will be financed by loans that have not yet been approved. We are in extremely volatile circumstances that cannot be analysed by even the best economic institutions. We all agree with that. The government submits a budget that has 5.6 deficits in 2021 and in 2022, I think 1.6 deficits in GDP, which increases spending practically everywhere. In doing so, we find a reduction in resources for the Statistical Office and for Umar, who are concerned about the accuracy of economic forecasts. I just can't understand it. This signal to give these institutions is very bad, I think. At the end of the last month alone, in parallel with the budgetary debates, I miss that we are too little involved in the adoption of the so-called anti-Korona measures, which will only be years after that, especially with the current budgets that have been put on the table today, a special and, in my opinion, a fateful seal. So unfortunately, we can only see these budgets as a rough tool and the content of it every month individually, I can say handball, through anti-korona packages of government acceptance. But not as much as preparing for an uncertain future, but as an improved response to the current situation. However, the government has now added at least a few lives to anti-Korona packages in the sixth attempt. Budgets for my concepts remain rigid and have a very high level of responsibility. Fearing that the joy of all these high positions will quickly waver in the difficult fiscal reality is both more than justifiable. So the question of whether this rebalance and this budget could be drawn up differently is on the table every time. While the government and the coalition will argue in their consideration that budgets 2021 and 2022 can only be what they are, given the general uncertainty that we are witnessing, it is not possible to agree with this until the end, and that is why the Social Democrats and the opposition want to at least change the direction in which these public finances have gone. Our amendments are not unreasonable, Minister, they are not too high, we only require a few simple, important solutions. Firstly: to maintain transparency; to return the multi-million-dollar resources to the Ministry of Finance for the first time in history for research, technological development, water management and adaptation to climate change to the Ministry of Finance. Second: that we do not take advantage of the epidemic as an opportunity to save money. For example, the government is proposing a cut in the budget for science and has done the same in the field of education because schools have been closed, the government sees unused funds for school meals and scholarships as savings. We oppose this and, of course, we propose amendments. Thirdly, the budget also provides funds to help some of the crisis to the affected groups left out by the previous government packages. Unfortunately, these are more every day, but not just because of your guilt, Minister, because of the situation. Let us not forget the financing of some fundamental projects important for the whole country, such as the start of the construction of the National University Library in Ljubljana. Fifthly: to provide sufficient resources for projects that are essential for recovery and resilience, I am referring to the health system, long-term care and, of course, the creation of new jobs. Sixthly: to include the funding of emergency projects for specific local areas in the budget, as it is not clear from the budgetary plans whether they will be financed, inter alia, by development axes across areas that are currently in an inappropriately poor position due to infrastructure deficits than they could be. After the meeting of the Committee on Finance, my dears, of course, we do not pretend that our amendments could be adopted at this meeting of the assembly. Moreover, the Committee has shown us something else about budgets instead of a development vision that we have heard about and unfortunately have not been able to find in these documents. He showed some kind of political dynamics that, by understanding the needs of people, areas and problems we face, do not have much in common. Of course, it has the advantage of fortifying this coalition, which is also in some ways normal, but we live in very difficult times. But since times are too serious for us to take responsibility in the opposition to try to do something good for people's sake, even in the face of the clear sidelines that this budget is absorbing quite a bit. Since it is the duty of each opposition to support the Government's efforts to respond quickly to the consequences of the epidemic in a given situation, it is the duty of the State to spend with a clear objective of maintaining economic activity and, of course, employment. This is also supported by us, and so again today, we again expect the coalition to accept at least part of it and, in some ways, to take our amendments as constructive and, in fact, to confirm them. This does not mean, of course, that in the first place we will be satisfied only with the support of our amendments, which are once again – and we also know clearly – amendments for at least maintaining, for the first time, the transparency of this budget, are said to be about agencies that are watching over budget spending, as well as other stories that you will see in our amendments in the debate itself. In the Group of Social Democrats, we want and believe that we can find room for improvement when we consider budgets. In doing so, the coalition would show that, at least now, when it comes literally to correcting the further financial perspective, the security and strength of our country not only for two years, but also for many years, it hears constructive proposals. Actually, it's on all of us. If we recognize here today in this Chamber that it is no longer just about us or you, but about our country, of course we will all be able to breathe and act more easily than is right, not as we expect a coalition or opposition role from us. This may be false optimism, but I really want us to adopt good budgetary documents that reflect the understanding that the time for measuring political power is irrevocably over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u10	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, Minister of Finance! The change in the country's budget for 2021 and the updated draft budget for 2022 represent a response to tight economic and health conditions, while at the same time with the funds negotiated by Slovenia at EU level, they are also an opportunity for economic recovery. The budgets are also the basis for the implementation of so-called anti-Korona laws or measures to ensure an adequate level of social security and economic activity. The resulting economic crisis is a result of an external factor in the form of a covida-19 pandemic. It came suddenly, but globally, and both Slovenia and all other EU members have been affected by sectoral imbalances. Its intensity is due to almost a few weeks of complete halt to public life and the economy. The sudden decline in demand has resulted in a marked decline in budgetary revenues. Government intervention by measures to mitigate the consequences of the crisis and to preserve economic activities and stimulate demand is further increasing these public expenditure. As a result of such a high public deficit, unfortunately, it is not possible to cover the proposed budgets quickly, so the budget is deficiting. Both draft budgets have already been prepared in uncertain situations in the early autumn months, but unfortunately the second wave of the epidemic, which is much more intense than the first one throughout Europe, is causing even greater uncertainty and lowering the hope of a rapid recovery of the European economy. Therefore, irrespective of the initial optimistic outlook for 2021, it is estimated that economies will not recover before 2022 before the pandemic, despite the first optimistic predictions of the development and use of the vaccine. Nevertheless, the forecasts of both the European Commission and the National Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development are quite positive for our country. Both institutions predict that, unlike more than half of the other EU Member States, Slovenia will achieve the level of GDP created from the pre-epidemic period somehow in the middle of 2022. This means that the current measures are real and already have the expected effects and that the targeted measures covered by both budget documents will also be planned, that these measures are realistic and that it is realistic that they will achieve the objective of economic recovery within the next two years. Therefore, strengthening export and investment activities, in particular in the area of infrastructure and other construction investments, and speeding up the absorption of European funding, will be key. Undoubtedly, this year's measures have prevented a severe decline in economic activity and have helped to preserve almost 300,000 jobs, according to some grave estimates. For the recovery and resilience of the economy, Slovenia has in the coming years additional European resources under the Next Generation EU instrument. This is a programme of assistance aimed at improving health infrastructure, the elderly care system and job conservation. Slovenia will also benefit jointly from € 1.6 billion in grants on the basis of the Recovery and Resistance Plan. Of this amount, €900 million is planned in the budgets already under consideration for the next two years. The budgets also contain a strong development component in the field of investment in health, institutional protection of the elderly, digitisation, science and investment, which will contribute to economic recovery, job creation, productivity increase and environmental and energy projects. The recovery of our economy will certainly take several years and, due to the mitigation of the consequences of the epidemic, the budget deficit will be high – this year even more than 4 billion, next year around 2.7 billion and in 2022 around 1.6 billion euros. We are aware that such an increased budget deficit means a derogation from the fiscal rule. But also due to the exceptional circumstances of the epidemic, this green light has already been lit at national level by the Fiscal Council and has also followed a temporary derogation from the Stability and Growth Pact rules at the level of the European Union as a whole, approved by the European Commission earlier this spring. All key international financial institutions, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund also insist that a rapid and fiscally costly response to this crisis is necessary. The International Monetary Fund notes with its latest announcement that this time it is necessary to react differently from a good decade ago in the financial crisis when the recommendations were too rapidly focused on fiscal consolidation. This time, public financial policy is set on an expansion and countercyclical basis with a view to limiting the decline in GDP. Such a fiscal policy orientation, however, requires high additional financial resources, which will be made possible by the above-mentioned high budget deficits. In the given circumstances, the second alternative to ensuring an adequate level of social security and economic recovery is, in fact, no matter how many, I believe well-intentioned warnings from the opposition. There is no country among the members of the European Union that would not have planned a budget deficit in the coming years. For example, Austria plans a 6.3% deficit for 2021, our largest export partner Germany 4.25% and even rich Norway plans a budget deficit after 25 years. Given that this country has so far recorded many times even 10% surpluses, this is a very important information. Of course, there is a question of how we can finance such a deficit. The state will be in debt for almost 7 billion, but it will go up to 3.5 billion to pay off the debt. Here, too, we are faced with criticism that the total public debt will exceed 80% of GDP. However, the positive side is that interest on Slovenian state bonds is low and therefore the share of GDP interest expenditure continues to decline. Our country’s key credit rating houses are trusted despite the rise in debt, as credit ratings remain high or even improve. The world's leading economists even believe that by the end of the pandemic, the volume of government debt should not be too concerned, as only increased government spending through budgetary deficits and increased government debt can save us from a severe economic crisis. But we are aware that it will be decisive what we will do with these resources, what we will use them for. Discernment and rationality are still important. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we find that the budgets for 2021 and 2022 are directed so that we can recover as soon as possible from the shock of the epidemic and return to normal living conditions as possible. At the same time, budgets are also optimistic, forward-looking, developmental and sustainable. In the short term, of course, no one can predict with great confidence, but with full responsibility we can say that budgets are the best possible response to the epidemic in the circumstances and that they also represent an appropriate instrument for economic recovery and for the further development of the country. For all of this, the Members of the Modern Centre Party will confirm both budgetary acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u12	Thank you very much and thank you very much! This budget must be taken or read twice. On the one hand, this is the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and on the other hand what this budget brings means or responds mainly to some tectonic movements that have taken place in the European Union with regard to the views on monetary policies and, in particular, fiscal policies in the last year. Since I had a controversy with Prime Minister Janez Janša yesterday, and he also made another announcement on Twitter about the euro and the view of economist Jožet P. Damian on it, I understood that the prime minister, although he was essentially leading the country twice during the euro crisis, still does not understand what the euro is problematic about, so that I might begin to see it. That is why what we have today, even in our budget, means a tectonic shift in relation to the pre-existing management of crises in Europe, even after the introduction of the euro. It's a short story. Following the collapse of Bretton Woods, the real regime of agreed currency values has been two attempts in Europe to establish a common monetary system or to introduce coordination between currency values. First the so-called snacks and the tunnel or snake in the tunnel in the 1970s and in the 1980s the European monetary system. Both perished very quickly because then Italy and France were unable to follow the pace of the German brand and quickly withdrew from these currency regimes and evaluated their values. But this is the reason. Due to the different historical conditions or economic conditions in these countries, Germany, on the one hand, had a traditional strong brand and, on the other hand, Italy and France and other countries of the periphery were pursuing their competitiveness by constantly devalued their currencies against the brand. Thus, if wages have grown in Italy, Italy has little value for its lira so that its products remain competitive on the international market. In the common monetary regime or the agreed monetary regime where the brand was attached to the lira, this was no longer possible and wages had to be cut or pensions cut. This was also a major warning why the euro as such cannot work in Europe. Nevertheless, French President Mitterrand and German Chancellor Kohl insisted on the euro at the time. Mitterrand, on the one hand, because he thought he was going to take this German gun out of his hand, czech, then the French franc will be as valuable as the German brand and France will be as successful as Germany, which was, of course, a complete economic nonsense. On the other hand, after Germany's merger, he saw this as some major personal project, saying that after Germany's merger with the euro, I will join Europe. They were practically all against it. Milton Friedman said that he would give the euro from five to ten years, then things would fall apart and bring the European Union with him. French communists, Italian trade unions and the German Chamber of Commerce were opposed. In the end, they even opposed the German central bank. In short, it was because of experience in the 1970s and 1980s that it turned out that the common currency could not work, hugely, but in the European leadership that some thinking developed against the flow and against economic logic, and they put this system in some hope that when the crisis comes, the leaders of the European Union will settle together and Europe, as Jean Monnet, one of the founding fathers of the European Community, will fall into the crisis, the real integration will deepen. Why couldn't the euro work? The problem was that countries were very different and that, in fact, with a single common currency, they were deprived of the opportunity to capture international competitiveness by grading their currencies. On the other hand, in Europe, there are no conditions to establish, as in America, a single currency in a complete currency area, because, on the one hand, the labour force in Europe is not as mobile as in America, and in America, at least until now, if we say Detroit is failing, no one in Europe cares if Latvia is empty or half the people of Athens move. On the other hand, European countries, unlike the American countries, appreciate their sovereignty and have never been willing to surrender their fiscal sovereignty to the European Union. These were two restrictions on which European leaders were warned, but they did not. Now, if I compare two crises, how the story unfolded. When the first crisis in 2008 was cut down in the United States and then through transatlantic finance quickly poured into Europe, because not only were the US banks that were speculating, but they were Europeans involved in the same system, eventually it was one of the largest banks on Wall Street before 2008, and it is still Deutsche Bank. [[…]] In Europe, however, the crisis really began when Greece’s problems emerged. In 2009, a new government was elected in Greece under the leadership of socialist Papandreou, who revealed that the previous conservative government had essentially gravely lied about the level of their deficit, that it was not 6%, but assessed it at least 12%, later it turned out to be quite 15%, which was either the first shot or the first sign of complete alarm in the European financial markets, which not only brought Greece, but also Italy, and the crisis slowly spread to Spain, Portugal and Ireland. In Europe, most of all, the Germans did not jerk off. They said we would embrace our financial sovereignty, we would not help countries in the crisis, and the European Central Bank was just as hard. Jean-Claude Trichet, who was then Governor of the European Central Bank, and French President Sarkozy repeatedly yelled at each other in French because of so many different views on what the policy of the European Central Bank should be. This escalated in 2011 when Europe was in a difficult crisis, and Jean-Claude Trichet ruled that the problem was essentially a sign of inflation in Germany and raised the interest rate, which brought the whole of the European South to a level, after all. And that's why I'm saying it's weird to say that the man who was prime minister at the time doesn't know that. Slovenia was also part of this cycle, this shock after the increase in interest rates in 2011, which essentially brought Europe into a second recession, which we also paid dearly. Everyone remembers, I think, well in 2012. These were responses after the previous crisis, called fiscal austerity, State discipline, hard monetary policy and each country was left to itself to save itself, as it knows and knows. What happened this year is on the verge of a miracle. Otherwise, Christine Lagarde said at the beginning of March that she did not see the need for new monetary approaches and so on, but when the economic crisis with anti-koronic measures really came to Europe, everyone changed their minds. Suddenly, we had a debate on Eurobonds, which was suppressed 10 years ago, and suddenly we had a central bank that went somehow towards whatever it takes to solve this, and suddenly we had a suspension of fiscal rules in Europe, which is also reflected in our budget. The fact that the budget can be as extensive as it is next year is in fact the reason why it is not moving in Slovenia, but moving in Europe. For the first time in more than 10 years, we do not have fiscal rules above us, but the objective of fiscal policy is to solve the crisis and start investment. That's why I'm saying it's a tectonic shift. In this respect, it is also necessary to assess the success of this government or the appropriateness of the proposal it has drawn up. My view is kind of like that. Given the historical opportunity we have and how cheap money is in fact currently, the fiscal policy objective for the next two years should be to launch those investments that were put aside 10 years ago in each budget because we had to hunt fiscal rules and did not move anywhere. In Levica, we list the following all the time: science and research, long-term care, health care, housing policy, if I mention anything, and the end of the country's preparation for decarbonisation or semi-carbonisation by 2030, to which we are committed under the Paris Agreement. But if we now ask ourselves to what extent the country has achieved these goals, we will see the following. I cannot agree with the predecessor who said that this budget is very developmental and mentioned in essence very similar sectors as I have now. But the numbers are as follows. There will be €520 million at the Ministry of Health next year, which is significantly more than this year when there were 336, but it is necessary to know that 200 of them will be immediately deducted for the settlement of the loss of the Health Insurance Institute and 77 of them will be counted as co-authors. So the money will remain less than this year, strictly for investments that are urgently needed in health care and will be stinging 69 million euros. Thus, in the budget, when we do not have fiscal rules above us and we are not committed to fiscal discipline, and in health care, which is one of the most problematic sectors in Slovenia, we will have 69 million euros in investment. Can we use this money to rebuild the UKC, build some new hospital, you can probably answer for yourself. However, I will say that our health care is currently in this state: for the last time, a colleague working on on oncology told me that for example, they had a recent case of a patient with diagnosed kidney cancer, which should be operated no later than four weeks after diagnosis to allow for normal recovery and survival – well, this man received in October 2020 on the guide of the deadline for surgery in July 2021. This is a picture of Slovenian health and the budget responds to this problem with 69 million investments. Then it's a long-term supply. We have also heard that this is one of the priority segments to be addressed in this budget. The numbers are like that. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities says that if we want to regulate long-term care, we would need 300 million euros a year. That's what Secretary NSI said. There are €23 million in the budget for 2021. So, somewhere in 12, 13 years, we're going to be able to get up to 300 million in this investment activity of the country, saying what the country at the annual level is supposed to provide for long-term care if we want to regulate it. However, I remind you that there are 12 thousand beds missing and that probably the crisis we are currently having in the DSOs – I recently read that out of the 18,000 residents infected there are as many as 500 and almost 10% – is not unrelated to how weak or how weak investment activity has been in homes for older people in recent years. Then there's the apartments, again. Young people have had to leave their homes in a mass way because of high rent prices on the one hand, and on the other hand they have to return to their parents because of loss of employment and income. For many years, various organisations have been warning in Slovenia that 10,000 public rental apartments are missing in the next budget, although we do not have any fiscal rules or commitments to fiscal discipline, EUR 6 million is earmarked for this activity. That I don't lose words about climate policy. The only thing or two things where money is, however, are the military, where EUR 780 million is foreseen for six years, is also the only activity where it is clear how investment activity will take place in six years, and in the next year at the Ministry of Finance EUR 500 million at some unclear post for a covid, why, or for what purpose, this government will use it, only Mr Šircelj and Mr Janša know. What I think we can all rightly worry about is that this government will use them primarily for some pre-election campaign by the SDS leader, because, finally, it has been doing this all the time, or it is now that the government is slipping out of hand. In short, for covid or possibly a pre-election campaign of SDS 500 million, for the 780 million euro military, for housing, for long-term care, for health care and for the climate crisis there is no money. Why isn't he here? On Friday, when you adopt an investment law for €780 million, you will most likely answer to the people at the referendum, and for today I only conclude that we have tried once again with our amendments. I do not believe, given Saturday's experience that some will be adopted, but I cannot agree with such a budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u14	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. Minister Mag. Expand, dear colleagues and colleagues! Instead of an introduction. The numbers are the ones that tell the truth. We heard some lies earlier, the military didn't take it, the military gave it to health this year, 30 million. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022 set out guidelines for the functioning of the government coalition in the management of public finances and the management of the economic and development policy of our country. For the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, the adoption of budgetary documents in addition to statutory mandatory frameworks and parameters is accompanied by great predictability and great uncertainty. This unpredictability is due to a pandemic or more precisely: syndrome. This means that it is not just an infectious disease, that it is not just a pandemic, but a number of problems. We can talk about several simultaneous epidemics of problems facing humanity, i.e. Slovenian society. Unpredictability is thus the greatest unknown in budgetary planning, because despite the great efforts of intellectuals, science, various sciences, not just medical science, we do not know when we will be able to live in a new normality. This will certainly not be what we know from the past. The assessment of New Slovenia is that the changes in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the following year and the budget for 2022 are properly prepared and in the given circumstances are well thought out. In these circumstances, it is extremely difficult to draw up budget documents. The fact is that we have significantly more strangers than in normal circumstances, we can say peace-keeping circumstances. The coalition has committed itself to the need for budgetary documents to express optimism nonetheless. Optimism for the economy, optimism for each of our citizens. Optimism also inspires us because today the vast majority of people understand the situation in which the Slovenian society is located, today the vast majority of people in tolerance and consistently respect the recommendations of the medical profession and consequently the government's rulings and the legislative provisions adopted by the National Assembly. That is why we are truly grateful to all these people. These people contribute and contribute significantly to reducing budgetary unpredictability. On behalf of New Slovenia, I also apologize to all Slovenian citizens and citizens if communication noises have ever occurred in public. We do not find the measures in textbooks, but we must act quickly and effectively. We don't have time for long-term non-productive philosophies, and the virus has it. Unfortunately, there are also rare individuals and rare groups who understand the new coronavirus as a political issue. Moreover, wearing protective masks, hygiene hands and applications Stay healthy as a political issue. Such conduct is strongly rejected. From this crisis, many countries, which are close to the European values of solidarity, should learn at least something, namely, when dealing with this crisis, should overcome different political views. The fight for the area through the corpses is not the Slovenian path. The economic and public financial and development policies for 2021 and 2022 represent a response and action to the acute situation marking this year. In particular, they aim first at restoring and strengthening the resilience of the economy, while at the same time caring for the well-being of all individuals. The acute situation in 2020, i.e. this year, reflects the consequences of the syndrome, which suddenly and to a large extent interrupted and limited economic activity and social life, resulting in a decline in key elements of economic growth, household consumption, investment and exports. Since March 2020, the government has responded with immediate action and has provided from the State budget spending funds to limit the spread of the epidemic and to preserve the economic activity and help the most vulnerable groups of our population. The measures were also directly earmarked for €2.6 billion from the 2020 state budget with an additional commitment until the start of the budget discussions. The economic policy measures implemented in 2020 have prevented a severe decline in economic activity and, according to our assessment, helped to maintain around 300,000 jobs. This represents a relatively favourable starting point for recovery in 2021 and 2022. Recovery and resilience of the economy, ladies and gentlemen, have led to the preparation of budgets and economic policies for the following year and year 2022. In the coming years, Slovenia has available additional European resources within the framework of Next Generation of the EU, which it can use for the purpose of controlling the epidemic and recovering the economy. It was just yesterday that we received a very optimistic, encouraging message from the President of the European Commission, Mrs Ursule von der Leyen, for Slovenia. This is a recovery assistance programme for cohesion and areas of Europe or REACT-EU. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, the financial perspective is also running out from 2014 to 2020, which has led to significant delays in the collection of funds over the past years, and is why the use of cohesion funds is much more extensive than in previous years in 2021 and 2022. The pace of drawing, as well as the positive impact on economic growth and the preservation of the available income of citizens, have a significant impact on fiscal and economic policy-making. Any rapid reduction in incentives over the coming years could endanger the recovery, growth and social situation of an individual in society. Recovery will take years and fiscal policy must also adapt. This is recalled by all the international institutions, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the Monetary Fund and all the Member States of the European Union. The development component of the budget is also prominent in the planning of integrated funds, where investment and investment transfers have been strengthened mainly in areas where funding is to a lesser extent provided for through additional European funds. The integral part as part of the EU also increases for investment in transport infrastructure and investment in culture, the environment and, I underline, health. In the programming structure of the state budget, the most significant increase in funding for the 2021 budget is the health care policy, the good EUR 257 million, the transport policy and transport infrastructure for the good EUR 254 million, and the protection of the environment and environmental infrastructure for the good EUR 251 million. For more than a third in 2021, resources are also increasing in the science and information society policy and in the policy of Entrepreneurship and competitiveness. While expressing developmental orientation and the potential for using European resources, the planned economic policy, through the budget, also preserves social attitudes. Social and family policies are implemented through transfers and ensure an increase in prosperity mainly for the most vulnerable groups. Compared to the adopted budget for 2021, social security policy funds increase by a good 20%, including funding for family policy, personal assistance and social assistance. About the fiscal rule. Colleagues and colleagues, you know the position of New Slovenia, you know our conservative view of public finances, but after the epidemic, after the pandemic we actually found ourselves in a situation where European institutions also have an answer, or a more accurate – fiscal rule. I would like to recall that on 20 March this year, as part of its strategy for rapid, decisive and coordinated response to the Corona pandemic, the European Commission proposed the activation of the general withdrawal clause in the Stability and Growth Pact, which we signed in March 2012. The Council supported this activation of the general derogation clause and allowed Member States to adopt measures to effectively manage the crisis. We are the first to reverse every euro of public money twice before we spend it, and we are very much in favour of respecting the fiscal rule, of course in normal economic circumstances. We were with the opposition party and were constructively involved in the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act, which required a two-thirds majority in Parliament. Our voices were there. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the following discussion will also show a comparison on the one hand between the implementation of the 2019 budget of the Republic of Slovenia and, on the other hand, between the planned expenditure for 2021 and 2022. It may be the easiest thing to provide financial resources on a specific item, on a specific programme. Realisation in 2019 shows that in many items the money was not used, it was not spent. This suggests that we have a major problem in this country. The first must be overly bureaucratic, complicated procedures for drawing European funds or resources from the national budget. This is also part of the budgetary debate in some way. That's our job. As you know, we've taken a big bite into this problem. We want to debirocratize procedures as soon as possible, since we have overrun them over the last ten years. So, the funds planned on a particular programme, on a specific item, we also want to make maximum use of it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we Members and Members must be the ones who give an optimistic signal to the Slovenian public, to taxpayers, to businesses and to everyone for whom we accept this budget. No one in this budget shall be forgotten. Therefore, Mr Minister, citizens and citizens, on the basis of the proposed budget documents for 2021 and 2022 here, I express my support for New Slovenia for all the budgetary documents currently on the agenda of the National Assembly. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u16	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We could say that the covida-19 epidemic is the ruler of the budget for the next two years. This year, a temporary derogation from the long-term balance of public finances is still possible, which we cannot claim for 2022. We recognize 2022 as the year in which the crisis caused by the covida epidemic will only show itself in its entirety. The second wave of the epidemic postponed the expected recovery dynamic and increased uncertainty. Recovery and the expected financial picture of the country depend largely on the appropriateness of the projects on which Slovenia will be authorised by the European Commission to draw on the European funds of the financial package. Many of the measures taken to combat the covida-19 epidemic have a significant impact on public finances, so each such measure must have an impact assessment, to what extent an individual measure has prevented the loss of economic activity and job losses. We are aware that measures at the first wave of the epidemic are intended to mitigate the decline in economic growth by 15%. In view of the response of the service sector, whose operation has stopped the second wave again, we rightly ask ourselves whether measures will actually protect these sectors and, consequently, our citizens and citizens from losing their jobs. In the SAB, we regret that there was no follow-up in the Government and coalition to provide pensioners with free urban transport, and the supplement to which we allocated additional funds to the Older Ageing Programme. There was no listening in the coalition, nor any addition to providing all primary schools and students with free tablet computers and a mobile internet card, thus allowing children from socially weaker families to study remotely. There was also no follow-up to the supplement that would provide free protection masks. The updated budget for 2022 contains only one amendment, which provides EUR 4 million of budget money for the Slovenian Liberation Museum. In the SAB, we do not consider this project a priority, which is why we have proposed an amendment that would earmark these funds for a project that has been in remission for many years, and this is the Maribor Library. In addition, we have also tried to ensure that all the necessary funds are provided for the western maribor bypass, as the funds now provided cover only preparatory work. In the SAB, we believe that in the budget for the next two years we should allocate the most resources to where the burdens are greatest, and this is health. Public health has the biggest deficit, and here the government no longer has a solution. If the government devotes only an additional 100 million dollars to the health budget at 13 billion, we cannot say that the latter has done its mission in the field of health. The state of our health has been in crisis for a long time, and the epidemic is only exacerbating it, and health care should be given much more resources. The fact is, in the event of a record debt and budget deficit, the measures taken to our health system did not bring the expected resistance to the epidemic. In the SAB, we do not criticize the highly planned expenditure aimed at helping the economy and people, but there is a very high risk at this point that the allocated resources will not have the effect they are pursuing and that adequate control will not be exercised over the use of these funds. Such supervision would be achieved through the establishment of a specific budget fund that would record every cent of public money spent for a specific purpose. In view of the uncertain times ahead of us in the SAB, we believe that the government should reduce expenditure that is not related to the epidemic. Among these expenditure are the demography office, which is allocated 1.5 million public money, although such an office could operate at significantly lower costs within the existing department. uncontrolled and unnecessary expenditure growth poses a risk to the medium-term stability of public finances, which will have to be addressed by the next government. In the SAB we are neither critical nor pessimistic, but only objective. We call for a sober awareness that public funds must be spent prudently, efficiently and in particular on development that will be able to reactivate weakened economic activity and population consumption. We must be aware that all these funds will have to be returned sometime and that today we are burdening the next generation with record indebtedness. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the draft budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u18	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Responsible public funding planning is at the heart of a stable economic policy of the country, but it is not its own intention either. It should ensure that public funds are used in an orderly manner, in accordance with the economic power of the State and at the highest level of the priorities set, and the Government is therefore obliged to ensure responsible implementation of the public financial policy in the context of all other priorities. The Slovenian state organises defence during the period of pandemic shock. Budgets for the next two years are the main fiscal bases for the achievement of the goals in favour of the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia. The creators of these measures understand the nature of the current crisis, which is only a little compared to the euro crisis 10 years ago. Today, as at that time, it is not the problem of businesses and households that lacks liquidity, but rather the solvency crisis. In order to halt the crisis, governments need to go to the end of the historically undeclared fiscal expansion measures, and the question is, perhaps, to where. Knowledge of economic development is very limited. It is therefore advisable to be modest in policy-making and to be cautious in over generalisation. The task of the State is to use the budget to balance the economy. The budget may be designed for deficits or for surpluses, depending on recession or conjuncture expectations. The state budget should not only be dealt with in bookkeeping, but also in terms of organising the demand for national cohesion and productivity growth. The budget is by no means just an accounting document, it is not just a balance sheet of state revenue and expenditure, it is said that this is not the case in particular. The budget is essentially a reflection of the economic policy of a particular government or authority. It expresses its economic and political priorities, what is most important to the government, which it will focus on in the future. The details of the budgetary structure reveal the consequences that will have a long-term impact on the economic development and quality of life of citizens in the broadest sense. The pandemic has pushed us into an inevitable recession. It marked the end of the monetary fantasy with a continuous decline in the reference rates and the transition to fiscal expansion policy. Fiscal policy can respond in principle to the demands of economic stabilisation, while the prospects of central banks to succeed in this area are negligible. What fiscal measures would therefore be most effective in achieving economic stability? Most of us must be afraid of returning to the bad old days when the fiscal pipe opened and closed in moments of panic or for political reasons. The starting point of any applicable fiscal policy is the extent of public consumption, and this scope is not determined by the need for fiscal policy in itself, but by the needs of society for public services and services. In this way, when public consumption is determined, how much money must be provided by taxation or, more broadly, by budgetary revenue. We need to distinguish between long-term capital investments and short-term stabilisation policies. Capital investments must ensure a stable flow of investment projects independently of business cycles. However, short-term policies need to strengthen stability by ensuring public sector business. One and the other aims to ensure a certain degree of automation in the management of long-term and short-term demand. Credit and debt alone are not a problem. The problem is, in what way and for what purpose they are used. The complexity of the epidemic is reflected in the fact that there is always an area of expression between natural and social definitions. It is not possible to circumvent the economic basis of economic activity between social definitions. In this place, however, we face the inevitable obvious but universally ignored facts. This is because it is impossible to predict the future economic situation in the economy, the transition from time to time to recession and from recession to good time. There are plenty of forecasts, but not solid knowledge. All compete with various combinations of uncertain government activities, with the unknown behaviour of businesses and individuals, including the unpredictability of the epidemiological situation, the response of consumers and investors. Here are the different effects of exports, imports, capital movements and reactions of the public, corporations and governments to them. Therefore, too obvious is the following: something cannot be known, which is the result of combinations unknown. The revenue of the state budget for 2021 is estimated at EUR 10 billion and EUR 721 million, which is 390 million less than the original proposal, according to the proposal for amending the budget. For 2022, revenues are estimated at EUR 11 billion and EUR 5 million. The structure of revenue in both financial years shows a significant Slovenian inevitability. Only four tax types, income, corporate income tax, value added tax and excise duty represent 70% not only tax but also total budget revenue. In 2021 this percentage is 70.4, and for 2022 this percentage is 71.9. Members of the Desus Group are convinced that these two data are sufficiently relevant to the importance of state finances, so any adventurous experimentation, such as by reducing the tax rates of the tax types mentioned above, must be rejected on the basis of this. The budget expenditure for 2021 is increasing according to the original proposal of €3 billion and €13 million and is set at €13 billion and €468 million. In 2022 it is estimated at 12 billion and 598 million euros. So we have a projected budget deficit of €2 billion and €746 million in 2021 and €593 million in 2022. The developmental orientation of the budget is demonstrated through different parameters. The most important of these is the amount of funds earmarked for investments, which is the sum of investment expenditure and investment transfers. The sum of both types of budget expenditure for 2021 is billions and 973 million euros. I am speaking only of one, 2021st financial year, which is 980 million more than the budget originally adopted. An additional increase of €100 million is planned in 2022 and will total €2 billion and €74 million. The structure of expenditure in the specific part of the budget for 2021 shows the highest increase in the area of five ministries in the light of the budget adopted. At the Ministry of Health for €334 million, at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for €308 million, at the Ministry of Infrastructure for €269 million, at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport for €192 million and at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology for €122 million. If we include an increase of €2 billion and €264 million at the Ministry of Finance as the Ministry that is crucial for the implementation of the state budget, we will get a total of €2 billion and €451 million, and this will also give us a direct response on the purpose of using borrowed foreign savings. I would like to put one ministry in particular on the expenditure side, this is the Ministry of Health. In the 2021 budget changes, EUR 528 million is allocated to it. By comparison, ladies and gentlemen, in 2016, expenditure at this Ministry was worth €82 million throughout the year, and in 2019 it increased to €183 million, for 2021, according to the following financial year, it is estimated at €528 million. From 2016 to 2021, so in five years, from €82 million to €528 million. Whoever wants to see it will see it. The programme priorities of the budget changes for next year show an increase in the share of expenditure devoted to investment in the areas of individual budgetary policies. Pension, transport and transport infrastructure policies, social security, health and environmental protection and environmental infrastructure are the most outstanding. Members of the Desus Group specifically stress the value of co-financing the pension fund, which increases in 2021 by 403 million, to a billion and 337 million euros. Transport policy expenditure and transport infrastructure also exceed a billion euros, a billion and 26 million euros, and are 285 million euros higher than originally planned. Investments in transport infrastructure are among the key generators of economic growth. The aim of this type of investment is to ensure more efficient public rail infrastructure and road transport, and to improve the condition of roads with a high level of use, transport safety and to raise standards of regular maintenance. Expenditure in the field of health care policy is also increasing. This is not just about funding through the Ministry of Health. There are 446 million euros planned, which is 256 million more than the original proposal. Social security policy is higher than €260 million. Expenditure in this area will amount to €1 billion and €481 million. Environmental protection policy and environmental infrastructure have been given the disturbing, unnecessary propaganda brutality of opponents of the current government beyond all understandable proportions. The revised budget for 2021 provides EUR 528 million, which is more than the basic proposal for EUR 251 million. The government and the minister charged with anti-ecological behaviour are committed to protecting the environment and environmental infrastructure by 250 million euros more money than the one before it, which has been ecologically informed. In the proposal for amending the budget for 2021, the state's expansion fiscal policy is reflected in increased expenditure in all budgetary policies. For the purpose of today's presentation, I refer only to policies where the increase is more than 100 million, namely: Education and sport, totalling 2 billion and 36 million, increase by 127 million; Science and the information society, 493 million total expenditure, increase by 120 million and increase by Entrepreneurship and competitiveness policy, total 652 million euros, increase by 113 million. In the framework of Entrepreneurship and competitiveness, the funds need to be noted, in addition to the balance of revenue and expenditure, are also allocated to the accounts of financial claims and investments, in particular to the restructuring of non-financial and financial corporations. Ladies and gentlemen, unlike monetary policy and its complicated mechanisms, fiscal policy is a little easier to understand. But this has not helped to spread the delusions associated with fiscal policy. The first distortion of fiscal policy is that the budget must be balanced within each economic cycle and that the budget deficit is the greatest evil. The error is taken over from the most developed countries, which already have a high level of public services and services, and they also have developed infrastructure. When less developed countries, including Slovenia, are among them, taking over such mythology, condemning themselves to accept poor infrastructure and low levels of public consumption, in particular in the areas of education, health and social protection. If it insists that the budget must be balanced and, nevertheless, invests in infrastructure, then the huge cost burden of its expensive construction will fall to one generation only, even though the benefits of the built infrastructure will also be used by future generations. Such generous intergenerational gifts are not only unnecessary but, above all, pointless. The second fiscal policy error is linked to limiting public debt to gross domestic product. The popular restriction established in the euro area is that public debt must not exceed 60% of gross domestic product. The shame of this limitation is that it ignores the reality and the economic crisis. Above all, it ignores the different needs of the developed countries. There is no empirical basis that could justify such restrictions on public consumption. And there is no formula to show at which level public debt needs to be limited in order to ensure financial stability. Experience has shown that countries can also function normally at over 100 % of public debt. For example, Italy has been operating for decades. Or even at a level of public debt higher than 230 % of gross domestic product, for which the case is Japan. On the other hand, countries may also face a severe financial crisis at the level of 10 % of gross domestic product, for which the 1997 South Korean case is highly developed. The amount of public debt is by no means a key risk factor. A key risk factor is linked to a foreign component of public debt, greater than the share of public debt in the hands of foreign creditors, and a greater risk of financial crisis. However, despite this fact, no one and never proposes to limit the borrowing of foreign creditors. The third distortion of fiscal policy is that the budget must not be financed by the money of the central bank, as this inevitably leads to an increase in budgetary spending and inflation, and it is therefore important that budgets be financed by private sector money, particularly financial ones, because this ensures the rationality of public spending. It follows from this that the private financial sector is the indirect controller of budgetary responsibility, as it will never finance excessive public spending and will not allow unreasonable public debt growth. This structure is also not in conformity with the facts. If the financial sector had really worked in the manner described, there would never have been a public debt crisis, because countries could not have exceeded its set frameworks. For comparison only, when the debt of the euro area country exceeds or exceeds 60% of gross domestic product, banks should stop lending the budget. The truth may be completely different. The financial sector continues to credit the budget while raising interest rates. The financial sector lends its interests to the countries in question because the profits are the largest and such countries can be drained to poverty. To put it simply, the financial sector is no obstacle to public debt growth. The responsible countries themselves must take care of the height, structure and sustainability of their own public debt. The financial sector will not do this in their place. And the Communication is clear, successful financial markets require the state to set a framework for the functioning of markets. In the game between the state and the markets, the state must not lose if we want to preserve political and economic democracy before the dictatorship of the oligarchs. We need a social state, more public and private consumption, and a little more confidence in entrepreneurship and innovation. The payment of the current epidemiological crisis needs to be more evenly divided between capital and work. In this donor economy, however, it is not more important than a lady, but how we do it and who is involved. That is why the solution to the current crisis is a civil and not just a political and economic issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I am moving on to the expenditure structure of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022. This expenditure structure shows an increase in expenditure on the following policies compared to the changes in 2021 that I have just considered. Re-increase in environmental protection and infrastructure policy, where 687 million expenditure is foreseen, which is still 158 million more than in 2021. The second area is Defence and Protection with 685 million expenditure, where the increase from 2021 is slightly less than €53 million. This is how the reconstruction of the Slovenian Army is gradually starting. The Slovenian Armed Forces is the most important component of the national security system. Its size, weapons and composition depend on state policy and military doctrine. In Slovenia, the attitude towards the country's vital resources has become a matter of dilettarian political decisions and amateurism, which lead members of the Slovenian Army to poor paramilitary poverty. It is wrong to believe that NATO membership in the Pact ensures long-term security because it ignores the artificial legality of the organisational theory by which all organisations have their life cycle and are not bound by its duration. We do not care that in these troubled years after the financial crisis we have succeeded in undermining the foundations of our own armed forces. The authorities must ensure that the country is defended primarily by defence of the military profession. In order for the army to survive, the state must take care of its soldiers. The third important policy in the expenditure structure of the budget for 2022, where there is an increase on the basis of the proposal in 2021, is the science and information society policy. Here expenditure is projected at EUR 517 million, which means more than 24 million euros than is foreseen in 2021. What cannot be overlooked in the review of the specific part of the budget for 2022 and the expenditure structure by individual ministries and policies is that, even in 2022, expenditure remains at crisis levels on the following policies: education and sport, €2 billion and €30 million; social security, €486 million; pension protection, €1 billion and €291 million; transport and transport infrastructure, €947 million; and again, Entrepreneurship and competitiveness, €573 million. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Desus Group are of the view that practical logic and common sense require that society be linked to achievable objectives, but not divided by specific interests. We're not going to solve the crisis with miracles. It may take a long time, but society needs leadership in times of crisis, not preparation for reckoning and calculation. The crisis caused by the virus has halted economic growth in a completely new way, with which we have no experience, so the country must take control of the economy in order to respond adequately to the crisis. Given the potential risks, we cannot know whether the measures are sufficient. We need tough decisions. How and how difficult, we will begin to understand only after we admit that the rules we have played so far are no longer in force. Public finances are expected to confirm the economic performance of the government administration, but are budgets developed or are they merely a fiscal bag to fill legal and agreed budget users' items? It is difficult to conceptually combine counter-direction, such as fiscal stability and social cohesion or environmental efficiency and economic competitiveness. Short-term and long-term measures and budget sustainability adjustments are difficult to predict in terms of estimated and planned economic developments. And however we turn things around, the problem is not in paper, the problem is not in the guidelines, the problem is mainly in their ability to operate. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 and the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities will be presented by Felice Žiž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u20	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Egregio Vice Presidente della Camera di Stato, Grazie per la password. Egregi deputies! Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! We live in a time of great uncertainty. The covid-19 virus is our biggest opponent at this time, not only endangering our health, but it has stopped our lives again, as a result it has deepened the economic and social crisis and has accelerated other tectonic processes, such as the faster development of modern technologies. After five sets of anti-Korona measures and the rebalancing of the state budget for this year, we have before us a proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 and an updated draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 and a package of legislative acts related to their implementation. The delegation of the Italian and Hungarian national communities will support the draft budget legislation mentioned above. The normalisation of life will need to be done primarily to restore the domestic economy and increase its resilience, and to ensure the well-being of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, while making it possible to further develop the country and the community during and after the pandemic. For all of the said and Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of the following year, the draft budget acts provide funds, which will also have to be counted on by Brussels. Since adequate budgetary funding is essential for the implementation of constitutional and legal commitments and sectoral policies for the protection of indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities and for their existence and development, we welcome the proposed resources for the public and equal use of Italian and Hungarian languages in national mixed areas, for education and education, for information, publishing and cultural activities in the mother tongue and for the development of the economic basis of indigenous national communities. As we have already mentioned, our Group of Members will support all proposed budgetary acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us the adoption of the draft amendments to the state budget for 2021 and the draft state budget for 2022. Both budgets are prepared in fairly unpredictable circumstances, but according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, both documents are development-oriented while maintaining concern for the well-being of the people. When planning budgets, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took into account the autumn forecast of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, Umar. A gradual recovery of the economy is expected, but it will still not be at the level before the epidemic crisis. The budgets for 2021 and 2022 represent a response to the tightening conditions that mark this year, while at the same time focusing on the recovery and strengthening of the resilience of the economy. In both budget documents, for 2021 and 2022, investments in transport infrastructure, health, social protection and the environment are being strengthened. At the same time, both documents can be said to provide for the well - being of individuals. The draft budget for 2021 provides for revenue of around €10.72 billion, which is 3 per cent less than in the next year's budget. Expenditure will reach around €13.47 billion in the plans and 28% more than in the adopted budget for 2021. The budget deficit is expected to reach just below €2.75 billion and 5.6% of gross domestic product. The 2022 draft budget, however, provides for slightly less than €11 billion in revenue, which is 2.6% more than in the 2021 draft amending budget. Expenditure is planned to be slightly less than €12.60 billion, which is less than the expenditure planned in the 2021 budget amendments. The deficit is projected to reach around €1.59 billion or 3.1% of gross domestic product. The assessment of compliance with the fiscal rules for 2020 is subject to exceptional circumstances. The European Commission has already announced, in the light of uncertainty about the development of the epidemic and the social and economic consequences, that this will be the case in 2021. This will allow large-scale fiscal measures to support recovery. At the same time, the Fiscal Rule Act also provides for exceptional circumstances allowing a derogation from the medium-term balance of public finances. The covida-19 epidemic actually stopped life and economy overnight in the Republic of Slovenia and consequently reduced the main revenue of the budget, such as excise duty, value added tax, income tax and corporate income tax. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, it is considered essential that investment in infrastructure, including transport connections, health care, environmental protection and science, information society, entrepreneurship and competitiveness, be substantially raised both in the draft amending budget for 2021 and in the budget for 2022. For 2021, €972 million will be allocated for investment expenditure. Investment transfers will amount to €431 million in 2021 and health resources will increase by €257.4 million next year and €251 million for environmental protection and infrastructure. More than a third of the funds are earmarked for science and the information society, entrepreneurship and competitiveness. A higher average of €628 is also foreseen for municipalities for both years. The annual pension allowance, which is increasing compared to 2020, will be at five levels and pensions will also be adjusted to 2.5% on a regular basis in January 2021. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the Government has responded decisively to this crisis and is also managing it successfully. Five packages, so-called anti-kronapacket, have already been accepted, and the 6th package, anti-kronapacket, is still under consideration in the National Assembly, and its value is higher than €1 billion. All these packages, prepared by the Government and endorsed by the National Assembly, mainly include measures relating to aid for people, people, the economy and jobs. In all these measures, money has actually been given to the one most needed, that is, to the people. Unlike previous crises, financial institutions have not been resolved this time. An important message from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is that a package of seven is already being prepared. It is important for the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that all these measures have been assessed more than positively by the economists. So far, we have come to realize that the covid virus is not just a threat to health, but that the covid-19 virus is a major threat to the economy, the economy and the jobs. One of the major events that happened is that Moody's credit rating agency increased the rating price of the Republic of Slovenia by one rate. This happened in October. The rating of Slovenia has increased to A3 and has contributed to stable prospects. The credit rating agency thus confirmed that Slovenia remains a credible country for investors in these difficult times as well. The credit rating agency noted that the covida-19 pandemic would affect the public finances of the Member States of the European Union. Moody's expects that the public finances and economic foundations that Slovenia has built before the covida crisis will remain resistant to the effects of the crisis and that public finances will remain stable and banks will be liquid. This is certainly an important message that brings a positive response in the future. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the measures taken by the Government are good, successful and effective. There is no doubt that the measures have been successful, and there is also a comparison of the fall of the gross domestic product of the countries of the European Union, Europe, compared with Slovenia. Slovenia was better at falling gross domestic product in 2021 than other countries and is above average. The measures taken are, of course, the reason for this. A positive assessment is also made for the growth of gross domestic product, which is foreseen for 2021. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that an important communication on the Committee on Finance, which addressed the draft amendments to the budget for 2021 and 2022, is also a statement by the Minister of Finance, who said that in 2021 taxes will not increase, nor will new taxes be introduced, and it is planned that some taxes will be reduced. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are convinced that this is an important message for both citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and economists. We are convinced that the draft amendments to the budget for 2021 and the budget for 2022 are prepared accordingly. Both documents are targeted and development-oriented. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the successful implementation of the budget in 2021 and 2022 are European funds. Here, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must continue to take decisive action and prepare quality programmes for drawing on European money available to Slovenia. Slovenia has applied for EUR 1.1 billion from the SURE scheme, and from now on it is available from this drawdown programme already EUR 200 million. The Recovery and Resilience Fund, an important fund that makes €5.2 billion available to Slovenia in this context, of which €1.6 billion and €3.6 billion are reimbursed. Preparation of the Recovery and Resistance Plan is important. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up such a programme that will have a developmental impact and a multiplier effect on the budget. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect the preparation of this programme to be based mainly on the preparation of an environment that will allow foreign investors to arrive, because if foreign investors do not come to Slovenia, they will come to their neighbours. Preparation of an environment that will allow new businesses to enter. Maintaining jobs alone will not be enough to overcome this crisis. It is important to prepare an environment that will allow new businesses to enter. Productivity must be increased as a matter of urgency. Increasing productivity requires regulation and modernisation of the labour market, which is one of the basis for increasing productivity. Today and in the past, Slovenia mainly exported highly qualified workers and imported low-skilled workers. This will certainly not increase productivity. Tax relief is important, tax reform is necessary, and it will certainly be necessary to be more rational in social transfer policies and to have social transfers that do not promote social tourism. A clear demographic policy needs to be made. Changes in this area are necessary. I would conclude by saying that it is important that we have a functioning and successful economy and a stable health system. Both documents, both in the amending budget for 2021 and in the budget for 2022, provide significantly higher funds for the most vulnerable areas – economy, social and health. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will unanimously support the draft amendments to the budget for 2021 and the budget for 2022.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Brane Golubović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u24	How nice to meet you all! Although the lights of the media are currently directed at others, including vital or more important matters, today we have two acts that will have an outstanding impact on the future of our country. These are budgets for the next two years. And if we add to this the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and the current and future multiannual European financial framework, we will get basic documents to address the economic and social damage caused by the crisis co-existence and the foundations for the country's post-crisis development breakthrough. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we hoped that the Government would be aware of this and prepare documents that would concretely outline the direction of economic and social development for the next 10 years. There shouldn't be any mistakes here, but from what we can see, we were hoping for nothing. Expectations were too high. What's the reality? Not exactly the light. There is very little time left, and the budgets we are considering today are not good. At first glance, they are good, well placed, and all ministries and municipalities receive more. The funds are indeed large, in two years 26 billion, but beneath this beautiful budget facade there is an unstructured and non-systemic distribution of public funds without a clear picture of how to achieve the coordinated development of our country and to stabilise public finances in the medium and long term. But it's not just the budget problem of our country. Problems have also arisen in the preparation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, through which Europe of Slovenia, under certain conditions, allocates EUR 5.2 billion. The fact is that the European Commission has assessed the national plan prepared by the Government since the beginning of the summer and sent it to Brussels in October as inadequate because it has not followed its guidelines. In summary, what did not have a national plan or in which parts it was weak: the government plan was unstructured, weak, flawed, overscaled, too general, it was not clear how the plan would contribute to Slovenia's green and digital transformation, and reforms and investments are not linked to a meaningful whole, which is essential for the development of all segments of society. We can say that the government plan on which it depends, whether we can benefit from €5.2 billion in the coming years, was more similar to the purchasing list of the ruling set and their supporters than to the plan to address the economic and social consequences of the cod crisis. It is weak and irresponsible that when we adopt budgetary documents for the next two years due to the incompetence of the government of Janez Janša, we do not or do not have certain priority projects and reforms from the national plan. This is a truly missed opportunity. Although the government has been given the opportunity to make a correctional exam, which is good, but the damage is done and the government continues to repeat the same or the same mistakes. Despite the recommendations made by the European Commission that the Government should include the professional and interested public and the social partners in the preparation, they have not yet done so. The government's national plan is being prepared on its own, self-sufficient. No one knows whether the recommendations of the European Commission, the guidance of the European Commission and what development projects and reforms the Government will place in the national plan are being followed. We have been calling on and reminding in the Marjan Šarc Letter since summer that it is necessary to include in the preparation of documents all those who know what in our country, regardless of their political affiliation or non-compliance, and very clearly in this document the priorities of our country for the post-covidal development breakthrough. On the basis of these priorities, it is necessary to develop national and regional public investment projects that, together with reforms, will have multiple effects or will have a positive impact on all segments of our society. Priorities that need to be complemented and linked to a meaningful whole and must demonstrate a high level of social consensus. For us in the List of Marjan Šarca, these priorities are very clear. We advocate: strong strengthening of public health, providing incentives for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, connecting research institutes and the economy, strengthening the public education system, investing in the development of green technologies, in clean energy and energy efficiency, investing in public infrastructure projects, continuing the digital transformation of society and adopting a solidarity model of long-term care and upgrading the pension system in order to be stable in the future. European funds are available for all these priorities as they follow the European Commission's guidelines for an exit from the economic and social crisis resulting from the pandemic. We are confident – once again – that development can only be achieved through the integration of all the potentials that this country has. And this country has a lot of potential in people and institutions. Unfortunately, the government doesn't see it. The exclusion chosen by this government is the path to stagnation and increasing backlog for the most developed, to inequality in all areas at home. Regrettably, the government continues to act as if these priorities were to disappear from the European Commission's direction if they repeatedly force their scattered investment. The opportunity is still, money is really enough from different European mechanisms and instruments, but as we have already mentioned many times: under certain conditions, and one of the conditions is also an inclusive society. In addition to European funds, the government will also be heavily indebted this year and for the next two years. It is logical that in these times of crisis the budget is also based on debt; we are not an exception; all countries across Europe are in debt. But this government, or its debt of EUR 10 billion, or EUR 9.3 million a day in three years, has two problems. First, that this debt is extremely high, and secondly that it is not clear why funds will be used and how we will repay them. This is what the Fiscal Council has already pointed out in the 2020 budget rebalancing process, and it also points out in both of these budgets. But they still act carefreely on the government, acting as if these warnings were not relevant to them. Moderate indebtedness is essential in these times, and we agree on this in the LMŠ. However, it is important that the Government knows how much it can be committed to, which investment projects and programmes it will direct, what the effects of these will be, how the debt will affect all segments of society, how we will return it, or whether investments and incentives will indirectly or directly cover debt costs. What a debt over the next three years should be if the Government wants to draw up a realistic and budgetable budget depends largely on the national recovery and resilience plan, which unfortunately is not yet ready. This is where the government really missed. Since both budgets and the National Recovery and Resistance Plan need to be interlinked, they need to be complemented, upgraded. The fact that we owe ourselves, without knowing exactly why the funds will be spent and how we will return, that we still do not have a national plan to benefit from European funds is very irresponsible. Unresponsible to the country, irresponsible to the people and, above all, irresponsible to the future. We are not surprised by the letter of Marjan Charc of this week's government. All of this has already been seen, it is the way John Janša and his governments operate. Let us briefly recall the first and second government of Janša. After the first Janša government, the financial crisis proved that his first government had made wrong and harmful decisions, acted irresponsiblely on public finances and state assets, and strongly overheated our economy. All of this resulted in a collapse of the economy at the time of the global financial crisis. Nothing was better at the time of the financial and economic crisis in 2012 and 2013, when the other Janša government managed the crisis completely inappropriately – let's just remember the severe austerity measures – and later governments had to fix all of this. If we put aside poor governance of public finances and state assets and the adoption of reckless and harmful measures during the first and second Janša government, we can see that they were harmful, reckless conduct in this mandate, both in the opposition and when the SDS came to the government. I believe that you all remember that the current Minister of Finance was the main protagonist of the 2019 budget rebalance adopted and implemented by the government of Marjan Sarca. Today we know that Minister Shirtzelj has made a grave mistake. Shame on her, you might say. He was also wronged by colleagues from SDS and Nova Slovenije. Let me just remind you how the Head of Members of New Slovenia explained that the balance of the budget for 2019 is the moral gambling of the government of Sharčev, that we will be living for 100 years, at the expense of our children and their children, at the expense of our descendants. And when the government of Marjana Sarca actually reduced Slovenia's public debt and debt, the budget created surpluses and largely abolished the austerity measures of the previous governments, particularly the government of Janez Janša, started with tax restructuring and could also be listed. Nevertheless, the current Minister of Finance, and some Members and Members sitting in the coalition today, claimed that the budget's balance was unconstitutional and thus went to the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Court poured pure wine on them this year and made it very clear that the budget balance of the government of Marjan Sarca, which had a circus of 225 million euros in surplus, was not unconstitutional. Not to mention that the Court of Auditors gave a positive opinion on this budget balance, which today's minister and a number of members of the coalition mistakenly claimed or claimed to be unconstitutional. There has been no excuse for this big financial error to date. Is this the kind of expertise you'd expect from a government team from a financial department team? Are these people that are trustworthy? Is the Minister of Finance, along with the President of the Government, the Ombudsman's treasury? It's not. We cannot trust them in the List of Marjan Šarc that they know how to plan and manage public finances, if only a year ago they have been so badly messed up, they have been so greatly wronged, they have been listed in the key document of the country, the documents they are presenting today, and they have been prepared and claimed to be okay. That we cannot trust them, they also show their actions and actions in the last eight months of their leadership. The purchase of protective and medical equipment by the Government has been cataclysmic and imprecisely guided, shot at with corruption risks and inquality purchases, as confirmed by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which investigates suspicious government transactions. The police, the D.A. and the Court of Auditors are also investigating the matter. Even today, fans purchased before summer are not used. The response to the second wave is weak and too slow, which is widely known. Even the President of the Republic said that days ago. And unfortunately, because of the delay, the slow pace of action, the consequences are significantly worse than they would have been if the Government acted in time and in accordance with the section's recommendations. If I could just mention old people's homes. Sadly, they remain unprepared for the second wave and are left to themselves, but they are not alone. There has also been an increase in the foreign policy of this government, which has become a party foreign policy, we have a very tense relationship with Brussels, China, from now on with the United States of America. Let me also remind you of all anti-koronapackets and measures to help the population and companies where the realization was extremely poor. A low effectiveness of the measures was also identified by the Fiscal Council. All of this is due to poor planning, poor management and management of matters covered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and all of these are things that make it very difficult for us to trust this government team. One gets the feeling that this government is particularly good at the pianist policy it implements, at making the impression that they are working and acting, and at the heaviness of spending public money, at the same time buying public support but at the same time jeopardising the future of our country. Let me finish. We will not support both budgets because of all that has been said in the List of Marjan Šarc. One more time. It is not insignificant, it is not really irrelevant what the Government of SDS will do in the next two years with all these billions of euros, so we simply cannot give the government a bill of 26 billion euros in the Marjan Sarca List.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded with a joint introductory presentation and a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups on both proposals for acts. We are moving on to a debate on each proposal for an act separately. We continue with item 2 of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021. We are moving on to a debate on the draft budget changes. We will discuss individual parts of the draft amending budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, the general part, the specific part and the development programme plan shall be considered. We are moving on to the general part of the draft amending budget. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u26	Dear Vice President! The meeting will be a long one today, so it is very important how it is guided. I'm not telling you anything about how you're taking her away from not being scared, but I can't hear you and I don't understand what you're saying. You've got a mask upstairs, you've got to lean on the microphone, you've got to tell the techs to give it louder or whatever, but I need to hear you. I can't hear you. So please also all colleagues and colleagues, I understand you, no one wants to talk out loud because they feel that they are screaming, but we are very bad at hearing these masks, so let us do something – either technique or louder or whatever. I'm asking you nicely because otherwise we won't hear what we're saying. It sounds great on TV, but we don't hear anything here in this room.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Please make sure we speak a little louder. First of all, he's got the word "minister." Mr. Secretary, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me to take a look at some of the views of the parliamentary groups that have been told here and to give explanations and answers. First of all, I would like to talk about a comment or an opinion on the less transparency of spending on cod. In this regard, I would like to reiterate, for the first time, that the Ministry of Finance or the Government treats and records separately the expenditure related to covid, those directly linked and those indirectly linked, and that it reports to the National Assembly on how much expenditure has actually been spent on covid. The national assembly or committees or commissions shall receive reports which are then also dealt with. This has already been said on the Committee on Finance in this regard. If the National Assembly wants further reports, of course, we are available. In this regard, I would like to draw attention once again to what is simply a fact – that the Ministry is reporting to the Commission on Public Finance Supervision. The other thing I'd like to say is about priority. There have been several questions or dilemmas regarding the priorities of this budget. The priorities are reflected in the budget. The priorities are also reflected in the national programme and in the third part of the budget. Something was mentioned. This is about investments, we mentioned two investments of 2 billion for 2021 and similar for 2022. We are talking about infrastructure projects, about railways, about roads, we are talking about different environmental projects. Of course, all projects are adapted according to the criteria or criteria given by the European Commission, it is said that they include green to include digital and long-term. As regards individual projects, especially in the area of infrastructure, when we are talking about efficiency, it has also been stressed that there is too little emphasis in the budgets on ensuring efficiency. These projects are managed in accordance with all the rules required by public finances, including the European Commission and the banks, given that they are mixed funds or that they are financed from various means to say better. Accordingly, for certain projects, profitability or effectiveness and their multiplicity are expressed later. It's probably clear here to everyone and everyone else. For example, railways, construction, railway modernisation has a multiple effect and profitability is expressed in a later period, not when it is being built. It's like the roads and so on. Health care was also mentioned. It was mentioned that it is not quite true how much is given for health care because it is already intended to cover the losses of a health insurance company. These losses of a health insurance company for 2020 must, of course, be determined first. In addition to the need to determine, it must also be assessed independently and, of course, the reasons why this has come. However, the fact is that health resources in the budget are increasing by some 100 million compared to 2019 and that these are not the only funds. In fact, the Health Insurance Office receives direct funds from the health insurance contribution amounting to 3.6 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: Some offices continue to have less money or are expected to have less money than they had in the previous year or in 2020. Here I would like to point out that even if they have professional offices, I don't know, Umar, statistics and so on, less money planned for 2021, it's because they planned it themselves. They have just estimated that for various reasons they will have less money, and this does not mean anything that some institutions would now want to pay less or anything else. Here, I will say, a historical review of the monetary union, which has also been given in one of the positions, and that the euro should fall and so on, that it is not the real currency. The euro today is a means of payment, the euro today is a currency, the euro today is also a means to be saved, and, of course, here in connection with this historic review of the monetary theory presented by Member of the Month, I certainly cannot agree with these conclusions. The euro is today a currency that is in the world, of some value, of great value, so that, of course, nothing will happen to the euro. As an upgrade, however, a single system for bank supervision is provided. If we are talking about investments again, it should be said that there are also plans in this budget for investments in health care, building hospitals or upgrading, modernising hospitals, including care for older people, including from European funds, so that funds are set out from this point of view or certain projects also, I will say, implemented into reforms themselves, health insurance reforms. If we are talking about reform, it must be digital, supported by digitisation, now we get European funds, but at the same time it can also include certain facilities or hospitals as, I will say, the basis where actual health activities are carried out. This, some claim that reserve funds are funds for – as was said to be pre-election SDS money, I think that no one in this room believes it and these are completely tending statements. This isn't about that, it's about that we're still in the second wave and that this second wave is still going on. This increases the risk and increases the risk. The light that some epidemiologists are talking about is the vaccine. Here, too, we are the economy, the economy, including social, social life to the greatest extent by my personal conviction, dependent on the vaccine. On the other hand, by measures from PKP1 to PKP6, we are continuing to save jobs and, above all, we are ensuring that the economy does not drown, that businesses live. It is a fact, and this has already been said that this crisis is not comparable to the 2009 crisis or 2012 and 2013 crisis and so on. This crisis is sector-specific, in other words, the service sector is much more affected than other sectors, especially tourism, catering, transport. As a result, the measures are also aimed at maintaining these sectors and these activities. Never or I do not think it will be possible for these sectors to be compared very quickly with 2019, to say, look, in 2022 international tourism will be the same as it was in 2019. I don't think that's gonna happen for a long time. There will also be structural changes, which means, in other words, that the way of life will also change because of this. With regard to this budget and the national plan, let me say what I have said several times – that Slovenia has not missed anything here, and this government has not missed anything. This national plan is being prepared and should be ready by the end of the year. It is also supposed to be officially sent to the European Commission at that time. So there's nothing missing. About the debt, why we're in debt. At the moment, we are in charge of paying health care services to the greatest extent and almost exclusively for this. Because of increased health expenditure, we have deficits or deficits. I answer that we don't know why we're in debt. That's why we're in debt. And that's why every bill spent on health at the Ministry of Finance is available. The projects are also listed exactly as some of the opposition parties mentioned above. These projects are actually in the budget. Nor is it true that we do not know when we will be in debt. Exactly for each year until 2050, we have calculated how much we will have to pay the principals or interest, in particular the principals. Why did I mention 2050? Because a few weeks ago we issued a 30-year bond that we will have to repay in the amount of 1 billion in 2050. This just proves that the demand for this bond was much higher, which means that international markets trust Slovenia, they trust Slovenia, they trust the country to return this loan in 30 years. That's actually what it means. Let me mention here that some countries also have centuries-old bonds. Perhaps a little symbolic, but this suggests that international markets believe in the stability of countries and also in the stability of Slovenia. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u30	Thank you very much. After this long introduction of the Minister, and of course of all positions, we will begin with a debate which I believe that many will not like, at least to the Minister. It is difficult to sit in a chair where, in fact, all ministers to this day have more or less always had one basic and fundamental function, which is to be the key to the budget, the Ombudsman. With every single minister in all governments, there was always a cross when everyone in both the Government and the National Assembly had to convince him that there was a need to invest in people, infrastructure and make some kind of mental breakthroughs. Unfortunately, no offense, Minister, in this situation, I see no locksmith, no guardian, but I see someone who will actually open his wallet wide open. But what is most terrible — if I at least opened it wide — is not clear goals and there are no clear strategies and there are no clear final consequences of what is actually going to happen. Otherwise, I will not discuss as my colleague from New Slovenia did a year ago when he announced that we would be paying back debts in this country for another 100 years on the basis of the balance we made last year in this Chamber. Far from it. However, it will certainly be difficult to explain to the Slovenians and the Slovenes, citizens and citizens what we will spend an additional 10 billion for exactly what we will literally invest in some place, and we do not even know whether it will be concrete or asphalt or whether it will be knowledge or development. We don't know how to say this. Above all – not in the opposition, but – Minister, you cannot explain it. You keep repeating – I have been listening to you since Friday, Saturday and today – of course, the strategy is clear, the priorities are clear, but to list these priorities, I never hear. Actually, that's not what it is. But he knows how to say something else. It can say that this crisis is slightly different from those crises that we have been accustomed to since 2009 and 2012. He knows the full name, the title of this crisis, that it is a sectoral crisis. Don't mind me, Minister, but the employee who loses his job doesn't care much about whether it's sectoral or debt or whatever the other crisis is. And what's even more terrible, what I've heard on Saturday, is that you've said that it's actually only possible, part of the victim's service, which is not so terrible, because the result is what it is, that production and everything else we're going to be able to keep, and then you say, "with this money that's coming, we're going to save jobs." But how can I, Minister, trust this government, if this government has not known since the establishment of the fund 2 billion for loans, bridging loans to the economy even – or, no, it has provided money, of course, and has complicated to the extreme that only 35 million have been used to date. Let the people explain it, for God's sake, you who say it all the time – I don't mean you as a minister, but the government as a whole – that you will actually do huge things and everything in reducing bureaucratic barriers. Then make it out of this art and chocolate, which, in the end, is inconvenient, so that the economy doesn't actually think that it's going to go for any credit, because it's going to shut down before they even get it, because you've complicated it to the end. Not to mention how you've spent a long time chasing commercial banks, that you actually preferred to put it all together in bonds, long-standing bonds, instead of covering credit, cash-for-money, like they do in all European countries and where they did so, of course, and that's not the problem. In Slovenia, however, this is a problem. But the problem is, of course, because a lot of people are going to lose their jobs again. And that's mainly the profiles -- you've heard all this before, Minister -- that will be hard to hire. If another year ago we talked about that in service activities it is very difficult to get people, very difficult to get cooks, very difficult to get waiters, it is very difficult to get in short all those who perform service activities, and it is absolutely necessary for this activity to be able to perform its work, now we open up to them and create conditions to go on the road. And they will find themselves in another sector, as you like to call this crisis a sectoral crisis. They will go to the aid sector, the social transfers for which you are predicting today that they will need to be reduced. Give me, for God's sake, what kind of budget is this? You are well aware that the budget is essentially a fundamental act by which each government sets its priorities. I listened here yesterday to the Prime Minister of the Government, who, in response, boasted that this government had made changes in hundreds and hundreds of laws within five, six months, which the previous government has not actually been able to do. However, she did not say that she made so many changes only in the way that Janez Janša knows, and this is what is called a package change, with one package, with one act to make a rosada and a massacre under a number of laws, that today officials do not understand them at all. And then, of course, it is added, “the conscience of the worker is also wrong, making mistakes, it is necessary to understand, we are working quickly, effectively, but without results”. This is, of course, the result of all these changes. Indeed, this budget, which we have on the table today and which we will decide on, will be adopted because of the coalition majority that governs this National Assembly. But something else is going to happen, as is happening after every Janša government, if after Janša's government later the next government had to correct because there was unreasonable management and it was more than clear that we went to a total minus, both in 2009 and later in 2012, when we made the logic of reduction and, I will say, crazy policies of cutting and shrinking everything possible put a literal country into a bucket. And we've been doing this again for the next five, eight years, so that we can come up with a situation that we've been calling for to stabilise our finances, to enable conditions for economic growth, to come up with a situation that no government can afford, no government, that we can't get things wrong. And it would also be rude to say that you created it because you didn't. But how to react in a situation, well, of course that's another story. And this budget is more than clear that there will be no bread from this flour. Not that there's bad bread, there won't be any. That's the problem. What is very important to us all is, above all, that we are aware of what we will do with our plans. Plans. As you can see, in the beginning, this sentence I simply can never forget, John Janša said: “The money will be enough.” [[…]] Today, we know how much money will be needed — by making a living. To the Amenities and to the next generations, they have made it more clear that they will work for it and will be on their feet for some time. That's the incentive now. That, 10 billion, I mean, that's crazy numbers. I remember, we talked about Slovenia's debt of 24 billion and then 25 billion, and today I don't even hope to say what these billions of debts will be. The average citizen can't imagine it at all, but the Minister can't tell us where we're going to give 10 billion, and that's what I'm most afraid of. We have discussed many things in recent months, and we have also discussed all the procedures to relieve the congregations, and in short, we will open up a lot of money. Remember my debate at the first PKP, where you generously – and of course no one wanted to answer – devoted money for which no one could explain why and why they needed it, to pensioners and students? Today, these proposals are no longer available. Why aren't these proposals today? And because we have the same situation, we have a worse situation than we do in the spring. Why isn't that money for the pensioners for the students? Why isn't that money? As we see in the budget, that's enough money, isn't it? Because you've just been working on your mind, and I'm afraid you're working on it today. I'm afraid no, I'm not afraid of anything anymore, I'm sure you don't have any projects, you don't know what you want, but you're making scary reservations. [[…]] I can already see the second year, if you will, of course, still the minister, the rebalancing of what you will fix. Because what we are looking at today will not make sense, it will not survive any wise explanation at all. And if we all come together to this point, to this rebalancing, I will remind you of that and I will also remind you that you have been completely silent. And while you talk a lot, you don't give any answers, no answers. You're repeating yourself like a broken record. I recall the debate you had on a committee where you said vehemently when you were still an opposition member: "The opposition is to overthrow this government." Only now you are no longer the opposition, now you are the minister, now you are the key to this budget, the guardian of this budget. On behalf of the citizens, I ask you, tell me exactly where the debts of 10 billion will go — not those of the 8 billion that will go towards debt closure — of the 18 billion new commitments you are forecasting in the budget. 10 billion, tell me systematically that we will know Members and Members where this money will go. So we can write this down from your mouth on our paper and see in the rebalancing next year what you've done with these 10 billion in the coming years. A few billion will be spent by then. And the other thing that's even more important today is that I'm asking you, given that the money will be enough, I hope you won't close the budget for a month in June, because then I don't know why we're taking the budget at all. It's always a great thing to brag about. I also remember the debates when we urgently had to change the constitution and then adopt a law on the fiscal world, and now we have the devil in detail. Fiscal correctness no longer applies to you, because we all know how much and what debates we had at the time, and what all of a nuisance was at the time of the adoption of the budget for the Fiscal Council, but now we simply have enough. I am really afraid of just one thing: who will have to tear up after you and correct what will sometimes get stuck and what will be irreversible, irreversible for a good part of the job? Indeed, it is the structure of employed people who will lose jobs in service activities. With all due respect, with all due respect to all other low-skilled employees, it will be difficult to reclassify them and bring them into other industries, some other spheres, so that we can keep jobs for them. Because these jobs will be the only ones that will, of course, also bring money into the budget, which you will now see, as you can see, is still lacking. I say, of course, that your forecasts at tax tides will be significantly lower in the future than you predict. I also remember your words, from the SDS party, about how VAT should be reduced. Now you have finally admitted that you will not change VAT. How many shoutings and dredgings have been made by the Finance Committees on the Public Finance Commissions, where you kept shouting that the VAT is too high and that it should be reduced. Where are your actions now? This is the devil — when you get to power, but it's all over. But of course you predict that somewhere else you will reduce certain taxes, taxes, taxes, Boggsigave anything but VAT you will not. The fact that you have renounced the real estate tax is bad, not because I am a proponent that people should be taxed far away from it, but because, sooner or later, it will be necessary to make a cesarean cut and regulate tax policy in the real estate sector, as all democratic countries, regulated countries, and have a key and formula that simply does not change it and becomes a stable and safe source even for times when we are doing bad. Although I am not a proponent of the introduction of taxation when everyone is doing badly. That's the only plus I count on you. But I am certainly an advocate that this issue needs to be settled. And last but not least, to regulate that law, which would also help this budget, which you have self-absorbed and literally ripped apart by the Constitutional Court, which, of course, led to the collapse of the real estate tax law. I'm talking about the valuation law, it was torn apart, and it was prepared in your government. The real estate law, however, was the law of Alenka Bratušek and, as a result, had to fall because it did not have a real basis in the previous marriage. That's a bunch of, I'll say, some certain questions that need to be repeated over and over again, if not for history. Because there will be a bill of accounting for who is responsible for the fact that this country is in debt to unconsciousness. Sooner or later you'll be in the opposition again. Thank you so much for taking a nice picture of me, buddy. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I mean, amazingly yes, yes, yes, of course, of course. [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] We've already agreed in this national council that we're not going to take pictures of food, well, please. Colleague Eva Irgle, put your phone down at least then and don't give me the feeling that I have a feeling that you're taking pictures everywhere right now. In short, what's for me [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Are you going to hurry, President?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u31	I ask you kindly, Madam Member, that we respect the rules of procedure and that we do not disturb the speaker when he speaks. Thank you very much. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Vice President.Sometimes the order should be made for women. Whatever. Of course, I must say that I do not support such a budget. I will support any measure taken by this government that will go in a development direction and that will also go in a direction that will ensure the preservation of jobs. I don't see this in this budget, and not in the last few acts, in the last few months. I can't see, but I can see the horrified letters, the phone calls of independent entrepreneurs, economists and, of course, so-called small people you've been referring to for years and years. Every night, when we open the screens, we can only see that people are going to be mass-locked. The money that you gave as aid in the spring is now being demanded from certain companies even back. What kind of measure was it, actually, to share a lot of money and then collect it back? These are the questions that people are interested in in this budget as well. I'll continue the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Andre Zabret has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! Much has already been said about the budget today, we are talking about the budget for 2021. Of course, we are talking about a very important document, but given that there are different predictions of Death today and that the document was prepared at a time when we were not yet in the second lockdown in which we are now, things are becoming more and more worrying. Above all, it is because the government is acting in harmony with what we have heard today, and it is without any ideas. The Government shall accompany the preparation of documents with the fact that the budget is prepared in times of uncertain macroeconomic conditions and that there are exceptional circumstances. The fiscal world and the EU have given a green light that a temporary derogation from fiscal rules is allowed for 2021, which means at home that we can spend more than we create. This is true, but this is only true for the expenditure associated with the covida-19 epidemic and is due to exceptional circumstances. This does not mean that the government can, at the head of the ruling SDS party, do whatever it wants with public finances and act as if it does not concern everyone else. Planning for the future is one of the activities that have led to a significant leap in our development in the long past. People, on behalf of the better tomorrow, are able to give up pleasures in the present, whether it's cutting wood for winter or raising money for a new investment in the company. Each of us has already faced a dilemma as to how to finance a larger purchase, will decide to immediately save and buy later, or will buy the matter today and save money for the loan in the future. For personal purchases, the decision is entirely ours; for investments in an enterprise, it is necessary to deposit the accounts with the owner, and for public consumption, it appears that no one needs to be accounted for. This is how the current government behaves when public finances are dealt with in a non-economic, irresponsible and non-transparent manner. This is not only my opinion, but also the fiscal world has pointed out practically from the very balance forward. The fiscal world is a professional body and I believe that all its warnings must be taken very seriously and responsible. In its opinion, the Fiscal Council, already in March, when it found that the legal conditions for the application of exceptional circumstances were met, which means that we could deviate from the fiscal rule, pointed out that it would focus its assessment of the budgetary documents on planned public financial movements without taking into account the effects of covid-19 measures. The analysis of the projected budgetary developments thus shows that the deficit of the state budget will increase further from €1.3 billion in 2020 to €2 billion or around €700 million without taking these measures into account in 2021. One of the reasons for the increase in expenditure of 17.4% is the projected investment costs, which I welcome of course. But I'm here to see what kind of investments this is about. In fact, if we want all of these investments, which you have already explained today, to be realised in 2021, this means that they must be prepared today. Indeed, we know how long it takes for a given project to be able to start, from the calls themselves to the preparation of the documentation and so on. In the light of past experience with public investment planning, I believe that the government is too optimistic. Above all, if the budget were transparent, perhaps we could be a little less concerned if we could see what kind of investments are actually involved. However, what is most worrying about budget 2021 is that it is also high, together with more than 10% of other non-epidemic revenues, and among them are a large part of labour costs and expenditure on goods and services. Such growth poses a risk to the medium-term stability of public finances, which the Fiscal Council points out. In its consideration of the budget at the Saturday session of the Committee on Finance, the Minister of Finance said: "The revenue of the state budget is expected to normalise at EUR 10.7 billion in 2021. We are counting on an increase in tax revenues and the use of cohesion funds and the Recovery and Resistance Fund. Slovenia will only be able to receive the revenue from this title on the basis of approved projects that will be carried out in accordance with established milestones." End of story. From this I am particularly pleased that the Minister acknowledged the importance of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which the Government sent to Brussels as a draft, but which it practically tore apart: too large, too superficial, and the value of the projects to substantially exceed the amount available to Slovenia. That's how your plan was evaluated. The Minister says that this was not a draft but was only a working material that was dealt with at the professional level between the staff of the European Commission and the staff of the competent ministry. However, I believe – even from all media and everywhere – that it was a draft and that it was actually a matter of avoiding responsibility. And that the Government will deal with this material and send it to the European Commission in accordance with the timetable, as the minister says – it will probably be in line with the standards that are actually necessary for this, but I don't know if it is. Indeed, projects already included in the plan that will not be able to be financed from the RRF fund. In addition, the President of the Government is deceiving that we will be able to cover the deficit, or minus, in the state treasury, which you will only produce for 2020 for 4.2 billion, not to say what the reductions will be in 2021 and 2022 and how much this government will owe us in the next three years. We have heard more than once today, for 18.2 billion in three years, but if we subtract debt repayment, an additional EUR 10.2 billion will come in. It is hard to imagine – if we were in your skin right now and our government was in charge of such enormous billions, I can’t imagine what you would do. In fact, in the previous government, when we had a surplus of the budget or a budget rebalancing, you have submitted to the SDS and NSI parties a constitutional assessment of the surplus, which has been found to be inconsistent with the Constitution, and we have already heard statements today, as the current Head of the NSI Group, that there has been a surplus of the budget for constitutional gambling, social gambling and moral gambling, and that we will repay the debt for another 100 years. I really can't imagine what it would be like to be so indebted to us, and in addition to these numbers, which now show how much this government will owe us in the next three years, we can also ask how much time this debt will be repaid. And if I keep going. The deficit in the budget, which the Prime Minister said we could recover from EU funds, will not be covered by EU funds, i.e. the criteria for obtaining EU funds are very strict. It would therefore be appropriate to hold a public debate on the money of citizens and citizens of Slovenia and to determine what projects make sense for Slovenia. We know what the priorities are: a supportive environment for businesses, a digital Slovenia, a sustainable and green transition, a knowledge-based society, tourism and culture. Above all, the use of these funds, which are most recoverable, is in the form of loans, i.e. of 5.7 billion is irreversible only 1.6 billion. The conditions for the use of these funds, European funds, are, in particular, reforms, labour market reforms, long-term care, the health system, the financial and fiscal system and the reduction of administrative barriers. I'm asking you, Minister, do you have these reforms for the people, or do you think about it? In fact, it looks like you're more involved with everything else than that, from the fact that you're human beings to the separation of people, you're writing in the laws about how people would be punished, like the family that ate croissants in the open and got punished for eating croissants without a mask. And the only thing you're obviously interested in about reforms is the debirocratisation that is being prepared by a famous government group with Mr Simic at the helm. But this reform alone will not be enough. Furthermore, it is already known that many of these measures, which have been presented, are not meaningful and justified. I am concerned that this government is not aware or is taking too lightly, “yes, we will somehow”. This is an extremely important document, which is the basis for drawing on EU funds, and it depends to a large extent on how much debt will really need to be committed in the coming years. And above all, how this will affect our society in an economic and social sense. That is why I call on this government and you, Minister, to be smart and to include in the Recovery and Resistance Plan projects that will bring multiplicity in the coming years and help us recover more quickly, which will also bring economic growth. Unfortunately, we don't know anything about this plan because it's of an internal nature. That's what the government says. At some point, of course, we agree that the current resolution of the crisis with a series of non-standard measures and state interventionism is certainly necessary, it is right to help people and also the economy. The PKPs are also needed, but if the government listens to the well-intentioned proposals and complements that we have been investing all the time since the first CAP in the opposition, I am convinced that some CAP could be less. But every time we get a new PKP on the table, we see that it actually works for you to have so many because you're pushing a lot of other things that aren't related to covid. Even now, at the PKP6, which is waiting for us to deal with it, you have not failed yourself. You have proposed stricter penalties for protestors, the equalization of entry conditions between students of professional and general proms, the political party assembly and so on. In addition, we have heard that there has been no coordination with the ESF, which once again means that there will be a lot of shortcomings and that certain target groups or vulnerable groups will be forgotten again. Once again, I repeat that we do not have a problem with the debt, which must be, and I reiterate, thoughtfully and in no way excessively. But we stress, above all, that the money we owe ourselves to needs to be used usefully and invested in projects that will in the future bring us a multiplier effect and enable us to grow economically. Also in terms of debt, the Fiscal Council has already warned about the rebalancing, and this is how it warns now, I quote: “The fiscal world calls on the government to be careful about additional debt, as the experience of the past significant debt increase in the period 2009 to 2013 shows that debt reduction is difficult.” End of quote. Therefore, in the LMŠ you are also constantly reminded of four key issues: soundness of mind, responsibility, efficiency and transparency. I don't know if you want to hear it, or maybe you don't. At the moment, it shows that measures under the CAP are not only as effective as the Government wants to explain. If the liquidity measure were as effective as the Minister of Finance says it would probably not change the conditions for acquisition in the CAP6. And if so far the liquidity of the economy has been good, I fear that it will not be so in the near future. This is how the government behaves, today we open something, and tomorrow we close it again, it won't be long. Also unemployment and corporate bankruptcy. Every day we listen to people say they can't do it anymore and they'll close. And it now appears that solidarity with employees, as it was in the first wave, is no longer as intense. In fact, businesses have run out of stock, measures are very unpredictable, they change from hour to hour, and in such a volatile environment it is difficult to function. And let me repeat that this is why it's important, for what and for how much we owe ourselves, where we're going to give this money. Research, development, investment should be supported, leading to greater productivity and competitiveness. That way we'll all have some of it. 2020 is the year when it went and it's still going very badly. But if we don't want the consequences of this, I can say that a crazy year is long ahead of us, we must also devote some of our attention to the future planning that we want when we win this fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Mr. Secretary, I'm glad you're with us! And hello to everyone else! Yesterday — at least some of you who were present, you remember — something unusual happened in this hall. Your Prime Minister, I say this to yours, on the right, thanked the opposition member, me, for very clearly calling on all citizens and citizens, to stick to the measures to prevent and control the epidemic, because only together can we overcome the epidemic. I was even asked what it is now that the Prime Minister of the Government thanked some member of the left-hand side, but I think it's something normal. This is some normal gesture, and if these gestures were a little more, maybe life in this country would be a little more friendly. That's why I want to start a positive one myself. Mr Minister, the direction of the budget, that is to say in 2021 and later in 2022 with a budget hole, in order to help people, the economy, institutions and society, is correct. That's right. If we went this direction in 2007, 2006, 2008, it would be even easier to live in our Slovenia. Well, the direction is right, and I welcome it. At the same time, it is only necessary to say, because of our citizens and citizens, that the hole that is being created is not a hole that will be settled somewhere from Mars or elsewhere, and we, as citizens and citizens, will have to settle this hole ourselves. I hope that then there will be no wish to settle: let's go to public education, public health and anything like that. But for the sake of knowledge, more added value, faster development, and then we will be able to solve the budget hole that we are now creating. So, the direction is that I welcome her. Yesterday, I remember very much how your president, as well as many of you who are ruling, often – even in the last few weeks when numbers about the dead are impossible; every death we regret, indeed are much too high – began to speak louder, let's do it, let's do it together. Let's be together and win. Let's work together at least during the epidemic. I fully agree with that, and I've been defending it all along. But you know, the calls that are followed by acts are just piracy. Calling on us who are on this side and we are in opposition and have no tools in our hands, let us work together, and not then listen to our proposals, it is simply not fair. That's why I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary, because I really expect you now, especially since your President made it so clear yesterday, let's work together and we'll work together. Look at the budget now ahead of us. In order to make some important things easier for us – and for us because we think they are important for the citizens – we have made 15 recommendations, amendments and 35 more with the other opposition parties. So we have 50 amendments on the table. Perhaps you, Mr Minister – because I really need your help here, and people with disabilities in Slovenia need your help, even those who are unemployed, and these are 12 thousand 500. Look, a few days ago, in the opposition, we tabled an amendment to the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. This is the law that came about because a small group of people went into professional rehabilitation because of a mistake in marriage, which was not quickly determined because it was embarrassing to tell people, was severely deprived. We also have cases in Slovenia that people who are in employment rehabilitation work up to eight hours a day do not get paid more than 200 or 300 euros but work and are disabled. This was also pointed out by the Ombudsman. Interestingly, when I asked the competent minister of John the King about this, he also said: “Yes, it is indeed a mistake when we change the law next time, which we do not plan, we will correct.” And that's why we filed this marriage alone in the opposition last week. But it's a problem, Mr. Secretary. When we tabled the law, we got it back, because this law means about EUR 5 million more burden on the state budget. And we as the opposition do not have this right to invest for the following year, and we had to write the date of entry into force for 2022. But if you agree tomorrow when we vote, with the amendment that the disabled – 12 thousand 500 of them are unemployed, about 2,000 of them go to work rehabilitation each year – we will allow easier employment rehabilitation, and we will be able to do so with your help so that it will be in force next year. That's, like, one of those requests. It is good of you to write this down, Madam Member, because we are now dependent on you in the opposition. One of these requests, now in practice, show that you are serious about cooperation. Next thing. For over a year, a year and a half, I've been fighting for, say, greater investment in health care. It is, of course, a Maribor clinical centre, and it is also a Ljubljana one that needs new investments, as well as for some others. Unfortunately, these investments are not available again in the budget for 2021. Although when we talked about the 2020 balance, at least I understood the Secretary of State for Health as much as I did: that they would do their best. Therefore, as the opposition, as individual opposition parties for 2021, we are proposing amendments to help the Slovenian health system with at least intervention investments, because now, the respected minister, so much likes the high representatives of the government to walk day after day, commend them “how good you are, health workers, doctors, nurses and others, but we must show them this through concrete actions. In this area, too, I ask you, Minister-in-Charge, a well-respected coalition, to show in practice how you understand cooperation. You can't do anything else than accept any of our proposals – just allow me to fix my mask a little bit, thank you – when we look back, you will find that whoever was in the government, at least in the past, was used to at least some of the opposition's proposals being accepted. At least some of the conversations were held all the time, and at this point no such conversations are taking place. Well, we should. Because we're fighting covid-19 together. More of these conversations and more of them should be heard. That is why I call on you, Minister-respected coalition, when we talk about our 50 amendments and even more, not to look through the eyeglasses of the opposition – coalition, left – right, such and different political colors, but through the glasses of the hands offered, cooperation that needs to be shown in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Ms Monika Gregorčič is next to prepare for the debate Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. At the beginning of its debate, I would only highlight this financial part or the figures of the proposed budget for 2021. Indeed, Umar predicts 5.1% of GDP growth, and on these assumptions this budget or budget rebalancing for 2021 is also made. Predicted or incalculated has a deficit of 5.6% of GDP, nominally amounting to 2.75 billion euros. And our country's total debt will then rise or, given the previous year's decline by a few percentage points, the total debt will be so little below 81% of the total GDP. These are the starting points, the basis of which was based on the forecast of Umar. However, Umar is also at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, and his Director has pointed out, of course, what we are already aware of very strongly today — that despite the calculated caution and great conservatism of this autumn forecast this second wave, the intensity of the second wave of the epidemic has somehow surprised us. Of course, it was not only Slovenia’s surprise, it would be really unfair for someone to claim such a thing, for Europe as a whole to be in the midst of the unexpected intensity of this second wave of the epidemic. That is why the future is still more uncertain and, in my opinion, even though we are adopting today a budget that will enter into force or start to be used in a few months, it is not even a question of whether this budget will be the subject of a rebalancing, but only when it will be. That's just some assumption I'm making about the current situation. It has also been said that, for this purpose, the purpose of allowing for higher indebtedness is also a relaxed fiscal rule based on the finding of exceptional, exceptional circumstances. However, our country is not the only country that has deviated from its own national fiscal rule. This has only followed the direction of the European Union or the European Commission, which has stepped down or released Stability and Growth Pacts at EU level. I see a very positive role played by the European Union in this response to the health crisis or the resulting economic crisis, especially when compared with the response from 10 years ago when we were hit by a severe, huge financial crisis. Despite one first shock at EU level, we are reminded of the truly impossible situation and the lack of protective equipment, the uncoordinated responses of individual Member States by closing individual borders, but then in the coming months the European Union was able to realise that a key coordinated response to this crisis, which was caused by the epidemic, is crucial. So some kind of external shock. As far as the government's own plan is concerned, there has also been a great deal of talk today about a document that has been or is supposed to have been sent to Brussels that it was inadequate to have been rejected. I do not know why, the Minister is very precise and weighed, I think, twice or three times, in previous meetings of the Committee on Finance, he reasoned that it was a working document, an internal correspondence between the staff of the Ministry and the European Commission or the cabinet of the European Commissioner. So I don't know why it's repeated and repeated here, because even if you repeat it a hundred times, it can't become a lie, it can't become the truth. The fact is that there are some outflows of various correspondences or internal documents, either on the part of our government or on the staff of the European Commission, but we know that some of our citizens with different political or media connections are also employed in the European Commission. Nevertheless, I would appeal to everything, be aware that you are doing harm to your own country, be more receptive to it, and not every political activism is also whistleblower. As regards the very orientation of the budget for 2021. I'm sure it's developmental. Priority is health, infrastructure, investment, everything with the aim and purpose of achieving economic recovery. Of course, we can or must use all these situations to urgently restructure our economy, in order to increase competitiveness, to adapt to the new situation, because I am confident that the so-called postcovid economic or social situation will not be the same as it has been so far, that the economy will operate differently. Nevertheless, demand and purchasing habits will change, supply chains will decrease, state protectionism can be more and less globalisation, or it can be reduced in at least those early periods after the epidemic. All of this must be used to modernise our economy or our technologies in the direction of digitisation. Then we must not forget about ecological awareness, de-de-barcation and, of course, an increase in innovation in order to raise added value. Something has already been said about the impact of specific sectors in this crisis, particularly those linked to tourism, trade, hospitality. I would put it all together here on a slightly broader denominator, a special emphasis or a little economy needs attention. These are all those small entrepreneurs, espouses, family companies that have worked their entire lives, and now, when they are prevented from doing business, or because of all these circumstances and fewer demands, all of them are very concerned about their future. They are concerned for their employees, likely to have to forgive, eventually their survival, or the survival of whole families can be at stake. I believe that these are the great personal hardships that I hope they will be able to overcome, and they need our help or assistance from the measures that this government is preparing. I would like these measures to be targeted so purposefully, even in the following anti-korona packages, that they will also enable the survival of the small economy, entrepreneurs who today – those who can still work – do not work to create what kind of profits and are class enemies of colleagues from the Left, but work to minimize their loss. It's just very sad. Another segment I would like to highlight in particular for 2021, our foreign policy or our Presidency to the Council of the European Union. To this end, the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is substantially increased. I welcome this, but we know that in addition to the Presidency project, we will strengthen or return to certain markets with diplomatic and consular representations. I regret that in the years of the financial crisis 10 years ago, there was a breakdown of our embassies, including in Europe, even in countries that could be a very important economic and political partner of our country, for example in Scandinavia. In doing so, it must be borne in mind that the size order of one medium-sized embassy represents an annual cost of about half a million euros, and the indirect and direct effects that such an embassy can bring to the country's well-being are measured in multiples. So I welcome this intention after the embassy has been reopened in some locations. This will be particularly important from the point of view of our Presidency, which will be a central project next year, and this will be a major organisational, human resources and logistical resource. Especially because today it is not known whether it can be carried out live or whether it will be a major virtual event. If the epidemiological situation does not allow it to be carried out live, it will certainly – yes, some savings will be made on funds, but on the other hand will be a major diplomatic flaw. Diplomacy is one of those activities that have suffered great damage due to the current situation, there are no informal discussions, exchanges of opinions, information, personal contacts. After all, this will also be a waste for our economy. This is a part of high-level congress tourism that could help our economy recover faster, or at least to ease the losses in tourism. I will conclude by thinking that after the epidemic, after my assessment, nothing will ever be the same as it was, not in the economy or in society at all. Obviously, some individuals or social groups are a little more adaptable, having difficulty coping with it. It may also result in some resistance or opposition to measures or opposition to certain restrictions. Because it is much easier to deny some need for change and to want everything to stay the way it was. Unfortunately, in our country, this also reflects an impatient desire for a new government to be established, or I will call it a new government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr. Dr. McKinley. Franz Duck has the next word, Mr Jani Prednik is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Since I'm obviously not as smart as the others, this morning I listened to the last chapter of a very interesting book, which I also recommend to the minister, if he hasn't read it, is quite extensive, it has 656 pages, its address could be translated into Slovenian as the Cost of Peace or the Price of Peace, wrote by Zachary Carter, and is considered the best monograph of Keynes and Keynesianism, even after Keynes died after World War II, almost to this day. What is the key point of Keynes? The fact that what I call money, money and the market is about politics, not some invisible hand of the market, about which my associate, Breznik of the SDS, would vulgarly speak friedman in a recent way. Why did I say I wasn't as smart as the others? What and how it will be, we will find out there in the fall next year if we behave more responsibly than the government. Janša said yesterday, we don't do statistics. If we were to take some measures at the end of August, and even at the beginning of October, about 10, 12 days earlier, epidemiologists could still monitor what is happening to us with the pandemic. If we behave very responsibly, no matter which government will or will not be around New Year's holiday, the matter will be calmed down somewhere by March, April, so we will see little of it with the economy. Some of the first serious preliminary evaluations will be ahead of schedule if it is possible to go to them, and in fact we will see in autumn 2021 what time it is. From what has been said today, it also follows that our grandson, who will be three months old in 10 days' time, and also Bakot's granddaughter, who is older than a 30-year-old, will be able to repay these debts that we now have here. I don't agree, either, not because Dejan told me who jumped me a little in Maribor today, but because you're now ruling. In Slovenian it's called executive power. We've got this big problem of preoccupation. The Constitution also states that the Government is responsible to the National Assembly. Nor did I see any document or legal basis in Slovenia that would say that we are members of the opposition something other than members of the coalition, we are all equally responsible and co-responsible. And then, a colleague who was in front of me might not be what you rightly call a leak of documents, and I also partially agree with you if we worked together on these documents. I'm going to be a little indiscreet, and yesterday I met a former member of the Blacklist, and he said, "Hey, buddy, after the hook, it won't be a national plan or program." He's right about that, you know. And I have been here for the seventh year to finally get these European things to work more seriously and responsibly together, let's say, as Estonians can do, who are also much better at dealing with the epidemic. Because, as far as I've been wondering in Brussels, the story goes like this, it's already being said seriously in the corridors: the country that has too many b's, c's, will receive mandatory technical assistance. I don't want another Shekely or a gentleman of the same rank, a middle-class Brussels bureaucrat, to tell us how to develop. This epidemic, which has unfortunately escaped the pandemic, has shown the structural problems of the Slovenian economy, which has not been very developmentally oriented in the last dozen or more years. And that's some big problem. But you know that we will repeat here as parrots, "yes, we must be green, but we must digitise ourselves, and we must debirocratise ourselves" – debirocratisation in practice means more laws, not less laws. I did my doctorate on, if you want, ICT deregulation, you could go watch Bella get hit in America on baby-bell. We must go through the national plan if we are to express ourselves in such a way that we will all understand the niche economies. If we are to get to the niche economies, we must deal with what the current President of the European Commission has pointed out in an interview yesterday – social dialogue. A social dialogue that this government somehow explicitly rejects. Perhaps this is appropriate to someone at the Chamber of Commerce, although it is not aware that we are digging a cave with this developmental device and that perhaps within 30 years these credits will not be as favourable as the current Minister of Finance says they are. These are some things that we should think about that we should talk about. We're still too into some kind of concrete paradigm. You know, concrete isn't necessarily a development, concrete can only be a wall where you kill yourself in development, and if it's not right, you'll soon have too high amortization costs. Remember those Trojan tunnels, when someone was selling pumpkins, that's what happens, that they need to be repaired immediately in two, three years. These are some of the things that I have been doing in our bewildered reflections — the seventh year is arduous, and I have a little overdoing in the National Assembly. And the government is acting more aggressively. Yesterday I accidentally listened to a psychotherapist, and it seems to me that Melita Kuhar, who said that aggression has two sources – fear of ignorance. And there are tough times, I admit it, but you know, having some really great bridge over Soča on the Twitter account, and at the same time acting, as the Prime Minister of the Government knew yesterday – and I will not say that there are no such ones on this side of the street, I say, everyone has their own Kordiša, let Micah forgive me, but – somehow we will not come any further. After all, people don't pay us to hang out all day on some Twitters like some, but you bark at each other there, I can't say anything else. That I won't be too long in this introduction. Here I have a government side: the government approved the state budget proposal, blah blah, took into account Umarje's autumn forecast. Then I go to look at the budget cut and it decreases on the items of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, it decreases on the lines of Umarje – what, but then we watch through the thumb, where do we rebalance the budget? Then the money merchants will come to pick up something. It's also going to go down on the Owl item. [[…]] I mean, good morning. You know, some key tools, key country attributes, some key tool box that the country needs to have, we're going to be reducing items here. If I joke a little bit, SDS, these three million, here behind me SNS, this more esdesian part of the SMC of this budget should not even be supported if we were strict to ourselves, because it is increasing, otherwise insignificant, in the asylum policy line. If any other government had suggested it, there would be a mag. Branko Grimes was already jumping up and down. But no, now that you're here, it's okay. So much for some duplicity. Also, you know, it's not okay to leave an item there at the Ministry of Finance, it's just a covid item, and then we're going to kind of, I don't know, give it a little bit, whether we're going to give Zdravka now to buy Sava hotels or not, and so on and so on, not caricating. It's actually extremely unserious. Of course, these items, as Dejan mentioned earlier, are extremely unrealistic about some of the development priorities. Here's the cover of Dinner: there's no money for now. In these opposition proposals, I have, of course, taken care of what I have been dealing with for the last two years at most, the area of a health infrastructure. And of course, here are the amendments that we need if someone once decided that we would have a university clinical center in Maribor and also a medical faculty that can't work without an appropriate UKC and vice versa, that we probably also deserve health care in the Styrian capital and the surrounding area. After all, you can fall together at pre-election meetings and you'll have to go there and see what the situation is, but I'm not just a local patriot. And that the condition on the gastro in Ljubljana I mean, it's for the museum, that building developing medicine, not for the gastro. These are some items, you know, and a class enemy, if I paraphrase a colleague in front of me, the biggest one, is political stupidity. Perhaps if, I don't know, the gentleman you visited, a colleague who was the Secretary of State for Security was really working with security, members of the coalition would be talking to support these amendments, which I have prepared on behalf of the opposition and also in agreement with the other opposition Maribor MEPs and MPs. It's basically a matter of priorities and some seriousness. I can call that a leaking document, or if you want, the draft of the national plan is bad. And I don't blame this on the current government constellation, it's bad because, unlike what kind of balts, we don't deal seriously with European policies. We still act almost as if we are not a member of the EU. Except there's gonna be a little bit of a commitment to the second half of next year. That's not the point. You know, I would like one quality national plan that would go beyond these commonplaces, where we would have a clear picture of how serious the multipliers would be. I would like a working Owl, which also protects the Slovenian economy. I accidentally went this weekend to see what the composition of the first key German intelligence officers was like. Let's take a look at it in this government as well as whoever's gonna make up the next government. With all due respect to a lawyer, you don't just fall in. And that Mr Bruno definitely wouldn't have sent something from his cell phone to Merkel and wouldn't have published it like that. After 30 years of the country, to make it easier for grandchildren and grandchildren to pay their debts in 30 years, we have to make a lot more serious wars. And this seriousness must also be seen in the budget, which, as I always say, is a social contract expressed in the universal equivalent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik is next, Mr Jure Ferrjan is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u42	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, I should respond in some way to one of the coalition MPs who said in the debate that the country had been surprised by the second wave of the epidemic. Look, the second wave of the epidemic was announced by the coalition MPs and the government at the beginning of the summer. And now to find excuses for this second wave, or to surprise you, is the least that is, this is a mockery, not from us in the opposition, it is basically a mockery of citizens and citizens. [[…]] But I kind of understand that because you're looking for excuses why you came into this other wave completely unprepared, which, of course, also appears through numbers. In his discussion, Comrade Trček said that the coalition and opposition Members are equal or should be equal. I have the feeling that the opposition Members are to blame for this second wave, at least after the communication of the Government and the coalition Members from day to day, this is clearly clear. However, it must be made clear that the coalition has 38 votes and 39 votes in this National Assembly. John Janša has a favourable majority in this national assembly. They can bring legislation through parliament whenever they want. And looking for a culprit in the opposition is not only a diversion, but a simple, we can say, a lie. Now let me go to this budget. For both budgets, for 2021 and for 2022, although we now have 2021, the government is showing in some way a similar direction, as it indicated right after the takeover of power, the government has decided to spend a lot of money on the fight against the epidemic. Here I can say that I agree with this way. Because it's only the decisive reaction of the country that can mitigate the consequences of the epidemic we're facing. But there's something else that needs to be said here. This money you spend on a variety of measures is the money of all of us, citizens and citizens. I know that the government communicates in a way, "we gave, we gave". You didn't give anything. Neither SMC nor SDS nor Desus or Nova Slovenija, nor the Social Democrats, have given us anything. We all do. That's our total money. And the hole in the budget or budgets in the coming years will be repaid by all the older generations, the middle generation, the younger generation and also our children, grandchildren and grandchildren. But once again, you've decided to spend, and I think you've made the right decision in the given situation. More questionable is the transparency and effectiveness of this spending and the measures you are taking. With the budget for 2021, as well as for 2022, but this comes at the next point, I am concerned about long-term sustainability, who, how and until when will we repay this debt, which will, of course, be created by this increased spending, and how much fiscal space does the Government intend to leave for the coming years? As we say, we are concerned about transparency. We are also concerned about the effectiveness of the measures taken. We have to ask ourselves if we're even financing the right things. Of course, the outbreak six months ago or three quarters of a year ago was something new. I agree with that. It was also a new situation for your right-wing government when you took power. Now, I'm not going to let you blame yourself on a former power that wasn't guilty of anything, but okay, it was a new phenomenon. But I resent the government in this place that now after six months, after seven, eight months of a prolonged outbreak on the second wave, as I said, you've come completely unprepared. That's what I resent the government. Of course, the focus and focus of these measures is also questionable, but we are likely to assess all of this in the coming months. In its opinion, the Fiscal Council has clearly pointed out that, on a number of occasions, it also commends itself for the fact that the temporary derogation from the fiscal rule due to the epidemic is permissible. We agree, but then forget to continue that in this same report, the Fiscal Council does not conclude its opinion with this, but continues to make it clear that crisis items must be linked to the resolution of the crisis so that the temporary derogation from the rules should not further exacerbate the structural balance. The Fiscal Council also warns that the budget is set in a opaque manner and that many items further hamper transparency, that it is not possible to confirm that money will really be spent on what you are spending it for, and in addition, the Fiscal Council warns that large sums earmarked for investments will not be able to absorb the economy, that problems can arise in the form of overheating the economy, inflation and additional structural unemployment. We do not warn the Social Democrats about this, the fiscal world warns. At the time of the adoption of the fiscal rule, then Social Democrat President Dejan Židan explained in one sentence why we support him in the SD and then we supported him. He said, quote: “We do not have the right to live on the hope of future generations.” But we're afraid the government is doing exactly that today. The costs, whether justified or not, are simply translated into future generations. In the Fiscal Council's opinion, it is also important to understand what we can hear from Europe today: Europe points out that Slovenia's draft recovery and resilience plans are too scattered and without real focus. In fact, Europe warns as we warn the Social Democrats about all the documents we or you have adopted in the last six months. The Social Democrats, as well as the LMŠ party, the Left and the rest of the opposition, have, of course, prepared amendments, as we always do. I'm not pretending that any of the amendments we tabled would be accepted. That's what I've been taught the past six months. With no PKP, you have accepted no amendment of the opposition, no amendment of the opposition, on Friday and Saturday, no amendment of the opposition, so I am not optimistic about the coalition's vote in budgets 2021 and 2022, and these amendments are not unreasonable, they are not excessively high, we have only a few requests or requests. In this constellation of government, coalitions and opposition, we have nothing left but to ask you to accept any addition to the documents. I am sure that if you had listened to the opposition and opposition parties over the past six months when they accepted the PKP 1, 2, 3, 4 and accepted any amendments, you would have been more resolved, but you went as a roller-skate, hit everything. That is why I say that I am not optimistic in accepting these amendments or in voting on them. You might surprise me. Some of the amendments are, I'll say, vital. However, it is not necessary to support our amendments, you still have the opportunity to make these amendments, which we have tabled by the opposition parties, simply invest yourself, you can also make a pear in this respect and say, yes, we have tabled and we have accepted. There is no need for us to accept or vote for them. But, come on, take this into your hands, check it out, agree also within the government, agree ministers among yourselves, agree with the finance minister, and put one of these amendments to the vote on Wednesday or Thursday, whenever it is accepted. I cannot pass the facts – Minister, when you were still in opposition, as an opposition MP you came to Parliament with laws such as lower VAT, now none of this. You organized round tables after Slovenia, how you have solutions for the so-called double taxation of migrant workers. I'm just sensitive to it because I come from Koroška and we have a lot of these workers who are migrating to Austria. At that time, when I was also a coalition MP, all the solutions on the table, now these solutions have somehow been exhausted. And I want to know what it's like. But you said yourself to conclude that the budget is very investment-oriented. I hope that it is true and that this will also prove to be true in practice, because in the past, in the government of Borut Pahor, one major mistake has been made in my opinion, and this is that all major investment projects have been halted in the time of the crisis until then. It was Pahor's government's mistake, that's what my party's president says. And the greatness of politicians is also that they acknowledge and learn from past mistakes. I hope you won't stop the investment, because that's all it can keep part of the economy on its feet. And I hope that your investment budget forecasts will come true and that we will go through this crisis as little as possible. I wish you, in this respect, a well-respected coalition and government, and good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have a replica first. Mrs. Gregorchich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Vice President. Just a few phrases from my predecessor would like to get involved or explain myself because he obviously misunderstood me. I, however, allow the possibility that I, too, have expressed myself in a vague manner in my debate. With regard to the second wave of the epidemic, I would like to stress my claim that the intensity of the second wave has surprised both our country and all other European countries. Indeed, the whole of Europe today is red, that is a fact. Slovenia is not a lonely island, so it was not possible to avoid it. The intensity is the one that surprised all of us. But as for your guilt, I certainly don't think you or the opposition are responsible for the second wave of the epidemic, by no means. But I think you have one part of the responsibility in the opposition that you haven't helped to raise public awareness. The campaign, for example, for a school without masks, did not help people take the situation seriously. And somehow you've warned or argued all the time that this government is taking too quickly too restrictive measures that interfere with freedoms, restrict human rights, that these are totalitarian methods, and today you say that these measures have been introduced too late. So I see in this inappropriate response your part of the responsibility, the opposition, that it did not contribute to helping people to realize how serious the situation is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u46	Thank you very much. There have been some discussions, I have written some things down and it is right to answer or give an opinion. If we're talking about another wave, then we can say the situation is difficult. No one in Europe expected another wave, and this increased the risk and increased the uncertainty as to how to proceed. The only thing that gives us some security, some security in the future, is the vaccine. That's my personal opinion. And from this point of view, it's a security that, I'll say, can be perfect or at least as perfect as it actually keeps people healthy. The second wave has mainly resulted in an increase in the cost of treatment, across Europe, and increased debts, including across Europe and around the world. I've already said that, in all countries, gross social product has fallen, economic growth has fallen except in China. Now, not just for every country, I will say, pull your tongue, but at least I will say, if we want, India, the United States, Europe, France in Europe, Germany, Canada, Australia, these developed countries have all experienced a decline in economic growth, the biggest. And the debts are higher. The only thing that is necessary and important to me in solving this epidemic is to insist that we insist on measures to prevent the spread of the epidemic, the spread of the virus, and that we also insist on measures that mean additional expenditure in the budget, an additional deficit to preserve jobs and to keep businesses alive. I will never say that this will preserve all jobs and all businesses. But I can say that today there is less unemployment in the country than in March or April and May. That's what the statistics show. Nor can I say that statistics are substantively complete, because they can also be among these people because of the measures some who are employed today and can be unemployed tomorrow. But life will change, and also activities, those that were very pro-crisis in pre-crisis times, before the epidemic, had a very large yield, a great economic growth, today or tomorrow, will no longer be such an activity. But there will be some other activities that will be more stimulating. This angle has increased debt and increased deficits, both in Europe and in our country. And here, for the first time, fiscal policy has reacted by allowing deficits to exist in the country, by allowing it to cease to be a fiscal rule, and by allowing additional money to be given, as I have already said, for jobs and for the preservation of businesses. There's monetary policy on the other side. There was also a question — and I have answered this question several times before — about the guarantee scheme, the issue of liquidity. Yes, the guarantee scheme is not implemented in Slovenia. There are very few companies that run it, 30. First time. The companies are not the ones that would come for the guarantee, but the business bank that gives credit to the company, transfers this credit to the development bank, to the SID bank, and these transfers are relatively small. But liquidity is good. And according to the information I have, according to Banka Slovenije, they provide banks, business banks with a lot of credit. The liquidity of the economy is better than it was in the spring. Not to mention the liquidity of the population, which is even larger, they have a lot of deposits. And here we can also say: that we are happy and satisfied that there is confidence between businesses and banks that they do not benefit from the guarantee. However, we have a guarantee at our disposal for the future if necessary. So from this point of view, of course, these perceptions that keep coming in, how something doesn't work – it's simple, this measure was probably made in stock. Because if you look at the public data on how many liquidity loans banks are providing, if you look at how many loan deposits have actually been granted, then you see that the financial system, the financial market in Slovenia is completely stable and liquidity is satisfactory and good. Then, of course, the question to which I will answer several times is the value added tax and the value added tax proposals. At the moment, there is no need to reduce value added tax because value added tax will not bring any price reductions. Prices are still marketed. And some countries, including Germany, have reduced the value added tax. We have focused on direct assistance to businesses and individuals – direct, not indirect aid to be lower, but direct – with a number of measures in six packages. This method of assistance has been assessed as good in Europe. I think I have already mentioned which cities, when countries have ranked, some international institutions, Slovenia has met in all countries in the world – among the first 10 and also among the first five on the effectiveness of the measures. This is not a thank you or a thank you, but I want to say that we can help businesses indirectly by lowering their costs, which we have also done by lowering our excise duties and by reducing our oil derivatives at the price of €1 for nine or 10 months. It's an indirect way. But direct: to give money to a company, to an individual. And this is much more effective in my opinion, and I think that in the opinion of many economists as well. Other taxes have also been mentioned and so on what will happen in the tax area. Taxes will certainly not be increased, but there are certainly taxes that can also increase certain consumption, such as taxes on motor vehicles, if they are reduced. Because this consumption has stalled, and even if I look at the data on the sale of cars – and I looked at them and I found that, according to last year, the year before, and so on, the simple consumption of such goods has stalled. This is where the government can and will do more. There was also a question regarding migrant workers in relation to taxes. We work in this area too, and we have not forgotten anything. So I can say, for the first time, that we have completely forgotten nothing. The next question, where I'll probably repeat myself a little bit, is about the projects we're talking about. For the first time in Slovenia, according to the new, we will have, we have already received the first payment for the SURE programme, that was said yesterday, from European funds we still have a recovery fund. However, for these projects, the recovery fund actually needs to be implemented. This means that projects must be made in accordance with the guidelines set out by the European Commission. The hospital can also be built within the framework of this project. Under this project, a home for the elderly can also be built. But it's basically here for the project, it's not just the building as it is. And such projects or money for such projects are also reserved in the budget. When you say what we're going to do – I've already listed some investments, in the area of health for example, I mentioned the modernisation of the clinical centre in Ljubljana, the general hospital in Celje, and I could find another one, I mentioned the 3rd development axis. I don't know what else to say about the project, about the modernisation of rail transport, about going from department to department. All of this is written in the budget, in the third part of the budget. We can take it and read it, but then we'll talk about things that are basically written. And you can't make a budget without having a project in the back. You can't even draw on money, you can't even put up a project if you don't have some basic documents on what this project is actually going to look like. Technically, you can't do that. And that's why I'm talking about 2 billion extra investments in each of these years. But it is true and I agree that they must be transparent, they must be financed transparent and must be effective and profitable. This return is for the road, this applies to all, or the railway cannot be measured at the time of construction, but this return will probably be when this road will be built, when the multiplier effects of the road, railways, hospitals, home for the elderly, schools, kindergartens. It's all in the budget. It's not like it's some kind of bubble and it wouldn't be these projects that you say they're not actually there. But it's a tough time. And the circumstances and the environment are unpredictable, but we agree here. But even under such circumstances, it is necessary to do the optimum thing that can be done. And it is necessary to be optimistic that once the crisis is over, the economic momentum will be as rapid as possible and Slovenia will be able to act as quickly as possible, I will say, shake off these crises and start doing business. And that's how it's done, and that's how this budget is supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Jure Ferjan has the floor, but Mrs Elena Zavadlav Ushaj is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u48	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues and, of course, all those who accompany us are very well greeted! They are more important before us, I think we can agree that even one of the most important documents we accept in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, at the end of the day, I can understand the words of the opposition that we have heard in the last two hours, as far as today's debate is concerned, and a few hours before us, we have heard that they are concerned. The situation in which we are is difficult is complex, and as we see it, it changes from day to day or from week to week. That is why planning public spending and planning is even more difficult, even more difficult. At this point, however, I wonder whether or not they would have been, or what it would have been like if the opposition's colleagues and colleagues were so concerned when their fellow Members refused to wear the mask, even in this national assembly, when their fellow Members and colleagues, party colleagues and colleagues called for unregistered or undeclared and therefore illegal protests, they even took part. How concerned were they at the time? Of course, I don't want to go any further when I say that they even called for the government's actions and recommendations to be disregarded by the profession. How concerned were they at the time? And if they were as concerned as they are about this budget, how many are less infected on the one hand and how many on the other side could there be fewer dead on the other side today? I'm going to touch on this before I substantively go on to the central theme, that is to say to the budget, and also to the budget – the talk was quite a bit about cooperation. Yesterday, the Prime Minister of the Government reiterated that the deadline for co-operation was still offered to the opposition, and respected colleagues and colleagues in the opposition, you received a cooperation agreement in May this year. So much for words on one side and actions on the other. And, of course, some, some of the opposition responded, but the majority unfortunately did not. I am pleased that we have before us an ambitious document that the budget or draft amending budget for 2021 brings ambitious goals, and this is reflected in the fact that when we compare certain numbers with individual ministries, with individual departments, such as the implementation in 2019 compared with the amendment proposal in 2021, this has increased significantly to what many ministries have done. And I'll only point out some. Surely, at this time, the most pressing Ministry of Health, which has more than €345 million in funding under the draft budget for 2021. For a concrete comparison: in 2019 they were available 183, and for next year they will have more than half a billion, i.e. EUR 528 million, and, of course, they are not health-care funds, but additional funds for this purpose, i.e. for investments and various things that need to be regulated in Slovenian health care. The next area, the Ministry of Agriculture, 200 additional million euros, and the Ministry of Infrastructure, 143 million additional resources, followed by the Ministry of Economy, with 72 million additional funds and the Ministry of Culture, with 65 million additional funds. So, from this point of view, we can see that the budget for 2021 is development-oriented and, of course, targeted. At the same time, I am particularly pleased that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the importance of local development and that this budget document also contains a total of EUR 350 million for individual investments in municipalities, i.e. in the local community. Of course, this goes on to add that by raising the average for Slovenian municipalities in total there is an additional €84 million, and as we well know, we also have before us the proposal for a law on the financial burden of municipalities, which is also subject to consideration at one of the points of this extraordinary meeting. So, a whole bunch of measures that will also encourage local investment, and I am sure that we are all well aware that these investments mean even more added value, especially for all of us, i.e. for every resident and resident of our beautiful country. And when we talk about investments, what EUR 2 billion is in this budget of the Republic of Slovenia, in 2021, is dedicated to investments. Here we can talk about transport infrastructure, both road and rail, the 3rd development axis, then additional investments in health care, as regards UKC Ljubljana as general hospital Celje, then of course additional investments in culture and sports infrastructure, as we know, is one of the important building blocks, important elements in Slovenian society. I would like to point out that more than obviously the current government is aware that prevention is better and, after all, cheaper than curativeness and mitigation of consequences. In particular, this is reflected in additional resources in the area of water treatment and flood infrastructure. As we have seen in the past, there is a lot to be arranged in this area, and it is right to do so before nature surprises us again. Building homes for the elderly, 11 million euros is guaranteed. This is about completing the construction of two houses and starting the construction of five. This is, of course, an exception to the important area in Slovenia, which is a very ageing society. The individual items and projects also offer support to businesses and entrepreneurship, Slovenian tourism and also continue to invest in science, which in these times, as we see, is also extremely important in the coming year. The budget also makes it possible to implement the European Union's domestic development programmes and measures and instruments for recovery and resilience, which is of course extremely important. In these uncertain times, it is certainly a very encouraging commitment by the Ministry of Finance that no taxes will be raised in 2021 and that the Government will not introduce any new taxes. I think that this commitment is extremely important, we can say both for the economy and not least for the population. In this area, in fact, the opposite of an increase – of course, in certain fiscal policies – is planned, even most likely a single reduction in certain taxes that will have a beneficial impact on individuals, and through the eyes of this economic policy in some medium-term period, I believe that even in a better purchase and better and even after all a more equitable collection of state taxes. I will also touch on this occasion the public debt of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that Slovenia's public debt is increasing significantly in 2020. It is also true that the public debt of the Republic of Slovenia is increasing in 2020 because the government has decided to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic by helping the economy and helping the Slovenian population. And that's what's happening. We've already received five anti-coron packets, we have a table six, we'll deal with it next week, we'll probably have seven by the end of the year. In short, it is indeed very effective in this area. It should also be pointed out that in 2021, the current debt that the Republic of Slovenia has allocated as much as €3.7 billion will be repaid and, of course, we can expect public debt to fall by 2 percentage points, so that we will most likely come back below 80% of the gross domestic product. So public debt is below 80% of GDP. Of course, what is important here is that Slovenia owes itself at a time when it has an excellent rating and, of course, also significantly more favourable conditions for borrowing, as regards interest rates as well as other factors that, at the end of the period, affect the level of the cost when we look at it below the line. It is therefore right that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has approached this problem in this way. Even if we look at most of the Member States of the European Union, this crisis and the face of this crisis is significantly different than it has been in the past, let us say in the last decade or two decades, when we have faced, in one way or another, the economic and social crisis, or the economic and economic crisis, which is, for the first time, health first, but also, of course, reflected in the economy and the economy. Rather, it is simple — when is it best to be in debt, and why? So when the rating is the highest and the interest rates are the lowest. And of course, to encourage investment, to maintain that healthy foundation, that core of the economy, and of course to mitigate the consequences of the population. As we have seen in the past, unfortunately, the funds for which Slovenia has also been in charge were, in the first place, directed to banks and individual elites. I am pleased to note that the Government has taken good measures to reduce public debt or to reduce debt, as foreseen in the context of the projected economic growth and debt proposal, that the Slovenian banking system is also liquid, that it is stable and, of course, that it is a liquid Slovenian economy and also the population. And this is a reflection of the good action taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, by this National Assembly, which has confirmed these anti-koronapackets and several other legislation frameworks that we have adopted in recent months. Above all, it must also be added here that any contribution made by any one of us to curb this crisis, this epidemic, is extremely important. So allow me once again to thank all those, especially all those who are in the front lines, in the first battle lines and face the epidemic, with the pandemic of the Coronavirus – thank you very much. But thank you, of course, also to all citizens and citizens who adhere to the government's recommendations and actions, and you are in the first place the most responsible to yourself and to your fellow citizens, and directly to public health and to all of us. Here's the word, two only meant what was said ten minutes ago about the second wave. Coronavirus epidemic, coronavirus covid-19 is a new virus, it's still a new virus. Here it is that all of us are certainly surprised by its intensity, its dimension. If we are talking about the readiness of the current authority and if we compare it with the first wave and today or a few weeks ago with the second wave, look at the capacity of the hospital beds, see the capacity of the equipment. However, for one particular example, we can look at the situation in UKC Ljubljana, where nothing has changed in a decade before, and it is now clearly yes. In 10 days, many extra beds were arranged. I think it's about 100. So if it's will, if it's political will, if it's knowledge and interest, then there's a lot to settle. And this government is working. Respected and respected, the budget or proposal for amending the budget for 2021 is development-oriented, targeted. I am pleased that it preserves and nurtures the social component, but at the same time it represents a response to the pandemic, to the epidemic and responds to the many challenges facing the Slovenian economy. At the same time, he also cares about the welfare of the individual. I will therefore support the budget documents for 2021 and 2022 with full responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Prednik has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u50	Vice President, thank you. In a short time, I will only respond to a fellow Ferjan, whom I respect, and I will only point out that we have a budget on the table, and in his debate he has been dealing with the opposition. And not only did he account for it, it's still kind of acceptable, but he even blamed the opposition for the rise in the number of infections and also death. I mean, at least what it is, it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... After all, you have your government, you, unfortunately coalition Members, are only an extended deadline for the government, you are not hoping to change any measures. With these measures, my dear fellow Ferjan, your government has been delayed. I have already made it clear in the debate that I did not resent your government in March because it was a new phenomenon, and I resent it now because it is not a new phenomenon. And the second wave you predicted yourself. But I do know the principle of your client and your government, on the principle that it must always have an enemy who, of course, is guilty, because you are not guilty of anything. And I'm not accusing you of being guilty of this, for that and for that and for that and for the third, but it would be nice if you'd admit sometimes that you've missed out on a matter or missed out. In my debate, I said that my client had missed in the past, not just one thing, on more than one matter. And once you admit it, you'll be on the right track. Your responsibility is, you are a coalition, you have a comfortable majority in this House. You can vote the opposition any time, and you do. And if we hadn't always voted the opposition over the last six months, believe me, a lot of trouble wouldn't have been as hot as it was. Also the app Stay healthy – I have it so it won't be a mistake, I have it – you've promoted it as the only way to save everything, but it doesn't seem to be. Even your ministers, who were in the past, and not long ago, walking around without masks, I will not show you pictures because we saw them all, they got infected, even though they had this app. So a little self-criticism and stop charging with the opposition. At the very least, stop accusing the opposition of death and the number of infections. You've been in power since March, you've got everything in your hands, and you've been in a lot of trouble. This needs to be said clearly and loudly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Ms Elena Zavadlav Usaj has the floor and Mr Željko Cigler is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u52	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Very well greeted Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues and everyone who is watching us for TV screens! First of all, I would refer to the words of my colleague the Foreman, for he probably came from a position like that of theirs when they run the government. It is difficult, I know, to hear that citizens and citizens are satisfied with the measures and that the measures are also effective and that this is a budget from which development looks and what this government will do is hard to admit and say. The government also knew that the second wave would come, and it prepared itself to what extent the second wave would come, and no one knew. So much for the intro. Now I'm going to go to the very subject. Today we have before us a proposal for changes to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021, which is certainly not normal and is not accepted under normal conditions, but is adopted during the outbreak of covid-19 and with great influence on the drafting of changes to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021. The changes were recorded with great caution and consideration of the situation both in Slovenia and in Europe and in the world, indicating that international circumstances have been taken into account. And there is no negligible indication that recession is already being predicted. Certainly, the first wave of the epidemic marked both the lives and habits of humans and the economy. At present, we are in the middle of a second wave, which does not mean that, despite the anticipated vaccine to be given gradually and evenly by countries from December onwards, there will not be a third wave, as population transplantation will not occur within one month. That is why the composition of the 2021 budget changes has taken even more into account the fact that the impact of the epidemic will continue to be high in the coming period and that the recovery of both the economy and the population is likely to take place later than anticipated. Thus, the macroeconomic assessments and forecasts made by Umar in the autumn forecast, which does not mean that these estimates will not change in the future, based on these estimates, which would result in a fall in economic activity of 6,7 % of the gross social product in 2020 in the following year, to 5.1 % of gross social product growth. In addition to these assessments, a derogation from fiscal rules is taken into account, as the Fiscal Council said that there are conditions for a temporary deviation from the medium-term balance of public finances and are also met in 2021. Of course, these conditions will change according to the consequences of the epidemic, so their existence will be regularly monitored and verified by the Fiscal Council, which is also, of course, correct. However, this is very important at this point in time because the number of additional recovery measures can be increased. As a result, the focus of the 2021 budget changes is on increasing investment in all areas, especially in the areas of health care, care for older people, cultures, economies, rail and road infrastructures, as well as investment in environmental issues. For this purpose, there are as many as 2 billion more resources. It is commendable that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has provided more funds to invest in investments that will help drive consumption, as it will reduce significantly on the part of the population. What is not negligible and will have a major impact in the local community is also the fact that the budget increases the investment transfer for municipalities of €350 million. Thus, in addition to increasing the average, which has also helped greatly to mitigate the deficit in municipal budgets, the municipalities will receive additional funds earmarked for investment. These are the resources directed directly to the population, since they are the municipalities closest to the people. This government has shown concern for vulnerable groups as well as for the economy, especially for those most affected, such as catering and tourism, as well as all other service activities with an 80 per cent decline in November. There will be a slight decline in leisure services. In the commercial work, the decline by type of activity will be very different; in the total sum, the consequences of this activity will be smaller. The first wave of the epidemic had a far greater impact on the store. In alleviating the epidemic and drawing up this budget, it is also essential that the European Central Bank has provided additional financial assistance. Thus, the European Central Bank has provided additional liquidity to business banks, as well as favourable debt conditions have helped to cover some more than 3 billion past debt and reduce interest rates. From all this, it is possible to understand that the government of Janez Janša is taking an approach to solving the consequences of the epidemic in an integrated manner and to consider each budget item to be used and not accepted and budgeted for projects that are not considered and adopted only for reasons of likeness, but that the proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 is designed to reflect the effects of individual budget items in the environment with a greater value and impact than their initial contribution. Nor will you find an item in the budget changes that would be written just to make someone happy because it is written there, as some opposition parties would like to see an amendment in this way. But that's why it's written because it's feasible and has no harmful consequences for the country or the economy. Otherwise, I do not understand that they did not include some of their investment proposals in the budget when they were alone in the government, such as the Finance Committee repeatedly exposed the library in Maribor. This is not a problem since the beginning of this government, but there has been something else for many years and such proposals. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware that the consequences of the epidemic will reach out to all times of life, the economy will be affected, a family will be in crisis and individuals will not see the outcome will be listed. But because of the same problems the whole world faces, the Slovenian Government can praise the effective measures taken in anti-Korona packages, which have been very helpful in mitigating the consequences of the epidemic both in the economy and among the population, especially in the social field. This is reflected in the fact that Slovenia is very good at the top of the scale of countries less affected by the epidemic and also has very good credit ratings. To conclude, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken into account all the proposals perceived as good and having a positive impact on public finances in the drafting of the draft budget for 2021 and will be of great help in overcoming the consequences of the epidemic in the Slovenian environment. That is why I thank the Government of Janez Janša for drawing up a developmental proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021, and I wish her a successful work on the road map, which is certainly not as easy as some want to show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Željko Cigler, preparing for Mrs Suzanne Pretty Šimenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam President, Madam Secretary of State! We have before us a budget that citizens and citizens of Slovenia will not assess after being voted by the coalition or has proposals from the opposition in it, amendments, but mainly because it is the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, how it will answer open questions, how it will respond to the problems and visions of their particular life, that is to say to prosperity. And when we reviewed the proposed budget in Levica, we found that there are quite a few points that we have discussed in the past months or in the past two years of our mandate, but there are no answers that are urgently needed, either in the area of home for the elderly, health, culture, education, kindergartens, science or the economy, not to mention further. For this reason, we intend to make several proposals in the course of the debate to improve this budget, in particular in the form of amendments, both substantively and with numbers, where to add funds and where to take them. We are aware, however, that the situation has now come to be that, as the former Minister of Finance, Mr Šircelj, very clearly stated, the circumstances and the environment are very unpredictable, and the question is how long will this unpredictability persist. We need to draw up a budget for 2021 – a budget dedicated to people. That's what I'd say. This National Assembly – I do not want to open up arms discussions now – Maslow, but this National Assembly – has adopted a specific budget investment programme only for the Slovenian Army, but when we talk about the lack of homes for the elderly, the absence of a network of long-term assistance, urgently needed investments in health or education, and the Minister, as he told us in the last discussion, answers us that there are really no investment programmes here, tells us where he wants to invest, what he wants to build, what resources for these purposes, whether for an infectious clinic in Ljubljana or anything else, if I say so, but we will get from the European Community programme when we get this money or get it from the title of the future financial perspective. I think the government here must be significantly more concrete. When the Minister of Health gave us a short list of investments in health care, which are necessary to carry out, in order to maintain at least the existing level of health care and the availability of health care in Slovenia, he counted a lot of things. However, Mr Gantar does not formulate this speech in the investment programme of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia, which is presented in the budget, as Mr Tonin for Arms did. Now I don't know what we need anymore. I think we need a healthy soldier alive first, and then we put a gun in his hand. [[…]] Here's what I'd like to say, three specific things. In Levi, we note that the outbreak – if I first touch on the areas of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities – of the long-term care areas, we propose to increase the funds by €50 million in this area, in a way that, in the proposal for the state budget for 2021, of the total estimated €800 million in expenditure to limit the effects of codua, of which €500 million is allocated to the Ministry of Finance and it is not explained what they will be used for, is not a concrete matter, 50 million is taken from this amount. Why? The outbreak of covida-19 was due to the human resources and financial distress in the area of home for the elderly, in particular due to the lack of long-term care, resulting in one excessive number of victims and damage, particularly death in this most vulnerable and socially threatened population in Slovenia, which is in the elderly. I liked it earlier when a colleague from the Slovenian Democratic Party said that they would end up under the budget two already starting building houses for the elderly and starting to build five new ones. In Levica, however, we note the Court's audit report, which showed the cost of care in the nursing home and in the nursing home, which is public property in the Republic of Slovenia, we believe that if five additional homes are to be built for the elderly, they must be built by the State with the means of purpose and that means must be provided. Therefore, in Levica, with the amendment, we propose that 50 million, as I said before, be obtained from the undefined covid financing line of the covid epidemic, which is prepared in the area of the Ministry of Finance to strengthen existing and build new homes for the elderly. This money is for both human resources and financial reinforcements. Today, we see a very serious problem in nursing homes where there is a shortage of staff working with older ones, especially qualified ones. And one of the important problems here is that this frame is strongly under-rewarded for its very difficult work. The second thing we propose in Levica is the amendment in the field of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. I must say that when we addressed the urgent need for additional school facilities for the implementation of statutory compulsory primary education in 2019, then all the parties we were or were, however you wish, in the opposition, both Nova Slovenija and the Slovenian Democratic Party, agreed that there was a need to invest significantly more money in Slovenian education, in the provision of additional premises than is currently envisaged. This money is provided by the State through the co-financing of municipalities for the construction of primary and kindergarten facilities. At that time we were based on data based on the Surs database, the statistical office, and this is that by 2023 we will need 14 thousand 251 additional places in primary schools in Slovenia. In particular, these needs will be concentrated in the city’s municipalities. The Ministry of Education actually confirmed this and said that by 2023 a circus of 750 new departments would be needed or 75 million money would be needed. This amount cannot be left to the municipalities alone, and we once agreed with the previous opposition, and I hope that we will reach this consensus in the National Assembly, that additional money should be provided to the local communities to finance the urgently needed primary schools. In Levica we propose that this money is 15 million in 2021 and that this money is also obtained from the unspecified item financing of the covida-19 epidemic under the heading of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, the State budget proposal for 2021 provides for a total of 800 million, of which 800 million from the Ministry, 50 of which are allocated to limit the effects of covida, of which 500 are allocated to the Ministry of Finance, receive an additional 15 million, deductions. We also propose that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport also increase the sub-programme to increase the involvement of children in pre-school education by taking 10 million from the item I mentioned earlier and from which we also take money for financial strengthening and strengthening to build a home for the elderly, 10 million for additional provision of kindergarten facilities. In particular, kindergarten facilities, in the case of kindergartens in Slovenia, are regulated by the Regulations on Normative and Minimum Technical Conditions for kindergarten spaces and equipment. This Regulation, however, has a Article, a transitional Article, which has provided that this game size of the child must be ensured by 1 September 2023. Many congregations, or almost most kindergartens, will have to reduce the number of children who may be involved in public child care because they are simply too small, but children are quite involved in public schooling. This is why we propose in Levica that the investment in kindergarten be increased by 10 million in 2021 and then made accessible to local communities through the tender issued by the State, namely the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which are, of course, the founders of public kindergartens and need this money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, which concludes this round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. The budget for 2021 was adopted under another government at a time when we had no idea that we could be hit by an epidemic of coronavirus. If, at that time of autumn last year, someone said that a virus would come next year that would completely change our daily life, they would probably all say that it was just one science fiction and that someone was just watching a little too much television. But unfortunately, this is our reality since spring, and we can really say that this is an extraordinary situation, a situation that is so difficult for individuals, because there are many others at home, some are babysitting, some are helping them in school remotely, many economists have had to close their doors for a while, but on the other hand we have overloaded health, very difficult situations and difficult confessions of people who are actually sick behind the coronavirus. When we monitor the numbers of the dead in Slovenia every day, but of course we can do even more, I will say something that freezes in some way. The situation is more than serious and it is also appropriate to adjust the budget for the coming year. It is crucial in all this that we keep our existing jobs as far as possible, and not only that, but also that we somehow ensure more paid jobs and thus greater prosperity for citizens and citizens. If we look at the general part of the budget for 2021, which is ahead of us, we see that in view of what was adopted last year, revenue has significantly decreased by almost €1.2 billion, most on the income line, the corporate income tax and, of course, the value added tax. Only the European funds item is increasing. I believe that the current government is doing its best to ensure that all European funds are drawn from an existing and also future financial perspective, and this increase on the revenue side is, in some ways, a logical consequence. What increases significantly is, of course, expenditure. There's a lot of expenditure going on, I'll say, running things, these are running expenses, they're kind of increasing in proportion. I am pleased, however, that investment expenditure is also greatly increasing. They say, yes, how happy we can be to have an increase in departures – not least in the long term, even though the country has had to make an additional debt because of the situation, if we make the right direction, we can still gain a lot in the long run, especially if we as a country have a good rating in the world and we can still in some way be in debt. And if we compare ourselves with other European countries, I think we are still doing very well and we are in good control. Investment expenditure will thus be increased according to the 2021 plan by almost half a billion euros. It is mainly about buying equipment, new construction, reconstruction, adaptation, short-term investment in new fixed assets and also in maintenance and renovation. Investment transfers to legal persons, natural persons, are also increasing, mainly for public companies and companies owned by the State or municipalities, as well as investment transfers to budgetary users, where investment transfers to municipalities and investment transfers to public institutions are the most increasing. I must say that in some ways I am pleased that the current government is very aware that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana and that it is driving the development of the local community. In the past, all were overly neglected, especially small municipalities, municipalities from the outskirts of Slovenia, border municipalities, and I think that by raising averages and all other measures all municipalities will gain, and many of them have been in a deprived position all the time. What does this really mean if we just look at what it means to raise averages for, say, this little congregation? This actually means, for them, somewhere from 100 to 200,000 euros a year. For one municipality, which has 3,4 000 inhabitants there, these are already some specific investments, which we finally feel completely everyone, because we are all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. This, of course, improves the lives of all of us. As a very positive assessment, I think that, regardless of the situation, a lot of resources are being channelled towards investment itself, as this does not mean that we will also start an economy in this way in order to maintain a number of jobs, and I hope that in the next and then in 2022 we will obtain more jobs, especially with a higher added value. We can have a lot of investment in infrastructure in the coming year. And everyone says, yes, because investment in infrastructure, it's happening over and over again, but look, whatever, that's what's extremely important. In recent years, we have been able to say for decades that investments in both road and rail infrastructure have been significantly undernourished. If I just look into the environment in which I live, I can say that there will finally be movement in the construction of the Ptuj – Ormož fast road, that there will finally be the rehabilitation of the Ptuj –Slovenian Bistrica regional road, that there will finally be the construction of the Kidričevo railway, and that then the other smaller projects here will not even be listed. What seems to me to be of great importance in the past is not enough in the area of flood safety. In particular, the residents along the Drava River at every turn of the rain and when Drava water is growing in Austria, I will say, with one such fear they are monitoring what will happen, and we can finally promise to improve the flood safety of Drava also from Ptuj to Ormož, and also in smaller watercourses such as Dravinja in Majsperk, the arrangements of Poland in the Videm and Kidrichev municipalities and could also be listed. Not to mention the beaches on the other side. Maybe a lot of people living in the city have no idea, but for a small municipality that has, I don't know, fewer than 2,000 inhabitants, and in every natural disaster, a few reptiles happen to it, and the rehabilitation of one beach is about 300, 400, 500 thousand — I don't know, you can probably imagine how big a bite this is for these small congregations. And last but not least, this also endangers the lives of a number of citizens. In the budgets for 2021 and also for 2022 we have quite a few possibilities for co-financing such beaches, so that the municipalities in such an area facing this issue can also do something about it. I am pleased that my predecessor mentioned the need to build kindergartens, after some maintenance works, according to the expansions of primary schools, even for this area we have the resources provided in the coming year. On Friday and Saturday, the Committee on Finance ensured that the funds would be and that the country would also co-finance kindergartens and rehabilitations and the upgrading of primary schools. So we can also look forward to changes in this area. The protection of the elderly has been highlighted — we can also look forward to changes here. Most likely, however, given the situation in which we are in need of health care, and there goes quite a part of the budget meal if I may say so. What is crucial when investments are made to keep jobs is that we somehow reduce all unnecessary red tape. And I am pleased to hear what I have heard here today from the Minister – that we do not promise new taxes in the coming year, and we can expect a reduction in any of the taxes, which is of course very encouraging. If we defuse our laws with all the unnecessary red tape and if we reduce taxes, if we have as much investment as possible, then I think we are really on the right track. Of course, it is crucial, then, that we successfully contain the Coronavirus epidemic, and for all the resources on the other hand, that we successfully absorb all the resources available to us. I am in favour of the 2021 budget itself, and of course I will be happy to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I owe you an apology. I missed the last interviewer. Mr. Igor Peček, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Regardless of how close the year 2021 is, we are likely to examine all those involved, and, most importantly, the ones most responsible, with the preparation of these documents, we are asking a key question: How precisely and what is the reliability of the proposed or mentioned items? In the circumstances in which we are, it is certainly difficult to assume or plan very hard, here we must be honest with each other, especially with regard to the planned revenue more than the expenditure. The expenditure is or will be more or less determined. And if we just look at revenue in 2021, these are less than 1 billion than in 2019, and I'm afraid that this assessment may still be too optimistic. But when we look at the planned revenue and expenditure in 2021, we are looking at a deficit of €2.75 billion or 5.6% of GDP in the income and expenditure balance. However, to finance the planned deficit from this same balance sheet, if we add an account of financial claims and investments and to repay the debt, we need a new debt of €6.7 billion. Debt reduction is a difficult and difficult task. The former Minister of Finance, Dr. Bertoncelj, has been very much aware of this. We must not forget that in the last 10 years we have been nominally indebted, nominally speaking, nominally stressing, reduced only twice – in 2016 and in 2019 by as much as 620 million. In doing so, we must not forget that we paid 780 million for the financing or interest on a smaller debt in 2019. Today, we have heard the President of the Government predicting that we will pay less debt to finance the new, much higher debt, and I very much want it, and I believe that everyone else will. However, the problem of indebtedness arises primarily when we overindebt ourselves or if we do not know exactly why we will spend it. This raises a more difficult question: how will we return it in the future? He has already warned the Fiscal Council about the rebalancing, and this is how he warns now. Here I will quote the Fiscal Council: “The fiscal world calls on the government to be careful about additional debt, as the experience of the past significant debt increase over the period 2009 to 2013 shows that debt reduction is difficult.” End of story. In summary, we will add 10.2 billion new debt to the existing debt in three years, or each year the government will be in debt for 3.4 billion. If I simplify or say a little more domestically, over the next three years, every citizen will be in charge of an additional thousand 600 euros a year or three years, including 2020, for 5,000 euros. The duration of the epidemic is uncertain, even the virus itself works its way, as we have heard in this house already, it is not known when the appropriate vaccine will be available, and it behaves as it behaves. And with this uncertainty and the behavior of this virus, there are costs on the one hand, and especially what worries me more – the loss of income on the other hand. For our country or, above all, with the condition of our country and both the social and economic situation in our society, the key question or question is: will this budget deficit really be reduced in the years ahead, and to the extent envisaged? Will we make it to 1.6 in two years from 4.2 billion? We are certainly united that the extent of the debt and the reduction of the budget deficit will be affected to a large extent by the effectiveness of drawing on European funds, how to obtain and how to properly spend resources of a good 10 billion, by what reforms and by what programmes those projects are, how to address them, that they will have truly expected added value and the corresponding multiplier effects. But here I have to say that the government's behavior seems a little wrong to me. Why? In 2021, we expect €631 million from the European Union budget. In my opinion, this is very large, at least after the experiences we have, or I hope to say so. Although we have put in place a work programme, in my opinion it is not enough to have a work programme or a draft plan, this plan will have to be formulated by the European Commission to confirm it and, above all, it will have to be implemented. 1.6 billion means 15% of all revenue, and that's not enough. From the 2014-20 perspective, we still have a little less than 1.8 billion, the conditions for the multiannual financial framework are not yet agreed on, and we have heard today that there will be a few more coordinations needed within the European Commission, Parliament and then also the Member States to confirm this programme. We are left with the Fund for Recovery and Resistance, which will or will be strongly desired and I hope that it will really be available somewhere in the second half of 2021. The EUR 5.2 billion left for us in the Recovery and Development Fund will absolutely have to be allocated wisely. These are development funds. I do not see them as funds to be spent on programmes in this work material or draft, which has already been received either in review or in addition, as we call it, the European Commission, but 80% of 127 investments or 314 projects are projects dedicated to infrastructure. That is precisely why the criticism of the European Commission was so extensive. I wish that this criticism or this fact would not have a negative impact on our drawing capacity and that the European Commission's response is a guide, or if I can call it a lesson to the Government or all of us, that these starting and recovery resources will have to be used more carefully. Here I would rather joke than really say it in a government language: that more tweets on these topics would have a greater effect than to have any other. What, at least in my opinion, do I think should be changed, or what should we do differently, or what should be taken into account, in order for our development strategy to follow the direction of the European Commission? It is important that the National Recovery and Resistance Plan should be based primarily on projects having multiple effects, taking into account the fact that 40% of these funds will be allocated to the Green Programme and 20% of the digitisation funds, more than half of the money is said. In doing so, we should set ourselves a basic guide, or a basic guide, that we will really know how to spend these resources on development, that we will still be able to talk about a development-oriented, forward-looking society that will be able to offer accessible public health and public education to all, and that, with less mistrust and less polarisation, the general public, with the publication of analyses, we can also define together those key priorities that are essential for the development of our country. Just keeping things in perspective isn't enough, we need development. One Brussels can be very close, it can be a little further away, but above all it is important that Brussels is not alienated from us or that we are not alienated from Brussels. Last but not least, I think that in the working environment, I perceive or can say that there is little incentive for businesses, perhaps a little more for local communities, to announce certain projects and initiatives. That is why it seems to me that this framework set of projects that we are talking about and for which we have another month of time – we can then coordinate it in January and February, but if it is not properly set at the beginning, I fear that the corrections will be even worse. I certainly don't want to just patch up some utility infrastructure. For the sake of our understanding, I am not against the regulation of municipal infrastructure, but in this part it is about other things. There is no Minister today, so I have no questions, but given that I have already asked two of the same questions the last time, but I have no answer, I will not have questions today, but I will raise a few more questions for both budgets in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Yes, it is. Applications are under way. The first word is Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Madam Secretary of State! First of all, I must say that I have listened very carefully to all the debates of Members and Members so far, as well as to the discussions or replies of Minister Shirtzl, when it is also very patient, I think I have been very reasonable in answering the questions raised by opposition Members. I can say that, however, in view of the situation in which we are all together, I expected a little more understanding from the opposition parliamentary groups, as well as a little more constructive debate. In general, the behaviour of a very investment-oriented budget, or for both budgets, for 2021 and 2022, on the one hand, and for a socially oriented budget on the other. In the history of Slovenia, I do not think we have yet had such a socially oriented budget, even when the left governments were. So it would probably be good for the opposition to approach and also commend these solutions that have been made within both budgets. I said that I have listened very carefully to the debates of Members and Members so far, and I must say that I have also listened particularly closely to the debate of my fellow Jew. I must say that if he meant honestly, if his debate was honest, then I am satisfied. However, I must say that I am sorry that he is no longer the President of the Social Democrats. Perhaps today we could work much better together, given what he has said, and given that the Social Democrats, as well as other opposition opposition groups, were offered immediately at the beginning to cooperate and formulate measures together, and also to approach some good solutions for the good of the people and for the good of Slovenia. From the very beginning, like the Social Democrats, let's say they worked together before, even in the Partnership for Development 2004-2008. And I can commend that that cooperation was very good, very correct. I myself, as then's Member, was elected to Parliament for the first time, very well cooperated with the Members of the Social Democrats in the various areas I covered. And we've managed to reconcile a lot of things together. Today, I would personally expect that from everyone sitting in opposition parliamentary benches. So, here you have to make some urgent distinction, that there's some talking, and then there's some applying. We do that, but on the other hand, there's a lot of talk. As regards the budget for 2021 and 2022. As I said before, they were born in a very difficult period, a difficult situation. Nobody expected anything like this, the whole world faces things we never knew before. In my view, the government has planned these two budgets very well, given the situation we are in. When it planned where it would allocate funds in the budget lines, of course, it was also based on the Umarje forecast, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which, among other things, announced the gradual recovery of the economy, which, of course, will not be at the pre-epidemic level, at least not immediately. But these are all the consequences this epidemic has on society. But because of this, it is necessary to invest, as I said before, in investments, and that is what this budget is all about. We have considered five so-called anti-koronapackets in this National Assembly since March, April. The National Assembly will, I think, firstly on Monday, address the sixth anti-kronapacket on the Committee, have already prepared seven anti-kronapacks, all with a view to getting the most out of the way and as much of the consequences the epidemic has on society as possible. In particular, this government is certainly aware, and I hope or believe that we are also aware here in the National Assembly, that everything needs to be done to mitigate the consequences that are very large on the economy, on individuals, on tourism, on agriculture. We've been trying to jam all of this right in these packages. Let me remind you that the measures contained in these packages have been positively adopted by the economy, that the social partners have always been involved in the Economic and Social Council, that there has always been a high consensus among the social partners for action, but of course it is clear that everything cannot be squeezed into every package. However, everything was being done in the direction that as far as possible was enough for the widest possible groups of people and that the most vulnerable were not to be forgotten in particular. Given that I am also the president of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons in this National Assembly, of course, I am particularly pleased that more resources are allocated to the most vulnerable areas in the budgets, i.e. social security. I have said before that the budget has never been so socially oriented, it is said, there has never been so much money spent on social security for people, for the most vulnerable, for the care of the elderly, for investing in the new staff that is urgently needed in various forms of institutional protection, in health care. Under no left government has there been so much funding earmarked for this item, i.e. for Social Security. And so that I don't think about it, I'm going to tell you what that means in numbers. If we look at the realisation of the social security item in 2019, we can see that the realisation was a billion and about 280 million euros. The 2020 Implementation Assessment is a billion and 369 million. The proposal we have today, the budget for 2021, means an increase of EUR 110 million from 2020 on this item. If we look at the budget for 2022 and for an additional 5 million and a half. In short, these are real numbers, this is reality, this is not some fiction, something abstract. It's right to say it out loud, because I feel like maybe there are some things here sometimes, and I'm gonna say, we don't communicate very well. We also do not have the backdrop of the so-called majority media behind us, so that we may then correct these mistakes as they may do for the other side. But that is why we have the opportunity here to say some things out loud and that citizens and citizens can also hear us. So that was Social Security. This one seems very important and urgent to me, so I also mentioned these items in particular. If we look at the health sector, we can see that there is an increase in funds of as much as €345 million – absolutely necessary and welcome – just for all of the things that my colleague from Left mentioned earlier. These funds will also go for these purposes. So the item was raised by EUR 345 million. I must mention that, given that each Member has been elected to a particular area – I come from the Municipality of Vipava – I am elected to the municipalities of Vipava and Ajdovščina, in this area – it seems to me to be right here, so that residents know that the mayors also know that in 2021 the municipalities will receive a transfer for investments of EUR 350 million. You can calculate what this means for some local community. A lot. And it is important that funds go for the right purposes, in particular investment, which they are intended for. I think that the Government has set this budget very well to save in the light of what is happening today, including the budget, in addition to the six packages already mentioned and the preparation of the seventh, we love some of the consequences that the covida-19 epidemic has on all of us, while at the same time trying to strengthen the economy again. This is important. And it seems to me that sometimes some things just aren't heard, so you have to repeat them more than once. It is important to invest in investments, so I am happy to say that in the field of the congregation where I come from, it will build up that much will be invested in investments. I will not list everything here now, for sure there will be another opportunity here, but it is clear here that this budget is certainly oriented towards the future, that it has objectives that are necessary and essential for our society at this time. It is important that all of this develops and that we do everything, once again, to mitigate as much as possible the consequences of the epidemic on all of us at this time. In this light and in this spirit, this budget is made today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u62	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are talking in general about the budgets of 2021 and 2022, but you know, when we talk about the budget, we are talking about the law, we are talking about one document that is practically showing us how we are going to take this country. And here, right at the beginning, is the problem. I personally also understand that those who do not know and those who believe applaud those who do, but the truth and reality are completely different. Mr Ferrjan mentioned two things earlier, mentioned that banks are liquid and that the economy is liquid. Today it's a stage that doesn't go together anymore. The banks are, of course, liquid because they cannot be otherwise as liquid, but the economy is completely on the ground. And by what we have done now, the second time we have sealed the country, we have blocked the functioning of the country, but in my opinion we have given the economy a major blow. The consequences will not be seen immediately, the consequences will be visible tomorrow, after the new year, and they will indeed be visible. I can say this firsthand, from my own experience. Since we made the first wave through, we endured, the economy survived, but the second wave will probably be destined for a lot of people. Why? Because certain measures have been completely ineffective, as I have told the Minister many times before, especially for micro and small enterprises that employ 70% of our population. There is the biggest problem because these companies, which have from five to seven, up to eight employees, are the most, they cannot fully use any of these measures. The law on liquidity was prepared, and if you remember correctly when I spoke six months ago this law on liquidity died, it did not even come to life. [[…]] Just as I had foretold and talked about the liquidity law at the time – that this is a completely stupid law, it is not possible to enforce it because the conditions are such that they cannot be realized, impossible. And as such, he turned out to be. As I was saying at the time, how much businesses can be indebted, what differences there are between commercial companies and what service companies are, this was probably not clear because certain people do not work in these industries and do not understand what the difference is. I have seen – I believe it is in PKP6, obviously, I am not yet sure – that they will raise that debt line from 10% to 25%, which is the basis for surviving one company at all. I'm extremely sad to see that our money is being used absolutely uncontrolledly. Many measures are ineffective. They are intended only as a political campaign. Believe me, it's just a pure political campaign. Let one tell me what measures have been effective for all. Only specified for certain large companies because they could have acted in this way. The way they imagined it, but it's just a small part of everything. By being a bulletproof country, as I said before, and this is one serious problem. Then you end up accepting some PKPs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, now you're doing seven, one after the other, and it's just sand in the eyes. Just sand in your eyes. If we go to the budget thing. I'm not going to say again what we said on all the interested bodies, if you say so, or on the boards, wherever we are, because it makes no sense. But there are certain points I'd like to address here. Here you speak to me, my fellow Members, especially those who praise this budget, are forecasting the growth of GDP. All growth estimates are generally linked to the EU's promised funds, and this is where everything comes from. This is where it all comes from. And we know for ourselves what happened today, they were blocked by your multi-community friends. So now you can praise me and you can get closer to their ideologies, opinions, thinking, working, but the fact is that what you're most hoping for, and you're hoping for European funds, has been blocked by your friends. Your friends you're looking after. Instead of looking at other countries, you look at these. As I have already mentioned, the forecast of GDP growth, revenue, deficit reduction and so on, everything is based entirely on these European funds, which – let's put it this way – Slovenia has received from Europe. But all this is still so uncertain in the light of what happened today, which I have just mentioned. So long as we don't reach an agreement that was somehow, the framework agreement has somehow been reached from the beginning, but when we get to the place with these funds, we should now set it up. And right here, and right here, there was a big problem. The system of Europe, the veto system, the system of disagreements, the system of right governments in certain countries have led to what we have now. You know, yesterday we had a question for ministers, and I had a question for Minister Cernač, and I asked him a number of questions and asked him a few questions. He was extremely boastful of how successful they were and what they had done, in fact, it was just written on paper, what they were now saying, in fact, nothing has been done yet. And I'll tell you why. The European Commission has considered the origins of our national recovery plan or resource drawdown plan inappropriate, you know, we all know that. Some investments were loaded up, some figures were loaded up, completely not according to what the guidelines were given. Because it is necessary to work somehow after the thinking of the citizens, according to their model, and you do not understand that this is no longer in that document or plan, which is an important plan for our future, because this is what you have set up practically the entire budget for 2021 and also 2022. In that plan, which was officially not adopted and nothing, but you already sent it up, there were projects, unrated projects, no clear commitment to goals such as green, such as the digital future. Absolutely none of that. And I'm not talking about projects that have been completely fragmented. This fragmentation, if we look at it, has caused poor pumping in the past. The fragmentation of the projects was due to the fact that we have been poorly pumped in the past. You know, it's interesting, it's interesting that this project has been prepared by practically exactly those people who have had their mouths full of criticism all these years. Full-mouthed critics for their predecessors, of course, not for now, for those who have worked before, and of course they have been exposed to the inability to draw funds and I don't know what else: "When we are in government, everything will be different, we will know how to do it." Now, the main party of the SDS, which had even jumbo posters on this subject hanged after Slovenia, was how the European funds were, and how they would do it. Everything can be written on paper and displayed on a balance sheet, on a budget on the revenue side of a billion and 600, and it is written down and then equaled to the budget coming then with the revenue and expenditure as it should be. But will we really be able to draw on this in Slovenia in the way Montenegro said yesterday? [[…]] Since he didn't show anything yesterday, I'm very sorry. Just incompetence, that's all. You know, a lot of companies, if you say so, the organisations have also told me that they have somehow called for cooperation and how to run for these funds, but they have not received any response from the Ministry, the SVRK or the Minister of Montenegro. Now you think about when the highest priority is to draw, not to answer, not to receive, not to listen, and not to give them the opportunity to explain. Because that's what I've always said: the SVR must be reorganized, completely. So, at a stage like this, it can't work. I was hoping that you, the great SDS, would do it because you've always been full of smug, full of criticism to everyone else. Now you're in position – you know what they give you for good? The only good thing is that you still have on your side the fiscal world, which, for every billion you need, you tell him, is now absolutely necessary, you need to be re-credited, and then somehow approved. And then you come here with a proposal, with a new decree or with new things, that we accept this recreditation. I speak very simply that the people watching us – there are a lot of people watching us, believe me – understand what this is about. That this is not only shown in a good light, we gave the students 150 euros, we gave the pensioners 300 euros, we gave everything we needed, and we are doing the electoral campaign for the future and everything we need. But do you know what the consequences are, what this will leave behind? You don't care! Because I've already asked the minister six times to tell me the exit strategies from this phase. The exit strategy is also a European resource. Do you think the strategy is to re-establish, I don't know, an airline? Because that's what it said in the file. Do you think that the European strategy is that we are going to do sewerage and that we are going to do, I don't know, even the road and what was needed, what you were sending up there? I'm very sorry, but this is no development strategy, none. You know, when companies and various institutions, organizations, such and different, one month, one month, there was no answer, no spirit, no hearing. How is this possible if we ourselves know that this is the largest investment programme in our country? As far as you can tell. You know, these problems don't just happen if you say they're companies, they're even ministries. Even the Ministry. Because you know, you don't want to know the people who are in the ministries who tell us. I don't know who he was before, one MEP was talking about European Members or I don't know who's working where to keep them back, that they don't have to say they're whistleblowers or whistleblowers or I don't know what to do. Of course you do, because that's perfectly normal. One is more popular on one side, one on the other, and then they tell you what's going on. If it's nonsense, they'll tell you everything. It's just fine, because it's purely fair. It's only fair. And then the information comes out. Neither has the Ministry received certain information, especially those not covered by the SDS. And that's why I'm saying that somehow, I would say that the SDS wants to completely control and direct consumption, for example, of those 2.1 billion non-refundable European funds. Of course! Let me tell you just one example, in Austria, they've called everyone, all the interested people around, the chambers, the institutes, everything that they've done a general development programme after covid. They did not shut themselves down and then do this strategy, as the Poles and Hungarians say, which have shown today what they are capable of, what a kick in the ass they have put on Slovenia. Literally kick in the ass and you praise them and you wait for them and you'll give them now, I don't know, even Luka Koper, second track, sold them again, dragged them back into the second track, sold the Czech railroads, I don't know what else. What else are you gonna make up? We probably have to ask ourselves some time, you know, if it's not your strategy to get the country on its knees so you can say that we can sell it because we don't have the money. That's what it is. Only you don't realize it, but those who are above you are very well aware of it. When you receive a warning from Europe that Slovenia has mainly projects for regulating municipal infrastructure What is this important?Oh, my God! [[…]] Is this the way out of the crisis? They literally have nothing in common with the agreed objectives of the European Union. I think she has put Slovenia on the European Commission as such a pre-election SDS programme. Clean because that's exactly what you wrote up. All these posters that are up there, which we see now and which have been, I also have them painted – that is exactly what is written in these programs of yours, because you think it works in such a way that you can do what you want with us here, literally, even in Europe. But unfortunately, Your Honor, that's not the case. You know, yesterday I found it very interesting to listen to Chernač, the Minister, so full of himself that these decisions of support were signed, to 3 billion and so much about the budget. Now I'll tell you. In the past, our government has already signed two billion 200 decisions on support. But decisions on support are nothing, completed projects and how much money has come from Europe back to our country, that is data! And he didn't give me that. That's what I wanted to know – how much money is spent real, really. But that doesn't mean the projects are approved. We don't care about that. Because it can be written on paper on fast 3 billion projects. On paper, how they'll be realized, that's what everybody cares about. How much was really pumped? Because even if the budget says 1 billion 600 to predict, it is necessary to draw funds from Europe — where, in what way? The way you're doing it right now, it's not gonna work. I told you exactly the last time we spoke about congregations. I will refer to this pump and to what is also mentioned by my colleague Irgle, who boasted about the 350 million that the congregations will receive. These 350 million are only 40 million more than they would receive, and it is also right to receive, and I am always happy that the congregations receive this money. Right, last time. The rest is all about European funds. Let's be aware of this and not paint people. It's all about European funds! How will the municipalities implement these projects if they cannot pay the difference between a 15 % project and an over-indebted project? But they can pay. Most congregations can pay for these innovations if they are called. And this is what I told the minister — that the threshold of duty should be raised. The municipalities should be allowed to raise the threshold of debt so that the projects they have in the drawer can be implemented with debt. For a large number of projects, support decisions have been made and have not been implemented. They're not real. We're talking about a billion and more. And if you're not aware of that, then it's totally out of the question that we're here to deal with a budget that is always a budget, I repeat, on paper. It's not a real budget. I'm telling you these things because I've been making budgets smaller in the municipalities, but it's exactly the same principle, exactly the same principle. Same. You can't go any further from here. It's the revenue side and the expenditure side and it has to come with each other. But if you write on the revenue side that you have 1 billion 600 European funds that you don't know how you're going to cash them and how you're going to cash them and what projects and where you're going to target them, this budget just isn't right, it's down 15%. You have to understand that. I hope you understand so much. The municipalities, however, are the main development channel of our country. This is regional development, the main channel, those who put ideas on the table. I would like to know how many times the minister went from municipality to municipality to see what the real programs of the municipalities were, but not the Esdees mayors, all the mayors, because they all have good programs. Everyone has good programs, and I want to know. I remember that there is also one Excel table, how much there was a decision on support that was realized, which was not realized and why the project was not realized. And do you know what one of the main causes is? What I mentioned earlier – the inability to finance the project's difference between European funds and own resources. If we don't understand it, we can forget that billion and 600, and all that he was bragging about yesterday, as much as he signed. And then there's something else. Then he brags about signing a decision on support for about 7% or 10%, or I don't know how much more he said. If it comes true, where will the money come from? In case that comes to pass. 10% of 3 billion – we're talking 300 million. It's not a little snack, it's money! This is where the complete incompetence of the man appears in that place. Sorry, that's right. And he's talking to me about a decision on support. I was interested in how much money we have actually absorbed and how much money Europe has returned to the cash register of Slovenia. It is. That, simply put. Of course, we have three more years, of course, we do, but we still have to sign decisions on support at this point, when we know what the situation is – who will dare to invest by scaring people to frighten the nation? No one's going to invest, not for at least a year. So I don't believe in this budget and I absolutely don't believe in it. And that no one would think by chance, indeed, except those of your believers, that some would not really think that you are successful and effective in this mandate – see, you are not. Do you know what we call it in Primorska? Walking into a secret with a full ass is very easy and easy. But this ass will slowly empty and then we'll see how you walk into the secret. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, look, I'm sorry, that's right. That's right. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, I didn't, no. I'm a very honest man and very real. And I'm saying real things because I know what this is about, and I want to say exactly what it is. You are boasting about some 10 and a half billion budgets. Do you understand what this is about? It's not a problem. In 14 days, you'll come here again, there'll be a crisis again, you'll go to the fiscal world, and you'll confirm 1 billion new loans, we'll be back in debt for 1 billion. It happens, you have most of it in there, you do what you want. The only tool we have is what I have here right now — to tell people what nonsense is going on. Who's gonna pay for all this? Who's gonna pay for all this? And you know what the biggest paradox of all this is? That you are in the final stages of supporting the war's profits. You know what I'm gonna tell you? You don't even know anything – do you know who is one of the main war winners at the moment in Slovenia? The pharmacy, the pharmacy. The pharmacies are being cashed out in all ways, in all possible ways. Now it's come out that vitamin D is good against the coronavirus if you're resistant. I was alone in the pharmacy when I went to look for some things that I just needed – one vitamin D 15 euro. 15 Euros of vitamin D! They're going through so much, and where's the control around here? Where's the control?Oh, my God! People who have lost their jobs, people who have nothing left to buy for every money, which even if they said 30 euros, they'd buy it because they're afraid because you're scaring them here! [[…]] “ So many dead ” How many dead? [[…]] How many people are dead because of covid or covid? That's what you have to say once. Nobody minimizes the problem with this virus, because we all care, because we all respect masks, distances, community, everything. We all respect each other. Except for some, especially the ruling, the government and ministers. But we've talked about this before. But they were not punished; the poor poor man who was with the croissant was punished. Or the man from Walt who was giving food, who sat down, ate a sandwich, or I don't know, had a burek, he was punished. Shame on you. I'll say it again. When will this thank you and your smug success end? As long as the fiscal world holds your stand, by the way. They do. They're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, Once the fiscal world tells you, now it's over, we can't, because it's not. From where? And in order for the Fiscal Council, after the three decrees we've adopted, to come here once and say, give me the recovery program, give me the rescue strategy. Personally, as a Member, I would like to have it. I haven't seen her, nor has she been told who we're going to give, who's going to get it, how it's going to be. We close everything and then you see in the budget how much VAT is missing, how many companies have closed down, how many are unemployed. But boast that there are no unemployed. I'll tell you how many are unemployed – they're huge. Because those on hold tomorrow will all be unemployed. There'll be plenty of them. Because they will be on hold — do you know how long? As long as the state gives them a chance to stay on hold. When this wait is over, all the unemployed will be even higher costs for the country than they are now. And let yourself be aware of that. Now I'm about to finish, President. You know, the worst part is personal to me because I can emotionally see what kind of problem we are and what kind of country we're living in right now and what this ruling thing is like right now. In the background he maneuvers and maneuvers and does all the things in the light of this pandemic in the backstage, if you say so, and what it is. And then who's really gonna get hurt? We know who it will be. We'll all be killed. But first of all, do you know who's gonna get the most hurt? The one who will rule over you, which you probably won't. I hope not. He will suffer the most because he will inherit a catastrophic way of presenting, solving the problems and measures that you are now putting on the table. But those who will suffer the most will be our families. But this will be the worst and you will see how it will come out of this crisis, how it will barely come out of this crisis. And it will be. This budget here - I don't know, no. I'm predicting a certain bad harvest, a bad seven-year-old, like you who go to mass, seven dry cows, that's for sure. And Minister Shircel is still bragging about how he did it. And you know what absurd absurdity is, exactly the one that's maximum what it is? The biggest thing is that this morning we hear the President of the Government, the Prime Minister of the Government, this morning, apologizing to Hungary and the Poles for being right. Donald Tusk, Donald Tusk, is the president of the EPP and writes: "Who is against the rule of law is against Europe. I expect a clear position on this from all EPP parties. The opponents of our fundamental values must no longer be protected." Did he make it clear? And you know what happens next? Then on Twitter we get a reply from Minister Cernač: "Those who truly advocate the rule of law will never allow themselves to be judged by political bodies, not by the European Parliament, even less by the European Commission. Are there really only two sane countries in Europe?" And these sane countries would be Hungary and Poland that blocked this budget! These countries have literally blocked this budget today. Dear Secretary of State, I don't believe you're as calm as you always sit there in peace and listen. I don't believe you're so calm in your heart. You'll have responsibility, you know. You and your minister, mostly. Mostly. Since this budget will not be realized, I tell you. I respect the measures, I respect the things you've done, I respect everything you need to do, but this budget, believe me, will not be realized for a simple reason – because of the draw that will not achieve what you expect. And you'll be able to tell me that in six months if you're still on the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam President. It is very difficult to listen to the praise of the coalition Members, how wonderful the budget we have before us, while the facts are completely different. We all know, and everyone who wants to see anything, we see it. In short, the budget is neither investment nor social. We're always saying that the budget is ideologies, and it's numbered, but there's something even worse than ideology. This budget document not only reflects the wrong policies and wrong priorities of the third government, Janez Janša, but also reflects an authoritarian and conspirative way of ruling. Why am I saying that? Because 11% of total budget spending falls under some heading to manage the epidemic, where 500 million euros remain at the Ministry of Finance, to MGRT 50 million euros. In short, the Government has provided itself with an exclusive right to spend our common budgetary resources, as if it were their private property. Totally without Parliament's approval, without any restrictions in 2020/2021, it provided EUR 2.2 billion. And that, you see, is worrying. For we saw, as my predecessor had said, that it was to a great extent a war profit. We have seen what was happening with the help of friendly companies and with the purchase of protective equipment – 2.2 billion euros the government has made itself available to them as it would seem. Although we now have a historic opportunity – given that we do not have a fiscal rule and that we are promised favourable international credit and assistance from the European Union – we have a unique opportunity to finally launch projects that have suffered the biggest cuts in the previous crisis. This has been for 10 years, since 2012 when we know that the biggest cuts have been suffered by just culture, health, social, young people with long-term care. Instead of starting here, we accept here and you will obviously adopt a budget with completely wrong priorities. 10.2 billion debt will be accumulated within three years, which, as they have already said, is 5,000 euros for each citizen and citizen. This is something that I'm very afraid of and that our grandchildren will also pay. Any government that comes for John Janša’s third government will have an impossible and difficult job, for this time this government is working on the system of burned earth. You're talking about investments. Investment is something you invest in to make it worth your while. For example, the military is not an investment, but 780 million for the weapons you are likely to buy from anyone other than Orban's friend is a return for the SDS campaign. Because we know Orban gave unlimited money for the last SDS campaign. We keep jobs. With what? Yesterday we had parliamentary questions and Mr Restoration said that the minimum wage should be reduced to keep employers from going elsewhere. The capital is a shy bird and he likes to bounce off. So our workers will work for even more miserable wages just to – what? We've kept jobs. Are we even aware that the health crisis is followed by a severe economic crisis? And we haven't even faced it yet. So the priorities, as we said, are completely wrong. Here, however, the President of the Government explained to us this morning, almost 90% of his speech devoted to the defence of Hungary and Poland, when the media tried to discipline Hungary and Poland, to which it appears as a third country, unfortunately also us. And to our great misfortune and the shame that it does to us abroad. The rule of law is the foundation of the European Union, he said, but it bothers him that European aid is conditional on respect for the rule of law, as he is aware that the rule of law in Slovenia has been in no way respected since the start of his government's appearance. In short, the problem is to face an epidemic, a health epidemic, but there is no means to invest in health care, no means to build urgently needed infectious clinics in Ljubljana and Maribor. Here's some amount that's more than half as small as weapons. What's next? We're being followed by a collapse of a basket of health services and privatisation. There's no housing. Our young people, who are both pre-arranged and unemployed, can't get to them, let alone a loan or an apartment, they're missing. After some calculations there are 9,000 100 missing, I'd say there are a lot more rental apartments missing. We would like to be Switzerland, compare ourselves with Austria — that is where the rent system is very well distributed and it is not difficult to get a favorable lease. There is very little equity housing just because housing cooperatives exist, there is a solidarity network where every young family can rent an adequate apartment. We have 6 million in the budget line, which is not even for 100 rental apartments. 680 million for weapons, Hungary Orban to pay for the SDS campaign, 6 million for the apartments our children will rent. There has also been a decrease in unemployment benefits. It fell by 13 million in 2021 and another 25 million by 2022. Are you even aware that unemployment is going to grow and not fall? That we're in for a lot of sobriety when we're hit by an economic crisis? Or will the worker, as he says, have to work for a lower minimum wage and perhaps the employer will then remain? Maybe if we worked for free, they'd be best served. A total of 12 thousand pensioners are waiting for their beds in their homes for the elderly, who are both financially and humanly malnourished. That's what the government was aware of. She was aware that there was also a second wave of epidemics, and they simply did not take any preventive steps in that direction. Poverty among pensioners. Next. We are a rapidly ageing society – no, priority is, of course, a weapon or forgiveness to the rich. With 46% of pensioners below 600 euros. Well, 1% of them have over 2,000, which is also kind of a unique one, I think that's the difference. 69,000 elderly people live below the poverty line, of which 48 thousand have been retired women. We women have been paid worse our whole lives than male colleagues and, of course, we also have lower pensions when retirement occurs. In short, the government is concerned at this time – Janez Janša, this is all of its side importance, he is mainly concerned about the fate of a handful of luxury vehicle owners, so he proposes to abolish the luxury tax. So that those few friends who can drive crazy luxury cars can get tax breaks and further impoverish the state budget. Of course, SDS had a slogan, as formerly said colleague Bandelli on the jumbo posters: Less on taxes, more on you! Yeah, just not for the poor. The poor guy may get a few euros more tax breaks, but he'll have to pay his own doctor when he gets the check. Because if we're being followed by this privatisation, then we're really in very bad skin. The next thing that worries me very much, and I also asked the question yesterday, is how much we give to the RCC and to all connected institutions. This information would be of great interest to me. How much do we lose annually by not paying taxes on profits, on VAT, by not paying taxes on real estate, on the use of building land, on inheritance taxes and gifts? How much are we losing here? And then this government allows itself, given that this budget is pure ideology, all religious servants are equalized to self-employed. Please! A self-employed person who can work as an entrepreneur, a craftsman, a culturer, anyone, worked until the government made it impossible for him to work. From his work and his invoices, he put up bills and paid taxes. And from these taxes, this government is obliged to ensure that it overcomes a period when it cannot work so that it can work again and pay taxes. What do religious servants have in common with self - workers? What makes a priest, a priest, a bellman, a cook's life different? I mean, really these are the art that this government is making up. [[…]] And then the Minister of Culture said yesterday that paying contributions to self-employed people in culture is a privilege. By the fact that self-employed people in culture have to prove five years of excellence, excellence. Prove it. On the other hand, someone who is a fully privileged person does not have to pay taxes or prove what he does, is excellent or bad, even if he exists, he has all these rights. And then allow yourselves and dare to attack NGOs and organizations! While St. Stanislav's office gets the most money among NGOs, there's 67 million, the Slomšk Foundation 33 and 530. Erar, look at this. Let's start telling the truth here. There are enough holy cows no one can touch. We have an increasing number of poor people in this country, not just the elderly! I have a friend who works at the bakery, and as long as the bread isn't sold, you can get a bag for 1 euro - the type before the bakery closes is getting longer. People wait in line to get a bag of old bread, and we give millions to privileged and wealthy institutions that do not even have a seat in Slovenia. When the burned earth is abandoned by the government of Janez Janša and when it privatizes and sells everything and when there is no more piece of Slovenian land or any company and when we have no free education, no health care, what will happen? These privileged will go to their villas abroad, which they already have, and the nation will live with these billions of debts, I really don't know how. Financing ideology. But it's gonna be a museum of independence, isn't it? And for that, there's money in the budget. It is not available for Slovenian film, it is not for culture, for what Slovenians do and preserve through the centuries, but it is for a dictator who, hopefully, will get a 20-meter statue, donkeys breast, I don't mind. In short, war profits and burned-out land, that's what awaits us. And don't praise us for this budget, please. There is no money for public scientific and research activities. Okay. The budget for 2021 is increasing by €21 million, but it should be borne in mind that the Government, with the 2020 budget rebalancing, has taken away 23 million from this item. So the funds don't go up, but there are fewer. In addition, it should be borne in mind that a good part of these funds, instead of unduly flowing into public scientific activities, into research projects for the purposes of private capital. It is therefore important that in 2021 a new item for a scientific research activity of EUR 47 million is opened at the Ministry of Finance, again, in addition to the 500 million for whom we do not know. The Ministry of Finance is simply not responsible for this activity. That is why we have prepared two amendments in Levica, and we have proposed that these 47 million from research programmes and projects at the Ministry of Finance should be refocused on research projects to the competent Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. We also propose that an additional EUR 10 million for scientific research be provided under the heading Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia, again at the Ministry of Finance, of course. So we have two amendments in this direction, and I think that these are things that only help solve the big problems that are going on, and especially the imprudentness of this budget. In the second amendment, we also propose that 94 million from research programmes and projects at the Ministry of Finance should be refocused on the item Research programmes and projects to the competent Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, and we also propose that an additional 20 million euros from scientific research activities be provided under the heading Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia, which is equal for 2020 and 2021. The budget is imprecise. It is worrisome that it is conspirative and that simply a parliament can only have what we have today – let us note, let us speak. For after the money has been distributed, we will no longer have a word, but of course we will have the opportunity and duty of all of us and our children and grandchildren to pay this question of this government. So please let us consider what you are doing, for the decade will not be enough to repair the damage that will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman. Since the exercise of power in this country by the government of John Janša, we can practically daily follow the following lines in the National Assembly when it operates: this government is the best, this government is the most effective, guilty of such or other mistakes is they, the second, the third. Of course, the truth is soon reversed, not only when the government is defended by coalition MPs, but also when government representatives themselves come before television cameras. In the same way, we need to understand today's rhetoric about how we have a strong investment and social budget for 2021 and 2022 on the table. Ladies and gentlemen of the SDS, if this budget is held to be as much investment and as very social as you swear, then it is a socialist budget. Then you have prepared, ladies and gentlemen, a socialist budget. So how do you respond to the consequences and make your own claims? Of course, we are not dealing with the socialist budget. We are not dealing with a serious social, let alone a serious investment budget. Unless, of course, you're some kind of gun company. Then this budget is very investment for you. If you are an infectious clinic, on the other hand, then you will not find this investment in the budget in 2021, 2022. Moreover, at the same time with the adoption of the budget, I can listen to discussions of a coalition nature about how tax cuts are needed, or even that we can expect a reduction of taxes, and then in the same breath, coalition Members claim that they would have investments and that they are right to have investments. Yes, dear souls, how do you think investments are financed? The country's main income is taxes. While you would not even cut taxes for the average or in such a way that it would be beneficial for the working majority in that country. Like the luxury tax, you would cut taxes for the rich. And it's faster for the capital. Many of these two budgets are also received due to the forecast of indebtedness. I just don't mind being naked. And only the information that Slovenia will be in charge of so much and so much and that it has already been in charge of so much and so much is not a problem in itself. Nor does the State repay its loans in the traditional sense understood by households, but it refinances them. However, to be able to refinance them, it is necessary to invest wisely in debt. In a social sense, this investment means not only infrastructure, but also infrastructure for social solidarity: public hospitals, social security aid, development of public institutions, schools, universities and so on. If the state commits itself to invest in science to invest in development in order to strengthen its key subsystems that contribute to the well-being of citizens and citizens, it is well spent money that will sooner or later demonstrate its value. But after eight months, the government of Janez Janša seems more likely to be in charge of the state to pay its own commissions and its own friends. Whether in the form of illegal corruption, as we can accompany it, we can monitor it in the purchase of protective masks, fans and so on, or in the form of purely legal interventions, with which our common public money, which the state still owes, capitalizes the profits of the owners of the production assets, is said to be capitalists. Only from the initial sets of PKP laws have 600 million euro been poured into the liquidity reserves of companies. More than half a billion euros, I repeat, of our public money, for which the government of Janez Janša has entrusted the country. Does anyone remember any special measure from past anti-coron laws that stated that we will increase the liquidity reserves of companies with public funds? Don't you? Neither do I. They said they had help for job conservation companies, for waiting workers and so on, but how on earth did the money from all these measures, instead of moving into jobs, turn into liquidity reserves? This is a very obvious dual strategy of the government of Janez Janša. This dual strategy is based on the poverty of public funds, state treasury funds, so that a) feeds the capitalist class as a whole in that country and b) in particular converts public funds into circles around the ruling coalition. Here we have such and different interest lobbying. I mentioned the acquisition of protective equipment earlier, such as one such exclusive case where the related structures in the economy and elsewhere with individuals or parties in the ruling coalition are directly sung. In a similar critical way, we also need to look at the claims that there is no social budget and justifications, but look at the rise in social expenditure. Of course they're getting up, not because there's going to be money social assistance or whatever, but because there's going to be people asking for money social assistance and for other social transfers more. As there will be more poverty, there will be more social misery, and after you have done so with past anti-coron laws, I don't know how many hundreds of millions and billions of dollars you've pushed into the economy to maintain jobs. This rise in the social budget for the next two years does not stem from the fact that I do not know what the government's social commitment to Janez Janša is, but comes from its inability to maintain jobs. All the funds for which these items are raised are raised out of the legal obligation because, under the current legislation, the State is obliged to pay to people who are in social distress. These manipulations, even the lies we listen to, “look at how social the budget is, because the funds go up” show exactly the opposite of what government speakers and coalition speakers are trying to convince us. This is not a will of the social welfare of the government, it is a will of its absolute incompetence that any way leads society under the covida-19 epidemic. By the way, let's see what priorities this government has shown at a purely daily political level over the last few months. Privatisation of Slovenian Railways – Freight Transport. The most profitable company in the Slovenian Railway Group, the poor half of which was sold off by the Government to the Czech oligarch Kretinski, who is engaged in monopolizing the media, is, of course, the far right oligarch, a friend of the extreme right ideologies, as married by the Slovenian Democratic Party at the same time as she married Hungarian dictator Viktor Orban. While public health is going through our stitches when we are in public health, 50 million euros is passed by all the rules applicable to the payment of services, public health materials, the report is intended to shorten waiting periods among private people. This is war profit, these are all the faces of war profit: capitalisation of private health, sale of Slovenian railways – freight transport, acquisition of protective equipment, loading of public funds as subsidies of capitalist profits and so on. Just different faces of war profit. And the government of Janez Janša has turned this war profit into art, art in front of everyone. What they're doing, they're not even hiding, but to the extent that this looting of public goods is happening — yes, that's the extent that we can call it art. And then, hopefully, he hopes to incinerate workers on a minimum wage in this country so that they will not get the marriage raise that we in Levica managed to overcome by amending the Minimum Wage Act. Since the poor economists, since the 600 million euros that went into the liquidity reserves of companies in addition to all the other funds, have apparently not been enough, let us now give the people who are on minimum wages who already cannot survive this raise here. These are the priorities of the government of Janez Janša, as can be seen in this budget. And those who say for themselves that they are the best, that they are the most capable, that they are oh and at all – you know what best sums up the last eight months and the promises they draw up budgets for 2021 and 2022? This address, which I read today on the radiotelevision portal of Slovenia MMC: The use of antidepressants has increased dramatically during the epidemic. A better title that would take on how the government of John Janša turns the entire country and the two million people into a psychiatric hospital would not have been able to invent it if it had been painted. The first paragraph of this article is also very eloquent if we go to read it. We find this quote: “Psychiatry is not in power, but, of course, authority still has a bearing on who and how and with what symptoms comes into psychiatry,” explains psychiatrist and therapist Breda Yelen Sobočan. This is not about the immediate consequences of the covida-19 epidemic as such, but it is about what Janez Janša and the people in this country and the country are doing. And of course, we have this information: April was issued for 21% more antidepressant prescriptions than the same month last May for 41. How is that possible if we have such a very strong social budget and it is so nice for people under this government?Oh, my God! And it's only gonna get worse. The basic social subsystems remain nourished and the money is being spent on international military complexes as if it were growing on trees. This government acts like money grows on trees. Ironically, that's exactly what socialists like to see. Puffs for everyone, profits for capitalists and government friends, and money to grow up in a tree. There is no way to correct this budget in the concept. We have also tried to do so in cooperation with other opposition parties in Levica at least on some points where there may be something else to patch up. So let's say we are allocating funds for investments in the healthcare system in an additional amount of EUR 25 million, and we are taking these funds from the Ministry of Defence, not from the entries of the Slovenian Army, as the Government would have said, but from the items from which the weapons are bought. Instead of going 25 million in weapons, the socialists want these 25 million euros to go into the investment of the health system, which is heavily undernourished, not only at current costs, but a very visible investment deficit in the last decade and more. The government obviously does not see this deficit or see it only enough to allocate €18 million to it to complete existing investments at the secondary and tertiary levels. At the same time, I'm going to say once again, 50 million Euros of kabajaga to shorten waiting periods is nothing to me, nothing to you to private people. And public health is the one that brought us through the epidemic. Public hospitals are the ones who cry in the seams, tear down their roofs, don't close their windows, can't turn their beds in, and don't know what else, because they're so highly nourished. The EUR 18 million the Government has set aside for this purpose is a spit in the sea. We are trying to add an additional EUR 25 million to this by saying, instead of weapons, that it is the health of citizens and citizens. Another point we are trying to address is the lack of resources for science and research. Now, as large as it is — and this must be said — is not a phenomenon that is limited to the government of Janez Janša, but has been accompanying us for quite some time — some public funds that are supposed to run research, development into the common social good, are flowing into some partial research for individual capitalists and are thus disproportionately flowing directly or directly into the profits of these capitalists. For these profits, people in this country certainly do not pay taxes. We pay taxes because we want solidarity and because we want everyone to live better together, not that someone else has a third weekend in the Caribbean and a fifth yacht parked in some tax haven. Here we say that it should be a scientific research activity of €47 million. This is the 47 million euro already introduced at the Ministry of Finance as a reservation. We were able to do this at the budgetary treatment of the committee responsible, if that's a provision for funds if we get co-financing. We say, however, that if we are serious about wanting to support science, that we want to support research, these EUR 47 million cannot sit at the Ministry of Finance, which is not already responsible for these matters, but that they should be transferred directly to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport as a departmental ministry, and that these funds should also actually be used for scientific research, and not that they should be held by the Minister of Shircelj, who will work with them as a Boggsigawad. In addition, we are strengthening this number with an additional EUR 10 million. This is the total amount, the joint strengthening of the scientific research activity proposed by the amendments is €57 million. Why it's so important and I'll tell you in a slightly different way, maybe a slightly more colorful way that someone will understand. Covida-19 Epidemic – Who is developing the vaccine? Who develops the vaccine in Slovenia, in the world? Who's developing the vaccine? Northrop Grumman, Lockheed Martin? No, no, no. For example, this is what the Chemical Institute does for us, and you would like to spend 780 million euros on weapons. Next. Another very important amendment is the additional funding of home for the elderly. We want to spend 50 million euros on this. The government itself, Janez Janša, has estimated that 300 million euros are needed for long-term care, and there are 23 million euro fights on this item, no matter what pre-election billboards they have about how great they are for pensioners, the SDS party has. At the beginning of the government of Janez Janša, we listened to something worse, down below, how we will surely get five new homes for the elderly. I remain skeptical of getting five new homes for the elderly, without needing five homes, we need 50. Yeah, we need 50, we have 12,000 people waiting in line for bed right now who are suffering because they can't get care in the homes of older citizens. The care of the elderly and the safe age for the past governments were not a major priority either. However, all the acuteity of this problem has been demonstrated in the epidemic situation, as the elderly are at risk of being affected by a group and therefore especially at the stroke of the coronary virus. In addition, it is necessary not only to invest in spatial capacity, but also to provide for investments in human resources capacities. The Ministry of Defence is running a few million-dollar propaganda campaign calling for people to wear Slovenian Army uniforms and to take arms. The budget does not reflect that anything like this could be triggered to obtain family doctors, nurses or anything like that. More. Why was it not a formal epidemic that was declared long ago in autumn, even though we all knew it was an epidemic? Due to the fact that the collective agreement states that employees would receive a 65% supplement to their salaries in the context of the epidemic, when it is also announced, nurses and so on. The government of Janez Janša did not declare the epidemic because it splintered on nurses, on nurses, on health staff that they would not come to these supplements, so that enough money will remain in the budget for you, ladies and gentlemen, to buy weapons from foreign military industrial complexes. And in these months, between the first and second waves, you haven't taken care of one extra bed at an infection clinic or dislocated wards in the nursing homes. As early as March or April, we recommended that you take action for God's sake, that we establish hospital care where possible for people with or who are infected with covido-19. If not, let's find at least dislocated capacities. And you didn't even move for it. Of course, then you didn't even get around to declaring the epidemic because it was a waste of money for medical workers. However, we watched and heard a few months earlier the overflights of military aircraft celebrating the victory over an epidemic that was not and with which the government of Janez Janša had nothing else to do with but pick up commissions on supplied masks and fans that were useless for use on covido-19 patients and ended up in the cellars of UKC and elsewhere. Then it was necessary to get new ones for the second wave on the nose. But for this government, that's all right until her friends make good money. In addition, we propose to address another critical subsystem, which is similar to health care, similar to the care of the elderly at the direct stroke of government incompetence, this is the education subsystem, the entire school vertical, which has proved to be in spite of the efforts and efforts of all employees as desperately unprepared to have the Janez Janša government pass through such or different working regimes from day to day, and that it does not have the technological infrastructure ready and organisational backstopping to operate within the epidemic. However, the government whistled at it just as School Minister Kustec Lipicer whistled at wearing the mask. These amendments, the whole set of them, which address the difficulties of education, bring together a number of different problems, amounting to €90 million. This is what we do next. This money concerns additional temporary employment of administrative, technical and professional staff throughout the vertical area. This also provides funding for the work of students, other co-workers who are urgently needed to strengthen the school system in epidemic situations. This would come to about €50 million. The question of information infrastructure, the purchase of computers, cameras, software, that students have an internet connection, that students and students have the possibility of any study at home – 22 million euros. Personal security equipment, facial masks, disinfection, viziers and other for all students, students, for all employees, from kindergartens to universities – 12 million euros. And for additional professional assistance to students and students who, due to poor material and social conditions in the family, do not have any opportunity to really pull anything smart out of the adjusted educational process, 6 million Euros are allocated for this. At this point in time it is like social networking, on Facebook I can read every day a new publication and some new information that this or that charity collects used computers for this or that child in primary school, in high school, I have also seen applications for students. But the government doesn't care about Janez Janša. And for this ignorance of the key subsystem in the country, to such a key subsystem in the country as education, we are trying to take care of the opposition with a series of amendments and strengthen this area with €90 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, President. In the draft budget ahead of us, the Government is proposing a substantial increase in the expenditure of the country. I must say that I support the resolution of this crisis with the help of the State. The state has now proved to be a necessary institution. This means moving away from the former, from belief in the neoliberal economic holy Trinity — privatisation, deregulation and less country. It's the style of theological sacred three. And this world of three turned out to be a dead end and a dead end after 2008. It was then that the country had to spend as little as possible, and it splintered, if I say so at home, on social transfers, on wages, on pensions, which led to a recession. However, we must be aware that any increase in expenditure without a simultaneous increase in revenue is an additional debt, and this is happening to us. Today, it has been repeatedly pointed out that the revenues expected from Europe to the budget are in the air. The actual calculation showed that these revenues, which will be irrevocable, are not more than 2.2 billion. But it turns out they're in the air right now. The projections for the next two years also suggest a reduction in the deficit, but these projections, as we can see, are on very sharp, small legs. In fact, we are now recording a record deficit, already now, of the state budget and a record deficit of public debt. That's the problem. As we grow, if debt is largely abroad, it depends on us. You need to know, in the world, that in a recent era, there is no longer taking over countries or subjugating countries by means of the military, taking over territory, but doing so in a financial way, the countries are financially subordinated and exhausted. I am a little older here and I am now experiencing the third indebtedness of the country or country of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia. The former ones — once before we went into independence — we also lived in a community of Yugoslavia, where we had our independence, but not monetary, partly fiscal, but we were not independent. That country was in charge then. In order to get the money to extend her debts, she had to listen to the international fund, she had to make certain moves, all of which led the country into crisis. Nationalism grew in the crisis, and contradictions grew, leading to a rather bloody decay. We went out first, we were happy, we were all looking forward, we were optimistic about how we were going to drive, but the rest is not nice. But do you know how long we inherited from Yugoslavia when he split up because she was so indebted? Who knows? Interesting information: $4.2 billion, which was 15% on GDP, on our gross social product. We're at 82% now. But we picked up from that, we would say, rotten societies, as we sometimes like to talk through our parents, our moms, our dads, who we built a community at the time -- we built a fund, we built a fund, we did things -- and it was actually just, it was below 15% of the debt. This debt then grew slightly in Slovenia, the one, the third, but by no means did we go in the first years when the old structure led, the old directors, was an old way of managing, over 30%. Despite the war, even though we lost our markets, we still had such a good time. Look, we could learn something from this. Seriously. I know, when we separated from Yugoslavia, we were damn happy, all optimistic, but unfortunately we fell out when we went out, unfortunately we followed the instructions of the foreign financial world. And with the help of domestic compatriots who are by definition working for the benefit of foreigners, we have, for example, granted management privileges to PDUs, these authorised management companies that have gone into retail. Now some of the holding companies have come up, some things, but speculation has grown. When they've taken this new form of doing some company, running the economy, when they've taken over this, I'll say, speculative – speculation is that you get something, you win the business, you become the owner, and then you sell it for more money. This happens to us daily, you can read it, and recently there was an article where Tuš moved, what fate individual companies would experience, where it would go, where it would go. It's just that these resells happen. Property changes. But when this speculation reigned – again I say, this is my little pain – we have committed ourselves, Slovenia as a whole. At the time of Janez Janša's first government, 2004-2008, we owed ourselves a total debt of 17 billion to 43 billion. And then it had to be kind of socialized, rehabilitated, or even more banks would collapse. We had to sell banks, companies were forced to sell those things. One pile followed, therefore, a period of dry cows for seven years before the budget continued. [[…]] And now we're back in charge. Now we're increasing our debt again, and that's why we have to be [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] What is it? Was I bothering you? President, may I speak or may I not speak? Can he stop me? [[advertising from the hall]] It's not me. I don't burn much. Let me tell you, I just want to say some things, and it's a bad thing to be in debt. Because see, this is what happens to us that foreigners take over domination, even over the construction of different objects. Since they can't have a fracking at home, they'll have it in Prekmurje. Shops, banks, insurance companies, which are good in foreign hands, also determine their criteria, dictate their terms. This is really happening to us, and we really need to think about our sovereignty, and we need to stop, we need to be careful how much we owe, where we owe ourselves. When the SAB party proposed infrastructure investments to go into debt to make an infrastructure fund, that is to say, to be in debt at home, which is much safer – because we know that Slovenians have 24 billion deposits, so much so now if we offer them some minimum profitability, we could move on. But again, as I said at the outset: I welcome this debt and the resolution of both the social and economic sectors as well as companies. Although some things are wrong, we did the wrong thing, and you didn't listen to the opposition, the ruling coalition. But it's the right direction. The country, the role of the state, is that once things are broken, it can also be indebted. But it is wiser to be in debt on the domestic market than on a foreign market. I didn't like the debate today. I think that we are already already in crisis, some very aggressive communication and the interruption of speakers and the attack of some, others, also me at this point because I am speaking the right numbers, which I can support in measure, is not right. Because this is causing further frustration and leads us instead to a creative dialogue of conflict and the cheering mentality of cheering for our own and for others we see everything wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, would you like a word? [[Yeah.]] You have the floor, Mrs. Stebly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! I regret, however, that most of the Members who have now asked questions are not here, so I would start with Mr Cigler or with some concrete information on what has been raised during the debate, I do not know, insufficient funding for basic education, pre-school education. I think it is clear from these figures in this budget that these funds are increasing. For example, in the area of basic education, 958 million were foreseen in the budget balance, with the changes in the budget for 2021, this amount is increasing to over a billion and then increases slightly in 2022. Similarly in pre-school education, of course in substantially smaller frameworks, but for example in the rebalancing, a little less than 24 million were foreseen, while changes in the budget for 2021 already foreseen around 29, slightly over 29 million euros. Of course, most of the investments here are at the municipal level, as far as this is concerned, but it is also an important increase in co-financing from the state level. After maybe just getting attached or you didn't point that out directly, the other Members are, but because I'm in the field of primary education. [[…]] It was also highlighted, for example, that it was financed, I don't know, by the Institute of St. Stanislav, the Institute of Slomšk. I would just like to point out here that these two institutions, and some others, such as the Montessora Institute and similar stories, are part of the public network of primary education. And I would like to say -- well, the numbers probably hold, if they're published in the era, I didn't go to check them now, but -- the fact is that, let's say, these institutions are paid for 85% of their work programme, but they don't get anything for investments, which means they get 85% of the state-approved public programme, which, of course, is in line with all the guidelines that this country gives in the field of education. So much possible on this segment. Then there were quite a few questions about the recovery plan. I think this has already been said today, but I may be stressing again. What has now been communicated with the European Commission has been communicated at technical level. These were drafts of work, there is no rejection by the European Commission, because of course the document is not that far off. This may be comparable, if I say so, with the harmonisation of legislative proposals within the government procedure. Of course it's not exactly the same, but let's say it's Of course they're screwing opinions, of course they're drinking a document, but you need to know that Slovenia is not the only one who hasn't given a complete document away from it. [[…]] The Fund for Recovery and Resistance has completely different rules or rules that are not yet fully met, but it is now crystallizing mainly what it will be like. And of course, most countries, not to say everything in a row, are kind of trying to figure out how to prepare this document now. This is not the same as the previous cohesion spending frameworks, the rules are slightly different and coordination is very intensive at a purely technical level. Therefore, in this connection, the emphasis is once again on why the Ministry of Finance has reserved so much money for, I don't know, science policy, entrepreneurship, environmental protection – for a similar reason as in the past. Usually, cohesion policy funds were planned at the RS Government Development and Cohesion Policy Service. As long as these are just plans, as long as you want, which is probably closer to you, some of the priority axes in cohesion policy, these matters are mainly planned under the SVRK. Under the Recovery and Resistance Fund, a decision has been taken within the Government that these, so to speak, will be planned in the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, these key guidelines, which should also be based on this document, are the real support for science, the green, I don't know, technological development, just some framework numbers that are now envisaged, but cannot be exactly distributed. If you want, these are some record projects. As far as intransparency is concerned. It has been pointed out that there is no telling what the government will spend some 2 billion 200 on. I think there's been a lot of communication about these numbers. We have just sent back some information to the press today, and I am sure you have already tracked it, but for all of these anti-korona packages that we have already adopted this year, over €700 has been paid, of which €300 million has been temporarily waiting for work, about 600 million contributions to social security and disability insurance, both from those on hold and from those who have been at work. Then about 200 million extras for danger. Of course, most of this supplement got staff in health care and nursing homes, so I think there really shouldn't be any dilemma here that this money was not properly spent. Then I don't know, tourist vouchers, about 128 million already had that money. Just these larger numbers, I don't know, 67 million solidarity supplements for pensioners, I'm not going to read all the numbers, because I'm sure you've already seen them in the media, but I just want to say that it doesn't exactly hold that this is a non-transparent consumption. In addition, we have reported all transfers this year. I am sorry, and last time there was little surprise on the Committee on Finance, when we brought the last two reports, for August and September, that there was no debate. But I only hope that this means that it was clearly shown enough because the government's conclusions were attached to why these funds were being used. Also in the future, see, these 500 million that are still foreseen in 2021 within the Ministry of Finance – logic is similar to all other reserves. The so-called current budget reserve is also provided for in the Ministry of Finance. It is just that there is now some assessment of how much more these anti-Korona packages will be, to say the least, difficult, but it is not entirely clear which measures will be implemented more quickly, which will be slower. That's why it's here. And I think that from all the reports that we are going to submit, we will see exactly – I am sure that journalists will ask as much as they do a month ago – how much money is spent on individual measures. I don't think there should be any problem with the transparency of spending. So many maybe just around these specific numbers. Aya, even the nursing homes were exposed. Here, too, I think it is clearly seen in the third part of the budget, if not elsewhere, that is to say with 8 million and half as much as it is for the long-term care provided this year – you know that in this year certain investments could not be made because of the situation that they were, and that is why in 2021 more than 24 million are earmarked for long-term care. Primarily for certain investments in this area, which we know are indeed necessary. Maybe just that much, to back up a few more numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greeting, distinguished Madam Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Procedurally, Mr President, perhaps only you, if you can speak a little louder because you are very badly heard in the Chamber. Now for the debate on budget 2021. I myself support the resolution of the crisis with the help of the state, because, last but not least, we have a country. The budget is definitely a fundamental act, a fundamental plan where we will put money in this country. Just like we have at home, in our home, a plan for what we're going to buy next year. And that's basically it. The fact is, we're going to be in debt. And if we're honest with you, my grandchildren will pay those debts. That's just the way it is, and that's the fact. This is something that needs to be talked about out loud. The budget or budget 2021 or 2022 is not good. That is what we believe in the opposition, so in opposition to both budgets, we tabled words and write 99 amendments. 99 amendments. Apparently, none of these billions of puffs are good enough, I'm afraid. That's something that makes me very sad. Why? Because, as early as yesterday, the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, spoke about cooperation, that we must step together, that we must stick together in these difficult times, which I fully agree with. But you know what the problem is? That a coalition composed of SDS, SMC, Desus and NSI, as a cylindrical roller, overruns everything but everything the opposition proposes. That makes me sad. In this action of yours, those words of Mr Janez Janša are a mockery to all of us who are sitting here, to all of us who are trying to improve these budgets, to all of our professional colleagues who work days and days and weekends to make these budgets, this plan, how we will spend the money we all give in the same little, better. So those words are just a bluff. That was an introduction. As you know, I come from Maribor. In Maribor, in the second largest city in Slovenia, we have a city municipality that is underfunded, which means at home that the country imposes on it almost 30 million jobs a year more than it gives it money. The municipality of Maribor must do these mandatory tasks and also finance them. How can he fund them? Yes, because it does not have to give money for its investments, which it would otherwise spend on investments, for those mandatory tasks entrusted to it by the State. And then he runs out of investments. It's very simple, that's what every man understands. You just have to put it somewhere else, not where it's more necessary. That is why I was also counting on the Government to include some vital projects for Maribor in these two budgets. Well, of course I was wrong. And then there was the Finance Committee, where the coalition roller overrun all 99 amendments with ease. And when a person reads the explanations, he can get angry. But because we are connected in the opposition and because we are holding together, of course, we will once again vote on these 99 amendments. Because we weren't surprised when the coalition cylindrical overrun all the amendments. What amendments, which are very important for Maribor, have I tabled on my own or with the help of all opposition partners? The first is the amendment for the renovation of the sports hall of Tabor, to increase the number of seats, new wardrobes, new sanitary facilities, stands, business premises and complete energy rehabilitation. In fact, Maribor, as the second largest Slovenian city, cannot survive, listen to this now very well, not a single hall that meets European competition standards at the highest level. Maribor is the second largest city in this country. That is why I hoped that this project would be classified by the Government as more important projects, but unfortunately I was wrong. Then here's the next project. This is the so-called Maribor Library or the Centre Rotovž, as it is called. It is an innovative centre aimed at the promotion of books, education, culture and digitalisation. This is because, of course, if we are to have educated people, we must also give them adequate infrastructure. In Maribor we want educated people and in Maribor we want young people to stay. Unfortunately, however, this project has also been rejected by the coalition. However, it is necessary to correct and say that in this project the Municipality of Maribor or Mayor of Maribor also has to do its part. That's what needs to be said, too. However, I would like the country, as such, to recognise this project as an important project for Maribor. Then there's the third project. It is the arrangement of the transport tourist infrastructure in the tourist destination Ribniško Pohorje, specifically for the construction of the cable link between Ribnica on Pohorje and Pesnik. I probably don't have to explain about Pohori. The mountains take over 16 congregations, all the way up to Koroška. In Slovenia we decided to go tourism, to go boutique, green tourism. However, we need cable, road and cycling infrastructure for this, if we cannot go there. And this is where the state needs help. That's why we have a country. What happened? The coalition did not support this project either. Then let's move on. Amendments to the Health Station Tesno have also been tabled. I've already talked about these projects in the balance. We have the current biggest health crisis in the history of this country, and at Health Station Tezno time stopped in 1980 and people at the front door are standing in a decaying building where, of course, they are being treated by friendly doctors from the public sector in completely inadequate premises. And since this government is talking a lot about this health crisis, I expected this project to be on the list because it is important to the government. Unfortunately, however, I was wrong because this project was not supported by the coalition on the financial committee either. UKC Maribor, the second largest hospital in the country. I will not begin to explain how much money is spent by UKC Ljubljana and how much UKC Maribor, but I must tell you that in the northeastern part of Slovenia we feel second-rated and we can easily prove it with numbers. I hope that at least the infectious hospital will be transferred, that the things we started in the government of Marjana Sharca will continue. I hope so. I myself – to finish slowly so that I do not spend too much time with my colleagues – I have absolutely nothing against the new museums that we will get in Slovenia, but it would be very nice for Maribor to get what it belongs to Maribor. And that northeastern Slovenia would get what belongs to people living in northeastern Slovenia. Because we all pay in the same budget. It's identical. But some get more, some get nothing. And if that's what the opposition's suggesting, obviously we don't get anything. Therefore, a respected coalition, SDS, SMC, Desus and NSI, I invite you to move from words to actions. Because no one's gonna be sick of words. The actions of the so-called decentralisation you're talking about. But from words to actions. Unfortunately, the budgets you have proposed do not reflect these words on decentralisation. At least I want to be heard by the MEPs from Maribor who are coming and who are in the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that, President. That's a nice greeting, Secretary of State! Messengers and Messengers, too! I will focus my debate more on the so-called general part of the budget. Just a few words for the intro, and then I'll be back to this opening part for a while. But since we are talking about the budget for 2021, I believe it is only essential to say the essence of the introduction. The budget for 2021, as a result of 2022, will be defined only in four points. The first are so-called investment investments, and these investment investments include both state infrastructure projects and municipalities. The second category is concern for people. This means that the budget is more or less socially oriented. The third is the concern for the economy, which is still important. And fourth, a deviation from the fiscal rule. I am in the position that these are the foundations on which, as we say, the budget 2021, 2022 is based. More about this is certain in the course of my debate. Surely, those who have listened to the debate so far know that many times the debt, including the Fiscal Council or the related fiscal rule, has been mentioned, and these two areas will be discussed below. But what I said in the beginning, some so-called introductory words. Each time, the government is entrusted with running the country. I hope that, if I may say so, all members of this well-respected national assembly agree with the dictatorship or definition. The fact is that the budget, in this case the Republic of Slovenia, is practically a legal act or one of the most important acts of the State prepared by the Government and indicates the direction or policy of its activity, which is generally consistent with its activity in the coming period and which is generally consistent with the coalition contract of the parties to the coalition. However, it is important to make it very clear that the draft budget for 2021, and, of course, because it relates, even for 2022, is marked by the so-called exceptional circumstance that is present between us and we know it as covid-19. The fact is that the opposition has the legitimate right to report to the budget, in this case for 2021, that it does not have the right path or to set its own structure and priorities for the following year. There's no evidence here, that's what the opposition is for. But it is a fact and we simply need to realize that we have the government of John Janša at this moment, and we must all accept it. As far as the debate is concerned. At least in some it was very clear that there were no beds in nursing homes, no hospital facilities, and so on. However, in this context, I must make it very clear: from 2012 to today, 2020, eight years ago, I could say that there was no Janez Janša coalition and many of these coalitions could have done in 10 years or eight years, but they did not. But now, at the time of this epidemic, all this lack on these forces of important elements for society is expected and evident, but I do not think it is right. For these things have not been done for a decade. So I can humbly say, however it may sound, a convenient political rhetoric at this appropriate time. To somehow get back to the debate itself, as far as the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is concerned. The composition of the budget for 2021 must also be affected by the European Commission's opinion. There was little mention of this in today's debate, so I will allow myself a few words. The European Commission is aware of the financial and economic conditions in which virtually all the Member States of the European Union have been affected by this epidemic since the epidemic. Therefore, the European Commission is not so strict in controlling the members of the European Union's financial guidelines and allows Member States to temporarily deviate from the financial rules or from the medium-term balance of finances that apply at European Union level. In these emergency situations, fiscal rules resulting from the Stability and Growth Pact at European Union level allow for deviations from fiscal rules in order to respond quickly to the situation. Here I must admit that I am pleased that the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with this view or very similar. If I'm still with the European Commission. During the period of the crisis caused by this epidemic, Member States are allowed financial injections and emergency measures to help their economy survive this unannounced economic shock, including by increasing financial debt to countries, if necessary. Certainly, a few words are needed in this regard regarding the fiscal rule, which must have made the members of the Committee on Finance much more aware than others who are not members of the Committee on Finance. The Fiscal Council of the Republic of Slovenia notes that, according to the known data and available forecasts, at the time of the preparation of the budget for 2021, I will also refer to 2022, both conditions under Article 12 of the Fiscal Rule Law allowing for exceptional circumstances and thus a temporary derogation from the medium-term balance of public finances. For 2021, it was made clear by the President of the Fiscal Council that at least one of the two legal conditions has been met and for 2022 there is considerable uncertainty and it is difficult to predict in any way. As far as these unknowns are concerned and clearly the risks involved. A consistent cost-sharing for cod and other incomes in the country, which was a controversial debate on the home committee. I am also in the position that this makes sense, but for the successful suppression of the covida-19 they appear – and this was made very clear by the Minister of Finance – so-called direct and indirect costs. In particular, the latter, the indirect costs are said to be very intertwined in a number of cases with various government aid or intervention measures in this epidemic. Here I must admit that I have been pleased and follow the statement made by the Minister of Finance, who said in his debate that it is indeed working in this area and that it will be even more transparent and that it will be established to show all expenditure on the cost of solving the covida-19 crisis. I must admit, I am also a great advocate of fiscal rules. As is known, in the National Assembly, we also received it years ago. However, all those who are in favour of this fiscal rule are aware of the current situations or facts that are affected by these changed and unusual circumstances and, as has already been mentioned many times, the epidemic itself. And as I mentioned earlier, not only the Fiscal Council, but also the European Commission allows a derogation from this strict fiscal rule, it comes from Article 12 and is also expressed in the Stability Pact. As for what I mentioned in the introduction, debt. A few words or many were spoken, at least by the opposition, why such indebtedness is needed and to such an extent. I'm kind of structured into three groups. The first is the so-called investment activity in the Republic of Slovenia, I am pleased that also by the opposition Members and Members there is the favour that the state, in this case the Government, the Ministry of Finance, has decided to take the first place in the so-called budget structure for the years 2021 and 2022. The second group is the repayment of the debt and third group’s budget reserve formation. I have to repeat myself here, and I have also discussed this subject on the home Finance Committee. The excellent ratings of the Republic of Slovenia in the world capital markets literally force it, if I can say so in good faith, the Republic of Slovenia to be indebted, under such favourable conditions of indebtedness. I myself firmly believe that a good master is responsible when the most favourable conditions exist on the global financial market, as I mentioned. What I would like to mention in this regard is the following. As I mentioned, debt, especially for the creation of the budget reserve, was very few words from the debaters, so I should mention that too. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also created a large enough budget reserve for debt, which will allow for any deterioration in the situation and the adoption of all necessary measures to prevent economic damage and deterioration of the situation of people. In this debate, which is related to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, I have another matter to touch on, namely, the correctness and effectiveness of the Government measures of the Republic of Slovenia confirms Slovenia's favourable position on the global economic markets. This is based on the following facts. First of all: the return of the 10-year bond of the Republic of Slovenia on financial markets is negative. The correctness and effectiveness of government measures to preserve jobs and to promote investment literally confirms a favourable position, as I have already mentioned, in the so-called capital markets. Second, what is important to the Republic of Slovenia at this time: the confidence of investors in the Republic of Slovenia and the willingness to invest in state bonds after extremely low returns are due to effective measures by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the fight against the covida-19 epidemic. And third, which is not often heard in this national council: the favourable position in capital markets also strengthens the validation of credit ratings, as I mentioned earlier, by credit rating agencies. If I'm specific. Moody's credit rating agency increased Slovenia's rating to A3 in October and gave her stable prospects. This agency has thus confirmed that Slovenia remains a credible country as an investor in these difficult times. As credit rating agencies in these times lower or maintain rating countries, Slovenia ranks among the most reliable countries as foreign investors, and this is still important. On the basis of the above, if I may say so, the evidentiary facts of the debate of the opposition Members are misleading and, in individual cases, I must admit that they were even misleading. As the opposition in this National Assembly has consistently argued that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not been successful in these unstable times since March of this year, the credit ratings of the credit rating agencies speak differently, it is said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has successfully responded to these precarious circumstances, conditioned by covido-19. And it is precisely the credit rating of the Republic of Slovenia that is the actual indicator of the conflict, if I may say so, with the economic crisis. The global financial markets are a relevant indicator of the confidence of investors, foreign and domestic, in the Republic of Slovenia. And if I do it again. Credit rating agencies providing credit ratings are a key factor in the country's indebtedness, in which case the Republic of Slovenia or any country in the world should be a key factor. That is why I think it is right that this has been particularly exposed, since many political debates do not wish to say what is good for the Republic of Slovenia. In the final part, I must also touch on the areas of investment itself. The state budget for 2021 as well as 2022 practically strengthens investment spending in particular. And in the areas, as has already been mentioned several times, road, rail infrastructure, health care, long-term care, the environment. It is also necessary to replace the so-called development backlogs and to allow for the development of the whole country to be as equitable as possible. Why am I exposing this? In particular, because investment activity is indeed an important element in the recovery and strengthening of the responsibility of the economy, this therefore also means job creation. I therefore believe that the budget for 2021 is suitable for adoption. Here I must admit what has not yet been mentioned in this National Assembly, and this is also accompanied by the opinion of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Chairman. When I listened to or listened to the Minister today when he presented the budget documents or budget 2021, I was kind of surprised to see one last-minute change. With numerous warnings on the sustainability of the budgetary documents for the long-term balance of public finances, the Fiscal Council gradually tightened its rhetoric in its budgets and, in the end, merely made a clear request to the Government to draw up a plan for the long-term sustainability and balance of public finances. Of course, we also warned the Fiscal Council through the meetings we had or were present at. It is encouraging for the Minister of Finance to tell us today in the National Assembly and, of course, to the public that you will prepare such a document. Yes, we very much expect him, after all, he should be here at the table today and should be treated in parallel. On the other hand, I'm surprised by the following. In my position on the update of the budget 2021, 2022, I listened to my colleague Robert Polnar, who spoke about the three errors of the Fiscal Council. Listen – error. With regard to the error of public financial sustainability, the fiscal world's error in limiting public debt by means of a so-called golden financial rule, as well as errors in the internal indebtedness of the state. That is said, for the President of the Committee on Finance, what the Fiscal Council points out is delusional. It sets the example of the most indebted countries in Europe, Italy, Spain, France, Portugal, Greece. Two of these countries even, Slovenia, had to help financially survive without going bankrupt. If the Fiscal Council has been called a delusion, in my opinion – my opinion, I stress – the comparison of colleague Polnar is at least inappropriate and, in my opinion, unrealistic. As important for the personal debt, the debt of the family, the debt of the company, the debt of the municipality, it is also important for the country to see the light in the tunnel, so that it can once repay the debt at least proportionally with the ability to ensure growth, so that not all the growth in real income over expenditure will have to be devoted only to repaying the debt. This is what I think is so important because we know what happens to businesses, private people and municipalities if they do not respect this rule. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am seriously concerned about this indebtedness of the state sector, the budget itself and also of the pension, health and cash and treasury municipalities. It is quite clear to me that, at the time of the epidemic and the measures that plague the economy, we are witnessing lower incomes today in the state health care, pension allowance and treasury municipalities. It is clear to me that we need to implement targeted measures to help a population that is out of work and income, that we need to help the economy, as well as the public institutions, and all others who have not been or are not provided with income at this time due to the epidemic. Above all, it is clear to me that in this situation we need to strengthen the health care that has been expected to be so nourished by the epidemic, both with the necessary equipment and with human resources. Indirectly, there is also the issue of putting more work and putting itself at risk, especially in health care and elsewhere. So I wonder why, even in 2021, such a deficit is shown, why did you plan to do so, but if, on the other hand, from your documents, the decree shows that in 2021, GDP is already higher, it is said to be already 48 billion 818 and reached 2019 was 48 billion 007. This is said to be a significant increase and incomes should somehow follow. I know, well, what kind of tax on the income of legal persons can be in hindsight, but everything else is somehow related to traffic itself, which we also create with GDP. Gross debt rose from 31 billion 744 to 39 billion 495. On the other hand, we can read from the same decree – well, we only have information by 23 September 2020 – that now billions and 596 million have been spent on covid-19 measures. Of course, weekly or even daily, these numbers change then, but I'm saying that man is concerned about why he's so long, and I'm going to say some things below. This is said to be why such a deficit is then, if revenue is planned to be higher than it was achieved in 2019 and, of course, expenditure is higher, for all ministries. There is also a significant increase in investments, which should, according to your explanations, be covered by funds from the European Union funds amounting to as much as 12 billion over the next seven years. It is also likely that investments to arm the military and some that I think are now unnecessary or should not be planned in a crisis situation such as the one we are in. In all this, it should also be noted that the funds from the European Union's mechanisms do not just fall into the state treasury. This is how people understand about the spins you give to the public – that you have achieved the greatest profit in history, as far as these funds are concerned from the European Union. Of course, forget to say that all countries have achieved more, but not half of these funds are non-refundable, and forget to say then that the European Union’s cash register must then be paid, that is to say, then the net recovery of grants is not even 3 billion in these seven years. Of course, it is necessary to benefit from these funds, including concrete programmes for a long-term coordinated vision of the country's development, which is very important. This must also be followed by the economy as a public sector, and we must all drive the car in one direction or another. Do we have this vision in the long run, of course? This issue has been raised many times by other Members today, and the Fiscal Council has somehow pointed to it. If we look at if this vision is only short-term, for a short-term rule, then we lose direction in each such change of government and, of course, such means do not produce the effects we would expect. So why such a deficit? Is it an unbalanced budget where, I emphasise, current revenues do not cover current expenditure, because they have all received more, not just because of covids? Of course, because you have made it clear several times that everyone has received more in these budgets. You've set the counter significantly higher. What about income? I'm asking. Why doesn't the income follow this? For this is the essence of a coordinated budget or public finances. With such a counter, it is clear, of course, that the budget deficit will continue to accompany Slovenia for years, until the value-added economy – because it generates taxes on budgets, cash-flows – reaches expenditure or expenditure. Now I'm going to go to the political area, and don't mind if I mention someone. But today it has been said so many times that this opposition does not take part. I have to, look, somehow they came from behind certain things that I can't possibly forget. So much has been pointed out by the government of Marjana Sharca for the 2018, 2019 budget and also for the planned budgets adopted for 2020 and 2021, to the long-term sustainability of public finances, to the need for surpluses, to the need to reduce debt. You even wrote down a constitutional charge for the most successful budget in Slovenia. Even then, all those who lost after Zuyph received more. Not everything else, but as much as the economy created and ran money into state cash registers. They received more pensioners, public servants, including the congregations, we raised the minimum wage to raise the poverty threshold to live solidly, and of course also that people on a slightly higher salary later would enjoy a slightly higher pension. We raised the untaxed regression and took care of the reduction of public debt, even by 620 million, and created even an surplus, 0.5% of GDP or 225 million for 2019. Nevertheless, at the time, serious criticism and the opposition with the first-signed current Minister of Finance even filed a constitutional sentence. [[Lapsus linguae. A constitutional conviction instead of a constitutional indictment, to which Joseph Horvat further responds.]] I'm not the first to say this, but look, you can't forget such things, even in the face of today's events. Now I would like to say one case that still rings in my ears, in spite of the debate by my esteemed colleague, Joseph Horvath. And don't mind me saying, buddy, that now I'm going to read one of your quotes that says so. By the way, I also pulled it off your website, from that time on, more than an apology, because you're reading so much to us today that we're not cooperating, that we're criticizing, and if this is heard, then I think what we're alerting is justified. Look, you said: "In this place, I would like to draw attention to the debt of the central state, which is on 31st day. 1. 2019 amounts to EUR 30 billion 681 million. That's a billion 500 million euros over 31. 12. 2018 represents 63.2 % of GDP.’ You go on to say: “We will pay back 100 more years. The simple conclusion is that we live at the expense of our descendants. When will Slovenia be able to pay off a good 30 billion euro capital and interest on the surface? At Sarec & Left Dynamics over 100 years! And when we realize that we live at the expense of our children and our children's children, we run into a moral issue. The headless spending of public money and thus the purchase of public support, which will soon break like a soap bubble, indicates economic gambling, constitutional gambling, social gambling and the moral gambling of Charcève's peter and Levi'. End of quote. Excuse me, Comrade Jože, you are not the only one, but this case is the only one I have left, and it occurred to me in the middle of today's session, when there was so much criticism, and I highlighted it, but of course there could be someone else. I speak because, of course, at the time you criticized us and spoke so populistly, today the situation is completely different. I personally understand, as I initially said, that some of the duties are increasing, but as the opposition, we must also be critical. But criticism must be constructive, it must be clearly stated, even with certain solutions. And I'll try to pass them on, too, if that's what you're going to understand. Of course, at that time this criticism of yours helped, if I take a little bit into the jargon, and that year, as I said before, many of those with the smallest income received more and even part of the public debt, exactly 620 million, we returned. But there were, of course, other times, as well as economic growth and everything. But we know, when you're doing well, you have to store, save, and with some sense of giving more, of course, for the purpose of fiscal sustainability. And this is what I think we started in 2018, 2019 and also, as far as 2020 is concerned. I don't think there's anything to read here, although there's quite a few readings here on your side in that sense. Yes, how now, colleagues and colleagues, a respected secretary? The minister is not here, of course the government is, because probably someone else will hear those words. Now is the time when the opposition can warn this government with such rhetoric. Anyway, I personally won't be like this, but I'm going to try to somehow justify every matter as much as I can. Debt increases from 31 billion in 2019 in three years to 41 billion, good 10 billion to 2022, if the budget documents were optimistically put in place at all – and we know, according to the forecast, that it is difficult – otherwise this debt will be even higher. That's why I warned you earlier how much we've spent on the co-worker this year. Somehow I don't think it's necessary to have an 11 billion debt. Therefore, the well-respected minister, the government — how, when, and who will repay this public debt? I also gave this question to the Minister orally yesterday. Where is your debt recovery projection in the budget documents? Maybe you're putting this on the next government, maybe next generation? Otherwise, today, the minister replied that, as far as this was concerned, this matter would also be referred to the Commission itself, Dr. Krkuk. I hope that as soon as possible we can sleep more quietly, what the future holds for us. If I keep going. The last debt from the times of Austro-Hungarian Slovenia paid only in this millennium, a few years ago. This is also – I don't know exactly what year, but – I remember Minister Andre Bertoncl, that even when we made the budget documents, I think that for 2020, 2021, we were accepted, that he then saw it. If the farm owner owes his economy all the time and transfers it to the young master, the question is, of course, whether the young economy will take over such an economy or not and go looking for better living conditions elsewhere. And that's what's happening. This is also the case in Slovenia. Young people wonder whether, in such a management, a government policy that does not guarantee the real future brings uncertainty and is worth insisting on, if the world is so wide and brings completely different challenges. I'm not just talking about this government, even the wider, long-term, because we know that young people are leaving. But I am speaking because we should stop this practice and be more transparent, so that young people can trust us more. You know, the well-respected minister and the whole government, young people are, of course, educated, viewed, have all the information, and when they accompany the current government, these intransparencies, misbehaviors, children's deceptions – they are, of course, arguing with us, accusations, and in the end it is also a matter of disrespect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, not to talk about other matters that we have experienced in this national assembly, which, of course, undermines this democracy – of course, many young people will leave our beautiful country in the future and create where they value and respect it. Those who remain are silently observing parents, politicians who decide on their behalf and fight the battle of domination between the two sides and for more kindergartens within. But new bank holes and public debt are growing, a respected government, and that is the fact that we should stop as soon as possible. Now I'm going to try another area that I'm also very interested in and that I know a little bit better. For two years now, I have been monitoring the health sector, by the legislator, or, if I say politics, if this is heard more widely, I would also like to say the following. I am aware that 45 per cent of the value added in terms of our neighbouring Austria, which reaches the added value of as much as €103,000 per employee – we know that about 47 000 – is lower for the same amount of pay in health care, and that much less runs into health treasury. However, this is somehow still covered, and on the other hand, we know if we have to build hospitals, buy expensive healthcare equipment, if we want to buy drugs, but the prices are similar, and if we create more than half of them, then we can't afford it all. I am personally aware of this, and sometimes, when I listen to that too, forgive the expression, in sayings, as we say to politicians, "beating," it really bothers me, because this is the reality that we need to know, but that's terrible, that's terrible. However, countries that generate half the added value as we do, say Macedonia, Serbia, Bosnia and so on, are probably able to afford even less and this standard is even lower. But I want to draw attention to something else: why don't we use better organizations in health care, why can't we look for internal reserves? I therefore appeal to the Government or the competent ministry to approach the issue and address it in a comprehensive manner, as regards the internal organisation, and I would like to think about it as an urgent upgrade and connectivity of health information systems that will, of course, function centrally. A good review of the health equipment and personnel network requires a central management-based judicial information system. Slovenia has already developed such an information system to a certain extent, we know that we have given the circus 35 or 38 million years ago – which we are already using – and this Ensign is in health the true evolution that we have achieved – and we also have a valuable CRPP, the Central Register of Patient Information, as the basis of the database for an effective central information system. We should build on this yesterday, not only in the future, in order to achieve rationalisation and transparency over the available capacities of health care, to remove bottlenecks or fill them, to monitor the burdens on public health institutions, activities, departments and also individual public health workers and concessionaires, all in order to increase health efficiency. This would achieve the financial savings that should be allocated to modern equipment, necessary investments and the remuneration of healthcare professionals. However, it is important in all this that we can help to relieve healthcare professionals, which is crucial, by redistributing patients, to rationally exploit capacities, and as essential to patients, thereby reducing waiting types. It's a condition to keep the medical staff at home. And important, look, that's why I was saying this — why am I saying this? The European Commission recommends and warns that in all areas, including health, reforms are needed, with rationalisations and better organisation of work, green and digital technology, as well as raising the productivity of the economy. So let's not just expect economies, we'll do as much as we can. And this ensures the financing of all social upgrade systems. In the face of the challenge of increasing demographic change, good accessibility of public services, of course through sustainable funding, will be very important in the future. This is the way in which countries that have a better rational health network today are taking a more transparent and efficient health system, as well as the satisfaction of patients and employees in health care. I'm afraid we don't know that. We're doing partial work, and that bothers me personally because we can't take advantage of what we already have. I'll give you an example so you won't tell me I'm just running a theory. This case is the Kranj Health House, which we followed in public last month. I can't say it's true, but unfortunately it's true. They have an ultrasound that hasn't been used in almost two years. And it has to be pointed out even by a patient who, because of, excuse me, a spilled appendix, so it was also said publicly, almost died. Yes, in February this year, the management of the healthcare home managed to obtain a specialist who can work with this ultrasound from Serbia, who is willing to come live and work in Slovenia. But look at our benign system, from February to today, the Ministry of Health could not meet a commission to decide whether a doctor from Serbia has all the necessary skills and permits, including knowledge of Slovenian language, of course, that he can work in Slovenia. From February to today, it has not been possible to meet in spite of all the decisions and I do not know what kind of swift measures. Even now you have shown somewhere – although I know that trucks have waited 14 days before for that department to be built in those 10 or 14 days, but for the public it has shown itself, but one shot for one such machine in health, if I say so, we cannot bring it in within a few months. It's despair. Even though patients are in danger at this time, the ultrasound is there, in Kranj, which is what? – third, fourth, fifth largest city in Slovenia. After all, how many more of these cases the Ministry or the Ministry does not know are untapped. It's not so small that we'll know. In just these three weeks, I have identified many of these cases that are still there, and if the Ministry or the Ministry had such a central information system, all such matters should be transparent, all should be determined and acted on. You keep asking us to cooperate. Yes, but we warn you all the time, we make suggestions, you hear them, and we don't. And you're also making some laws that, I'm going to say, we don't even know, we don't have a chance to discuss, and lately we have to adopt them quickly or not. I'll just give you one more case. Also for 2021 – and then I finish – I found a good case and put an amendment to the hospital Slovenj Gradec, a gamma camera that is 31 years old. It's like riding with an old fichot. Today the hospital travels these patients – that is to say, this gamma camera can work 36 different investigations, modern of course, this old, obsolete – to Maribor, to Celje, to Ljubljana and thus create waiting types. 2.5 million should be invested in this and Koroška would have this gamma camera and how many waiting types could only reduce with such a matter. This amendment, of course, simply rejects the Finance Committee because the coalition is so agreed that it will not accept anything useful. And that kind of thing saddens us. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State Kristina Šteblaj, dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, allow me to answer my esteemed colleague Jožet Lenart, whom I highly appreciate because he has very correct discussions. In this case he quoted very correctly the magnetogram of my debate, he read it accurately, unlike some of his, who, just these days in some madness, manipulated my statements when I quoted a former Yugoslav politician from Slovenia. Well, I have to say thank you, it was a great commercial for me, a good stunt, and all those who are sane understood what it was. I appreciate my colleague Jožet, because, above all, when it comes to budgetary discussions, he is actually very professionally justifying them. At this point, I can only continue by having a very pleasant conversation recently with Dr. Andre Bertonclje, who was the author of the budget documents for 2020, 2021. Of course, what we were talking about, we were talking, I can only say that it was an extremely nice conversation for me. He also said that every time we met, we had a very good conversation. Look, not least, we have to respect the policies of different political views. Not only are we first and only people. I could have continued here with regard to cooperation. We have offered and are still open doors to some cooperation agreement, as we call it now, and if this agreement were to be reached by any of the opposition parties, believe that this would also be reflected in the budget documents. Believe me. This is proved not least by the SNS party which has signed an agreement with the Government or with the coalition, and that is why we have also taken note of their amendments and supported them on the committee and will vote in favour of their amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly. But I am kind of glad in this debate that we are today, so on November 17th, certainly all in this Chamber at this point, that we do not understand anymore, which has not recently been such that the epidemic is a political issue. No, the epidemic is not a political issue, masks are not a political issue. A while ago, it was also presented in this hall that some understood this as a political issue. The matter is extremely serious, and if there was a little more cooperation, yes, I agree that if we would step together, as Dr. Anton Trstenjak said, there would certainly be less death. That's what we're talking about today. I was shaken by the mathematical models that I listened to by experts at the University of Ljubljana and Maribor, and I am only afraid that these predictions, which their mathematical models show, will also come true. Maybe just one more sentence on the constitutionality requirement. It wasn't a constitutional conviction, it was a lapsus, colleague of Jože Lenart. It was a constitutional requirement. We have honestly submitted it, and we now have at least some constitutional practice, as it is called, that we know that such cases as we have highlighted are in accordance with the Constitution. The fiscal rule is, of course, something new, and if anyone, then we are conservatives, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, even with regard to public finances, are conservative. We are listening to your observations and your concern about the increase in the country's debt, but no one has said that we should not be obliged to finance all the PKPs, anti-kronapackets, the one coming to the board next week, is about 1 billion. Then it must be said that it should not be that it is necessary to leave the economy and people to find themselves. No one among us, colleagues and colleagues, certainly disagrees with that. The country is made here, and the country is made to help people in such disasters. It helps. I am also always heartbroken if I say so when the state is in debt, but who is more easily in debt, or an individual or an economic operator, an undertaking or a country? We are, of course, concerned, very careful here that all this money that we borrow is focused as effectively as possible on helping people and helping the economy. It's about the fiscal rule again. We could be irresponsible as the opposition and say, we are not interested, we will not cooperate – but we are. Ask Dr. Marble, we sat together many times in our parliamentary group and instead of making a Swiss formula European, as he said, and we contributed our votes to the Fiscal Rule Act, which requires 60 votes according to the Constitution. What happened to the outbreak of the epidemic now? Perhaps first one European view, the European context on national budgets. The European Commission, ladies and gentlemen, in March this year, one week after our government swore as part of its rapid and coordinated response to the Corona pandemic, proposed the activation of the general withdrawal clause of the Stability and Growth Pact. The Stability and Growth Pact, this interstate agreement was signed by the Republic of Slovenia among the first, we were in the Government on 2 March 2012. The Council has confirmed the activation and the clause to the Member States, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia, allowing the adoption of measures to effectively manage the crisis, allowing them to deviate from the budgetary requirements normally applied under the European fiscal framework. The proposal is an important step in meeting the Commission's commitment to use all available economic policy instruments to support Member States in protecting their citizens and citizens and to mitigate the extremely negative socio-economic consequences of the pandemic. From this context, it is very important that, as I said, the European aspect of solving the crisis in which we found ourselves literally overnight. Let me just remind you of the thought of European Commission President Ursule von der Leyen, who said: "Today we are proposing the greatest possible flexibility of rules that will allow national governments to support all their healthcare systems, personnel and people who are so severely affected by the crisis. I want to ensure that the human and socio-economic dimension of the coronary pandemic will be responded to in the best possible way." End of quote. And now keep going. I admit that I was alone, and we Members of New Slovenia were initially disappointed with the European Union, generally said. We know that the fathers of Europe, after most Christian Democrats, have put it on strong pillars, one of the strongest pillars is solidarity. And when this European solidarity seemed to be dead, however, thank God, the European Union, the leaders of the Member States woke up and presented and adopted, negotiated the instruments that we are actually talking about all the time. Just yesterday, I can say it's good for our country, for our people. On yesterday, the European Commission paid €14 billion of financial support to nine EU Member States, including Slovenia, under the EU's job protection instrument SURE. Yes, we all know that these are not grants, but they are funds or loans that are very cheap. Slovenia has received EUR 200 million and the country has a total of EUR 1.1 billion under the instrument. This is good information for Slovenia, good information for the European Union. However, there are many measures, of course, to deal with the outbreak of coronary disease at the level of the European Union. The next EU Generation is support for the economy of the European Union. On 10 November, one week ago, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union, representing the Member States of the Union, reached a political agreement on the multiannual financial framework of the European Union for the period from 2021 to 2027. It's a thousand and 74 billion euros. And also on the new recovery instrument, this is Next Generation of the EU, 750 billion euros. Of course, this money will not just be a day on a platter to every Member State, it will not go through here and it will not go through and it must not go to a self-service trade. I am pleased to call today, above all, for reforms that are different from the opposition. Yes, that's what we've been saying, repeating: reforms, reforms, reforms. On different systems, health care, different subsystems, long-term care and so on. Why? We practically haven't made any reforms in the last 10 years, perhaps in fact, on any particular social subsystem. Not a single reform. Above all, in the area of health, especially in the area of long-term care, the European Commission has been warning us for several years. All the governments have looked away. Yeah, we haven't made any reforms in eight months either, we really haven't. In these eight months, we have not built a single home for the elderly, it is true. Finally, we built it in 2008 in this country, when this resort, the competent resort, was run by Nova Slovenije. You know our coalition treaty commitment. We'll build at least five. But it won't be easy, of course not. Why not? Because politics is at home for the elderly, building a home for the elderly, if you want, in Europe is completely different than in Slovenia, because in developed democracies, old democracies it makes it private capital. Whether we can negotiate is a big question. So we don't say we're just winners, not at all. Now you mention that some of our documents went to Brussels and were torn up there and so on. Look, the negotiations are still on, so I wouldn't be taking this kind of conclusion and putting people into depression. The fact is that we will know these funds that are available – and I hope they will be available – we ourselves know that some country at some stage can also block them – really use them very effectively. I don't criticize the budget, as he presented it, by Dr. Andrey Bertonzel. Of course, circumstances were completely different, completely different. Surely the budget adopted by this National Assembly would be significantly different if the severe consequences of the coronary epidemic were already indicated. I'm not going to answer some of the obviouss with populism, but with numbers when I'm going to talk about realisation for 2019. We have this information because the Commission for Public Finance Supervision has already dealt with the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 and we actually see how many certain budget items have been realised. It is a feeling, and the fact that, in fact, there may not be enough money for any item. Sometimes the problem is to establish a sufficient absorption capacity to actually draw on this item. Free is an item for building something, anything if you don't have documentation, if the environmentalists don't even say their own, they haven't said the last word and so on and so forth. Then it's free on this item, I don't know, I'm making up a few $10 million. But we're going in order now. Indeed, as regards the expenditure balance, the realisation in 2019 was 9.9 billion. The revised budget is at a low rate of 13 billion and a half. The difference, the increase, what we will now accept, what we are considering, is 36%. There is probably no need to explain why there is such a big difference, why such a big, 36% increase in terms of realisation in 2019. Yes, anyone who understands the consequences of the epidemic in a tiny way will understand if he wants to. We've been told a lot that we don't like non-governmental budget users. We raise budget expenditure by 8% in terms of realisation. That's almost $5 million. We have come to appreciate that we do not like the Advocate of the principle of equality. Whoever listened to this meeting in full today could hear it, also on the board, by 42%, we are increasing the funds by more than 430 000. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs – all this time since I've been in Parliament, I have tried to ensure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs works well so that, as far as the budget is concerned, they have enough money for their activities. I say today that it is probably not optimal that there are also some memberships for our international organisations and so on on on the items of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is not the activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would like to see in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the items that the Ministry needs for its operations. It is true that we are chairing the Council of the European Union next year, and this is also the reason why the funds increase by 48% or by a good 44 million in 2019. The Ministry of Justice. If we want the rule of law, and we are working to do so, it is necessary that we also have good infrastructure. Infrastructure. Therefore, we are increasing the funds by 31% according to the realisation in 2019. Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. If anyone, then in New Slovenia we want and understand that an economy, a well-functioning economy, is actually the key to the functioning of all other social subsystems. Therefore, according to the realisation in 2019, we increase the item by 97%, to EUR 402 million. On the inside, we increase the funds for local development infrastructure by 62 million. Because we care about local self-government because we understand the principle of subsidiarity, one of the key principles also in the European Union. For economic infrastructure and for development centres, we increase funds by a factor of 7 and a half, that is 750%, or for a good 25 million. It's probably hard to criticize this, such a budget thing. In some ways, the Ministry of Infrastructure in the budget, if I may say, has exceeded the magic limit of 1 billion, we are increasing the funds by almost one quarter or 203 million, totaling 1 billion and 66 million. Probably no one needs to explain what it means to build transport, road, rail and other infrastructures and what the multiplier effects are here. Ministry of Environment and Space. We are increasing the funds by 95 million and 32% according to the realisation of 2019. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is increasing resources by 15%, and we are close to 2 billion. For social security, we increase the funds by 16% or by a good 200 million. I particularly underline this because we are so obvious that we are not social and so on. Ministry of Health. If I return to the 2020 budget rebalancing a little bit, I will link this year and the Ministry of Health with the Ministry of Defence. We hear so many populist and so many unrealistic things, the fact is, or at least one of the truths is that the Ministry of Defence in this year's rebalancing did not, gave the Ministry of Health 30 million euros. I've been asked on national television, how do we take it that the defense has lost 30 million, the defense is led by our president. No, she didn't lose, the defense gave the Ministry of Health 30 million euros. And we increase resources at the Ministry of Health by 188% or by 345 million in 2019. Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. We increase funds by 16% or 314 million. There was a lot of talk here about kindergarten and primary infrastructure. I was grateful that a part of the previous coalition had supported our amendment. We now have these funds for a four-year tender of €40 million, this said on Saturday's Finance Committee. 40 million for kindergarten and primary education infrastructure, four-year tender. Science and information society, within the Ministry of Education, is increasing by 33%. The Ministry of Culture. I'm not going to list the readings because I'd probably need half an hour or more of what we're seeing in this particular area. For the Ministry of Culture, we increase the funding for next year by 38% or 65 million, i.e. by 38% in 2019. Together, this ministry has poor EUR 240 million of funding. And as far as pensions are concerned, we are increasing the funds by 44% or almost 410 million euros. We, when we were in the opposition, also in support of technological development projects, have made a number of amendments because we understand and know that without development, without investing in development, there is simply no progress. And if we pool funds for the item Support to technological development projects, for 2022 at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Ministry of Finance, these funds amount to €72 million or more than twice the amount of realisation for 2019. For 2021, what we are currently looking at is a total of €91.5 million, almost three times as much as the realisation in 2019. I know the numbers are dry, but they're exact. And these figures actually show the direction of our economic policy. If anyone, respected colleagues and colleagues, must be us Members and Members of Parliament, who from this Chamber in these difficult times also give some positive signals to all our citizens and citizens. Those who, in some tolerance and humility, respect exactly all the recommendations of the medical profession applied by the Government in the form of government decrees or adopted here in the National Assembly. As regards the budget documents for 2021, I can ensure that New Slovenia supports them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Here you go, sir, a replica. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, it's Prednik, in the first part. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Just for an explanation. My colleague, Joseph Horvato, and I agree that no homes have been built for the elderly, but since this is repeated over and over again in this national assembly, it is also necessary to say why not. In the latest financial perspective, 2014-2020, this construction was not possible from EU funding, as the European Union has decided. Finally, it was possible to build from EU funds 2007-2014, but carefully, at the time of the adoption of the IP, your government, according to the first Janša government, decided to go into the concession system. Then the crisis came. And why wasn't construction financed from an integral, from the work that was supposed to be possible at the time, and it wasn't possible? Due to the fiscal constraints that you have caused by calling on the troika, the international financial market has been irresponsible, and also to the Zufi, because of you, who have participated in the other Janša government. So there is also a need to illuminate a certain background, but we agree that there is a need to move forward here, and I hope that you will now succeed from either EU funds or build a new home for the elderly from an integral point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The first one has the word Bojana Muršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! After a good nine-hour review of the budget documents, we have not even moved to the next amendment, which means that we are talking about an extremely important document, which is accompanied by great uncertainty for 2021, despite the assumption of 5.1% economic growth. There is great uncertainty and it appears that we will not be able to avoid even next year, nor the question, or even in 2022, because the epidemiological situation has a strong impact on the dynamics. Of course, the recovery of our economy will depend on the effectiveness of the measures we have been taking recently with the CAPs, and the next week the PKP6 is on its turn, the PKP7 is already forecast. I don't know which one we're going to end up in. In the introduction, the Minister of Finance announced that this was a sectoral crisis. Yeah, all sectors are affected. I don't know which sector he was referring to, but whatever measures are being taken in the National Assembly, there are alarming predictions about the downturn of businesses, which at this point is particularly in Styria. The closure or abandonment of the production of Cimos in Maribor – this is only one of the large companies where redundant workers or in December will receive cancellations. While some will have the opportunity to move to another facility in Vuzenica, Maribor-Vuzenica I do not know how many of them will be able to accept such work at all during the current crisis, when we do not even have public transport and many of the employees do not even have personal transport. At the end of Maribor, I must say, as well as across Slovenia, the closures of guest shops, smaller shops are announced, and independent entrepreneurs are turning to how to survive, especially hairdressers, pedicures, manicures, how to live. Despite the fact that all these measures, which they are now solving at this given time of the situation, remain fixed costs. For fixed costs it is predicted that some will be covered by the PKP6, but that will not save them either. Let these be loans – loans have to be repaid. And a lot of people rented loans, traffic today is not there, or the country has stopped them from doing it. It's gonna be hard, I believe. I don't want to be absolutely pessimistic, but with all these predictions being announced, and even when we are listening to the Chamber of Economics, the question is when you see a reduction in unemployment funds in the budget. Otherwise, it is forecasting, but it seems that we already know today that reducing unemployment funds will be necessary to correct the balance. The 2021 rebalancing is therefore essential today. I don't know why funds aren't planned more realistically, at least on this item where there's really worrying data. The information I received yesterday from the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is also of concern. On the question of how many unemployed people will be included in the active public work policy in 2021, this said that 2 000 unemployed people are planned to be included. During the period from 1 to 10, January to October 2020, 3 000 177 people are involved, with a significantly better situation than next year. That's why I have a legitimate question about where this is going. Are we really gonna have a social bomb? We call her that a lot. We will have absolutely more discontent, more unemployed, regrettably, the most worrying, more mental distress. And here we have a really big problem. Because when we have mental distress when people are irritated, we have another health problem, for this disease will have to be treated. And how are we going to treat them? I believe that all people are aware and aware that the situation we are in is extremely difficult. After the health crisis, which of course is, we already have an economic crisis and we will also have a social crisis. We're gonna run out of money in the years to come. All these measures are absolutely important for the recovery of the economy, which means additional provision of resources, but all this costs. Debts are emerging, debts are increasing, and debts will have to be repaid. Who's gonna pay them off by 2050? Our children, our grandchildren and the question, if not another generation behind the darkness. Yes, we currently have a huge deficit in which I must say that there is no sense of thought, responsibility and efficiency, and not transparency, although today it has been explained by the Ministry that they are trying to ensure transparency. Otherwise, we will see what awaits us, so far this transparency has not been traced. Yes, for 2021, the fiscal rule does not apply, so of course it is commendable that all ministries are acquiring, but when I have read the budget, I cannot close my eyes before this budget does not involve even regional development, but it only shows who is stronger, who has lobbied more for a particular environment, and those projects are in the budget. Today, too, it has been said several times that the SNS amendments were even supported by the Finance Committee because the SNS has a signed agreement with the Government. Yes, the supercollective party we had in the previous reference to Levico, that's what was said. Nevertheless, the SNS is indeed a special party in our National Assembly, but I do not want to talk about it, it is a matter of coalition and their agreement. In the area of health, investment funds at tertiary and secondary levels are increasing, which I absolutely welcome, it is good to look closely at where updates are foreseen, but unfortunately I must say that the northeast part of Slovenia is neglected. And as colleague Lidija Divac Mirnik said, Stajerska, North-East Slovenia is a second-class Slovenia or a second-class citizen. Once again, I note that the allocation of funds for this healthcare system, linked to investment and the development of institutions, is disproportionate, does not take account of the equal representation between public health institutions, their mission and their importance. So that I am not misunderstood, I am absolutely not opposed to the fact that public health agencies are increasing funds or obtaining updates. We have absolutely an investment-extremely malnourished health system, it seems to me that we should finally make one long-term plan in the country, look at what the priorities are, set them up, and no matter what government is, left, right, orange, green to work on this plan. But now it's kind of a partial leap into individual projects, regardless of whether any other project is already so long-lasting and needed to be restored and just to be included, but it actually falls out. It is necessary to make funds and to make a fair cut. Why am I saying this? I am most disturbed by the inequality between the two most important tertiary institutions, between UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor. The geographical UKC Ljubljana somehow covers two thirds of Slovenia, while the other covers one third. Employment also moves between 1 and 2.5. At the same time, I must point out that the ruling party, the SDS, has always supported the decentralisation of Slovenia, so I am really interested in asking where the words are today. You really forget about this ending. And if I continue with Styrian. I'm kind of going to focus on this squire ending. This unfortunate Maribor library or, as it is now called, the Centrum Rotovž, which is not only important and for Maribor, is also important for all other municipalities near Maribor, Ruše, Selnica, Lovrenc, Hoče, Slivnica, Kamnica, Bresternica and all others, it is important that you finally get your space in the budget. Of course, absolutely, the Municipality of Maribor also has to do its thing. A colleague of Divacov said in her debate today that if we want to have educated people, they need to be provided with adequate infrastructure. But since we somehow don't recognize this project, I wonder if we want or if the ruling coalition wants a more educated staff. I don't know, maybe they're better equipped with less educated personnel, which are better managed, because they don't have that much insight. This will also prove to be true in time. I would also like to point out in the western part of Maribor that it is necessary to finish and not just set up and not finish. It is important to ensure that sufficient resources are provided to complete this important investment and that access to the motorway for citizens coming or coming from these remote areas will be enabled as quickly as possible. Because before you get to the highway, it's a long way. The relocation of the Department of Pulmonary Diseases is also an extremely important project, not only for Mariborians, but also for everyone else. I would expect funds from the European Union to be made available for this to finally happen. As the Minister of Finance said very well at the beginning of the introduction, in 2021 there is no fiscal rule, it is a derogation from the fiscal rule, it would be good to listen to this backward part of Slovenia. We were all proud when we were lonely. Why? Because when we were in Yugoslavia, all the money was flying to Belgrade. Now everything is happening the other way around, but somehow this western part, central Slovenia, is developing more. I would like to take care of the overall and even development of the whole of Slovenia, but unfortunately the documents we have on the table do not follow this. The Minister of Finance also said well in the introduction that the budget is designed to lead the country to recovery through the measures included in the budget. Is this really going to happen, we're going to see, and we're going to talk about it as soon as possible at the end of next year. But not only will I mock you, Minister, but you're on the same page. You mentioned that you have recognised that it is extremely important to provide more resources for local government, for municipalities that raise 350 million euros for investment. And it is true that you recognize that municipalities will be able to spend these funds on investment projects, because only municipalities know which investment projects – not only those but also significantly more and easier to know what people need at their end, and that is extremely commendable. Of course, since the municipalities are the only and main engine for the development of local communities. In investing in nursing homes, this has already been said several times today, we still do not know where this investment will start. We all know we should have new seats. I also admit, the guilt could be or is also on our side that we haven't built any homes in all this time. As my colleague Jani has already said, in the financial perspective of 2007-2014 this was possible, but we were in crisis in 2010-2012, it is said, no homes were built at the time, and in 2014-2020 the financial perspective of the European Union did not allow or allow this. But what I'm trying to say is that at this time, it was still working in the area of home for the elderly. Not only are all constructions, but also upgrades, replacements of roofs, repairs of individual spaces, rehabilitation of boilers, new equipment, including heating systems need to be reconstructed, also recovery of criticals are needed, reconstruction of bathrooms. We must not forget that the homes that were built, I will say, in 1970, needed renovations. Many of these projects have been made in all this time. However, without housing for the elderly, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities was not available, it invested in homes for the elderly. Indeed, no new homes were built. But they've upgraded and they've opened new units, and you can't forget that, or we can't forget that. And that's the key. So the funds were somewhere, I will say, if I play a little bit more with numbers in 2010, as much as 5 million, more than 5 million Euros of spent money that we put in homes for the elderly in 2011, 2 million in 2011, 2012 is down 2 million, 2013 is down, and so is 2014 and 2015 is down 4 million. In fact, there was only something going on in this area. We always say, no home has been built – yes, the units have been built and the reconstructions have been. So we can't miss it. And it costs a lot of money, too, I'm sorry. It'll cost you. Today, the Minister mentioned at the outset that funds from the budget would also be allocated to curb the spread of covid-19 and the treatment of people. Nevertheless, I would like to touch on the areas of buying fast tests. The purchase of rapid tests would be effective in at least those workers employed in health care, in social welfare institutions where they need to know daily whether or not an individual is infected with the virus or not that it does not reach or spread through an individual facility and then subsequently transfer it to patients. But look at the fraction, according to the latest information, each hospital has purchased these tests on its own way, through its channels, when the professional public has yet to give a clear opinion, the tests from which the manufacturer is most reliable, and more. What pisses me off the most is that, for example, General Hospital Celje bought fast tests at the price of 7.12 euros, General Hospital Dr. Franca Derganca Nova Gorica at the price of 11.50 euros, and UKC Ljubljana, you will not believe what 35 euros is. I don't know which manufacturer, but we're talking about quick tests. And where's the economy, I wonder. Does the Ministry intend to cover these costs? Are we really not able to make one hospital, if we see that Celje General Hospital had the opportunity to buy fast tests at a price of 7.12 euros, buy more and then redistribute them, or if hospitals can't sell it, to somehow compensate for these tests? These are, these are such prices, these are abnormal price differences! And if the ministry decides to cover these costs, I wonder if we're going to set a standard or if Maribor is going to pay for a quick 35-euro test, which we're going to pay for 35? I think we already have to deal with public money economically. To finish slowly, because I see I'm quite long. The opposition is proposing amendments, as always, because we want to improve this budget. And as I said, we want to ensure the even development of the whole of Slovenia. Therefore, in this place, I hope that coalition Members will think of my words that I use and pass on to my children when I always say to them: "Do not use words, I cannot but say, I will try." That is why I also expect the coalition members to follow this motto and shake off their fear of confirming an amendment, and yet act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Vice President. I've been waiting a little, I've been listening a little bit, to the answers to the questions I've already asked today, but of course I didn't get, at least not the ones that people actually care about. It was interesting, however, to listen in the debate of the Coalition Member in reading this budget. I must say, although I am glad that colleague Joseph Horvat took the time and read the totals. At the same time, he noted that a number of governments had not implemented reforms, but he did not mention whether this government would carry out any reforms at all. At the same time, he was thrilled to explain how the low-days on all items are actually increasing, but the budget always reflects policies that, in fact, with the budget of that government or every time it proposes a budget, will implement certain policies. And, of course, he didn't talk about the content of these numbers, he just talked about how they were meant for good and so on. If we go look, I'll start with social work first, where he mentioned nursing homes. He mentioned that the last home had been built in 2008, even at the time of the operation of Nova Slovenije. My purpose is not, far from having to question whether this is right or wrong, but I will somehow respectfully assess that my colleague Horvat has never really been involved with this policy, and he may therefore very superficially have suggested that this information was no longer actually building homes for the elderly, but at the same time he went to a kind of paradox. He said: “You no longer built a home and there was no new home.” On the other hand, he says: “You know, as everywhere in the world, in all democratic countries, the homes of the developed countries are built by the private sector.” That's exactly what's been going on since 2008. Since 2008, the private sector has mainly built homes in Slovenia. But what is the most terrible information, no one wants to hear it: the place in the homes is too small, but by the number per inhabitant we have a home now in fact above the average. So if we wanted to build as many homes as we have needs, but the need is for at least 2,000 and more beds, then we would come to the very top of the world home. That's not a problem in homes, it's a problem somewhere else. And that, Comrade Horvath, and that's not what this budget is talking about. This, however, is what will be the new policy in the areas of care for the elderly, the protection of the elderly and the assistance of the elderly. He mentioned long-term care, which is a rakrana, and for the last 10 years we've been talking about it, but we can't get it through. But in this budget, I don't see any clues and I don't tell anyone that this law is really going to happen. Since funds should be reserved, this means so much and so much additional funds or at least an indication of how this will be arranged. He said there would be no new taxes, but if this government wanted to arrange long-term care, it would have to make a mandatory contribution. Because I don't see this money in my budget for two years. So, what exactly is the problem? I believe that esteemed colleague Horvat is monitoring this from his office, and it's nice that it's not full of halls, and he might comment later on. So much for thinking about why these things don't work out. Neither does this budget indicate whether, at last, it will, as it has already begun, and whether it will continue with the medical cash register cleaning of those funds, let's say, properly, relieve those funds for which there is no point in paying them because they have not been set up. We have already moved specializations to the budget, where are the other steps? We said very clearly, with the dynamics of two years ago, that we would slowly start cleaning up this medical cash register. It is already nice and right that we will reduce waiting lines, but at the same time it does not say that by the way this government envisioned, we will essentially start by decomposing the public health system, because we will just share the money across the board, to everyone, including those who are not in the public health network. I think, above all, that public institutions and concessionaires will be covered here. All right, well, I'd agree with that if I saw a vision and a program or some reform to at least know what that policy is about, but it's not. I must say that I was a little disappointed, especially in this context, when he replied to my esteemed colleague Jožet, that he was the only one who correctly took and commented, and all the others gave a glance that they were not correct in summarising what he actually wrote in 2019 on his website, where he spoke in the title “Sharec & Left – the Generators of Unconstitutionality.” And then, of course, he says the following, and now I'm going to quote that he won't say that I was incorrect: "We're going to pay this debt back for a long time, 100 years. The simple conclusion is that we live at the expense of our descendants. When will Slovenia be able to pay a good €30 billion capital and interest on top? At Sarec & Left Dynamics over 100 years! And when we realize that we live at the expense of our children and our children's children, we run into a moral issue. The headless spending of public money, in the way of purchasing public support, which will soon break up like a soap bubble, indicates economic gambling, constitutional gambling, social gambling and the moral gambling of Sharčeva's peter." That's what he wrote down and he's talking about 30 billion debt. With this budget, we will increase the debt to over 40 billion! And now my friend Horvath is quiet. So, not for three generations, for five generations after his explanation, and I'm not saying that, far from it. In any case, I wonder if we owe ourselves very properly, and I ask: What in God's name are we going to spend this money for? That's all I'm asking. Let us let citizens and citizens know what we are going to spend this money for. Because to talk about what the Prime Minister of the Government said today when he said that we should not believe the media, but let us believe him – I quote when he said: “The media are telling you that some countries do not accept the rule of law and that this is why the blockade of this agreement is threatening. We're going to have to explain a little here because I doubt you're going to find out the real picture from the media. The fact that the rule of law is the foundation of the existence of the European Union has been reached on the European Council of July by full consensus, full consent," and so on, that I do not read its full performance. Of course, the devil is in detail, always. Because whenever he tells me to, don't listen to the media, and that's what the Prime Minister says, I'll cut my ears off: "Yeah, hell, what's right?Oh, my God! So our media is lying!" And I'm going to watch and watch the statement by the German Secretary of State for European Affairs Michael Roth, who says, "It's not time for veto, it's time for quick action in the spirit of solidarity." "The veto will be very expensive for people," he stressed before the virtual meeting of EU Ministers for European Affairs. I think if I didn't say it, sir, I'd probably have been demented a long time ago, and we'd have a big story about how we're making a statement. Whom do I trust now, and what did the Prime Minister really want to say? And what do I want to warn you about? Above all, I would like to point out that in this performance, he has said the following, if this is not the case now, that we will deny every national government what it will take, not on the basis of some arrangements in the EU, but on the basis of some majority decision either at a referendum or in Parliament or elsewhere. And mention a traffic jam in the Netherlands, czech, now a non-governmental organization will be a peace institute – a fine, skillful entanglement in it, because it's getting on his nerves, because I'd like to put it out a long time ago – and say the following sentence: "And then we'll block certain things now," and so on and so on. Sorry, this isn't about traffic in the Netherlands. The rule of law is two countries that do not respect the rule of law. And then he says, you know, that's the basis of the contract, Article 7. He signed it himself, and he knows what it says! I'm sorry, we all know why Poland is the problem. The problem is that she wanted to essentially change the other branch of power through dictatorship and retire constitutional judges who were unwilling to do so. Why this is important, and we see later, one year after Poland has done so – because they have been able to raise their rights in democratic countries to a standard that the European Union has no longer known, which is that women are deprived of the right to abortion and decide on their own body. And Hungary, which actually shuts down the media, too. And we see that Slovenia is very close to going the same way. That's what we're talking about. Why am I even opening that question today? Because we are adopting the budget and boasting about some means that we do not even know whether or not we will receive them or whether we will receive them in the coming years. We are talking about a thousand 824 billion for the whole of Europe and that part of the cut that falls on Slovenia, et cetera, et cetera. Who do you believe now? President of the government, the media telling us something else, or what? Is the President of the Government the only one who now interprets the Treaty of Lisbon, and how does he understand it? Yeah, that's the problem. I agree that's the problem. It is not only our Prime Minister, but also the Hungarian Prime Minister, who has a problem with the Polish Prime Minister, who interprets Article 7 a little each. But the rule of law is being interpreted in its own way. And I am glad, thank God, that Slovenia has not opposed the rule of law process, to respect it and so on and so forth. That's why, Minister of Finance, tell me what he's really holding out on right now and how we're gonna get this money that we're all dreaming about and bragging about how he's gonna get here and how he's been well negotiated. Although we all know well that we will see these strong billions coming, maybe when these governments are gone, or not at all. Most importantly, we have another problem to open up in this budget – our SVRK. You all know what the month of September was. In Brussels, they looked hard and wondered what we had sent there. And that's why we still don't really know what kind of projects we're going to be launching today. What is this SVRK doing? We should have a document on the table to discuss today. Doesn't mean we'll all agree on it. We have never agreed on a matter in this country. I don't expect a single mind, either, far from it. Of course, everyone has the right to have his own view and his own right. And if there was one thing I liked about my colleague Horvath today, I liked what he said when he said: not one truth, one of the truths is that the defense gave 30 million to health. Not that she's been taken or anything else, if I'm abstracting what he was going to say. One of the truths. And the devil is back in the details. Which truth should I believe? This budget has one serious problem, which is that it has one major drawback. The fiscal world has made clear the following: The government needs to define more precisely the expenditure of 1 billion. That's not what I said. That's what the Fiscal Council said. That's not what the opposition said. She also said that because of the second wave, income expectations are more pessimistic than in documents. It's a dead end again. Even now, revenues will be lower than those foreseen in the 2020 Rebalancing Plan, let alone what they predict for 2021 and 2022. That's what the Fiscal Council said, not the opposition. There'll be no misunderstandings. Tell them they're wrong, or tell them they don't know what they're looking at. The deficit without covida-19 measures will jump from 1.3 billion in 2020 to 2 billion. [[…]] This is a markedly 17.4% increase in expenditure, i.e. investments. It also points out the need to invest effectively in EU grants, which is not visible, and, of course, most importantly, we must not accumulate debt to finance inefficient projects; perhaps later, the conditions for refinancing will be less favourable. I will also conclude by saying Janez Janša, Prime Minister of the Government: we must thank the Minister for Finance for having managed to negotiate the very favourable loans with which we have reprogrammed and closed the old loans. Thank you very much, Minister, but this is not the only Mister who's done this. Since 2013, all ministers have always received more favourable loans, either reprogrammed old loans or lost loans. Nothing new. The devil is, what are we going to do, and I'm going to point out what we're going to do now that we're going to borrow a lot of money, what are we going to do with 8 billion of our old debts, with these 10 billion when we do? [[…]] Because we don't know what's gonna happen in two, three years, and everyone's warning us that there's going to be a very difficult time ahead of us -- how are we going to reprogram? Because I remember in 2012, what happened, how hard it was to reprogram and get the money that was expensive because we couldn't get it anywhere. I won't forget the day that Chufer didn't actually dare tell himself that he borrowed the money, and he was quiet because he was afraid everyone would start spending it. And it was expensive money, but it was still cheaper than the way the liabilities went down. And that's what we need to talk about. Not just about numbers, how something grows. And in the end. Given that we have poor experience with the SVR, given that we have poor experience in drawing on the budget right from the start of the 1st. 1. and that then all the speeds of June, September, October and things start to fall and there are unused resources, I am afraid we will have a serious problem. In particular, in a country where any procurement that has more than a million value, we repeat at least twice or three times, and in the meantime some are also forcing their own and then starting an interesting lobby, interest and more than we are close to elections, some are doing services to each other. And these are traps. These are traps. This doesn't fly on you, Minister, but it's a trap for all those who naturally shake hands and have the right to work with this accepted money. The minister is usually the one who pays his head off because everyone else is breaking it. Every time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The replica has Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much to my distinguished colleague Jani Möderndorfer for noticing that I was in my office for health reasons and, of course, following this debate, which has disappointed me somewhat. Because colleague Jani Möderndorfer has a much greater potential than to tear apart every word and dissect what someone says. I also agree and greatly appreciate his efforts in LDS for long-term care, then in Positive Slovenia for long-term care, in Alenka Bratušek for long-term care, in SMC for long-term care, and in LMŠ for long-term care, he failed. I believe we can do this together. It's hard, I don't think it's legal to have about 300 or 500 million on one item, but it's not law. The law is probably the basis, a specific law on long-term care, to then form an item. But I'm so happy that I didn't say it, but when Jani sees me, she already knows that I said it, and I didn't say it, I just think there won't be any new taxes, and there really won't be any. I agree. The medical checkbook needs to be cleaned. We're here together. Not just here, in many ways. Why in God's name are we gonna waste that money? We owe $40 billion. We'll make it worth our while. Why in God's name, Comrade Jani, do you not come to the Committee on Finance and why don't you discuss the report, where exactly it says where the funds are allocated? There was not one word of the debate, not one word of it. So I'm happy, I'm always happy with our constructive dialogue. Stay healthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I'd like to explain something. Even what Mrs Muršič said and what Mr Möderndorfer has just said. I will answer the challenges or questions raised here. The issue of the current state and current health needs and the question of what is stated in the budget documents for 2021 and 2022 have been raised several times. We already have specially colored expenditure relating to covid and to the prevention of codepidaemia. In this regard, the budget shall cover all costs. In other words, health problems are currently being solved, materials are currently being obtained, equipment is currently being procured, as you have seen, a clinical center or some part of the clinical center is being built very quickly and so on. The Ministry of Finance does not do this directly, it does so through the Ministry of Health, which is responsible for this. Here I would like to say that money is provided for all the health needs currently required under the 2020 budget balance. And also for, if you like, expanding some hospital premises. Here's a nice example of how this happened, the clinical center. Because we're in a situation where we need to act quickly. I agree that this money must also be spent effectively; it must be controlled. And this is also done to ensure that all procedures and so on – the government works through the Ministry of Health – are as they should be. Here is also what Mrs Muršič said about current needs and so on. But we can't say here today that there's no money for health or health care. This is also financed by European funds, which is also financed by the Recovery Fund, with various other funds, whatever the case, and therefore we owe ourselves. So from this point of view, the state or government provides these funds. The second is what the budget documents are. I am speaking because this debate here also arises in the current situation because it is budgetary documents. These budget documents also provide European funds – I think this has already been said by the State Secretary – which relate to covid, as is also said in these budget working documents, and these funds are provided for both equipment and the improvement of the health system. Of course, when we talk about the care of the elderly and when we talk about whether or not there will be a new contribution and so on and there is no strategy here – the law is being prepared, the law on long-term care is being prepared. That the marriage will live, to say that in the full content it sets out, it will probably take some time. I'm not talking about years, I'm talking about weeks, months and so on. The sources of funding for long-term care vary. Among other things, they are already listed, one of the resources of the Demographic Fund Act. I'm talking about one of the sources. Other resources can also come from European funds, as it is also possible to get money for long-term care. We are talking about a long-term supply project, which will, of course, include all the criteria or criteria required in this regard by the European Commission or the various funds from which long-term care will be financed. It's similar to health care. We speak for the budget for 2021 and 2022. Projects are being prepared in this regard. Many times there was a question about it, or I have already answered the question of what money will be spent on today, the money that is the source of the debt. This money is actually being used up. It's mainly used for health care. We can't just add up 10 billion here, just like I've heard here many times. It can all be summed up, but here we have to look at how much debt is in the law on the implementation of the budget and how much we have projected recovery in each year. This is public and transparent. In 2021, it will return just over 3 billion euros, about 3 billion and a half. That's the plan. He'll be gone. And we have plans here for every euro. Nor is it true that Slovenia will be in debt for 40 billion during this period, as has been said. The debt situation will be around 40 billion over this period, I am now thinking. In 2019, I think the situation was about 32 billion. So, of course, from this point of view, you have to be realistic. And the important information is that the cost of financing this debt is decreasing. Data, which is, if we look at it in a comparative way – I get by this debt, far from saying that it's in principle good, some say that it is. There is, of course, a border issue. We are talking about 80% of gross social product. I did a little rounding, 82 in 2020, 79 in 2022 and so on. It's here somewhere. Here we are in the first half of the countries of the European Union, saying those who are least indebted. But they're all in charge. Here I do not intend to discuss now whether it is better to be in charge of 60%, such as the Maastricht criterion, for which there are probably no more people in the European Union today who would say that this must be the criterion that will be important for someone to step into the euro, for example, because in all countries this debt has grown. That's the situation. We're no different here. And in some countries, it's much more than we do, but that doesn't justify us again. But for the fact that we're paying more for the epidemic, there's no better way to get expenditure at this point. There are still theoretically, but probably no one will agree that we are, say, reducing state property at the expense of this. I'm speaking theoretically, I didn't say – I'm just saying what else exists, the one where we could still get the money. We can talk about new taxes, but at this point, excuse me – what should we tax? Very simple: there is no profit if there is no profit, you cannot increase the profit tax. The country pays to a large extent, so it cannot increase taxes on wages or contributions to wages. Consumer consumption, of natural persons, cannot therefore increase value added tax. I'm talking about options that even exist. And there are credits where the interest rate is relative to the past, anyway, or compared to how we compared ourselves in the past, relatively favourable to the ten-year bond, including the thirty-year bond. So that's not what this is about right now. When someone studies or thinks about what the benefits and disadvantages of different sources of funding are, we have come to this, like many other countries. What will it be used for? Once again, we're talking about investments here. Of course, we will require the efficiency of the implementation of investments, the efficiency of the use of investments and so on, but if you invest in infrastructure, or road or rail, I give an example, then you cannot expect that rail investment or investment in the road to have this effect for the first time, this return. As we all know, such an investment has a relatively low level of return, compared to others I speak, but it has certain synergies. And, of course, the effects not only on the economy, which is becoming more competitive, bringing the places closer and more competitive, but also on people, on people's well-being, on people's quality of life and so on. This is where we know it, and that's why we're doing it. The situation in which we read every day about the number of patients, about the number of the dead is certainly not easy, but even at these moments, I think that the budget must show ambition, and it must show that, in fact, with the money that exists in Europe today also because of the functioning of the European Central Bank and the release of these fiscal frameworks, we must think about the future, about investment, about the time when the epidemic will be no more. Because if we just think about how it was yesterday, and not how it's going to be tomorrow, then we're definitely going to miss the moment when we just have to do everything we can to make this moment better tomorrow and that we're going to be faster and that we're going to be able to put the economy in such a position, that they're going to move fast and that they're actually going to work fast. It's also this reflection that we're talking about, and that's what we're talking about, and I'm talking about after the first wave. Now there is a second wave, this reflection will probably be slower, but we must endure and we must insist on getting out of this crisis. And this budget for 2021 makes it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have a replica. Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u90	Thank you. First part of the replica. I hope that the Minister and I agree that the differences between who is in charge and who is in charge. One thing is how indebted Japan is, the other is how indebted Germany and Italy are, the third is how indebted we are. This is what I was saying about Keynes this morning — that money is a matter of politics, not some invisible miracle hand. As far as health care is concerned, it's not in health care. Janez Janša himself sneered that only one missed week in health care three pike ahead. [[…]] We have more than half a year left behind, we have 20 years left behind, where will we finance health infrastructure, where will we finance some serious human resources policy and where will we finance Slovenian public health information? When I met your predecessor in Levica at that time, I said, "Mr. Bertonzel, where will you find 1 billion?" And he looked at me so hard, and I said, "We need so much in seven, eight years for these things." We will now be flunking medical bills, infrastructure something UKC Ljubljana, a few hospitals Celje. If a situation were different, if, I don't know, my wife was working at Celje Hospital, I guess someone would have guessed that's what we were doing. And Celje needs these pennies, you know. But we, whether we do the gastros, I don't know, years x or years x plus 7, mean so many cancers, which means so much cashier's spending, up and down, means so much and so much family suffering, disease, here and there. You know, it's not that story of butter or cannons, it's a story of infection, a gastro department or, I don't know, Tonin's eight-wheelers. In short, in this light, you know, if we view as sociologists, what is most important, health, family, these budgets are under-directed in this direction, which is also on behalf of our ministry, the Ministry of Health. So clean for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Robert Pavšič has the floor and Mr Tomaž Lisec is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u92	Thank you. Good evening, everyone! First, two direct responses to the debate or to Mr Horvat's replica and also to Mr Shirtzl's reply. I hear Mr. Horvath has medical reasons to be in his office. If a colleague is sick, let him go home because just such irresponsible conduct has led us to the situation where we are today. As for the new taxes, Mr Šircelj, because you have taxed air, we have to pay 2 euros for the mask if we do not have masks, we pay 400 euros in air, you taxed croissants, we also pay 400 euros, you taxed burek, we also pay 400 euros if we eat it on the street. So little for a call. And this reference to the current state of affairs, this is today, even in this debate, already some sort of red thread. We have heard: the epidemic is not a political issue, masks are not a political issue. No, the epidemic is really not a political issue, it's a health issue, it's a management of the epidemic, and that's a political issue. Who is proposing measures? The government. It also accepts one without being dealt with by Parliament. Who's taking these measures? Coalition. It's usually very uncritical. Then who is implementing these measures? The government. The coalition and the government are both political structures, so the epidemic is still a goddamn political issue. Masks. These are really not a political issue, and the acquisition of masks has become a political issue for us. The Government authorised Minister Restovalsk and authorised Minister Tonin to purchase protective equipment. One lost the truck and, in parallel, all credibility in this area of procurement, the results of the other, i.e. Minister Restovalsk, and we will be monitoring them for probably a very long time. And what are Tonin and Retirement right now by profession? They're both political officials. So, even masks have become a fucking political issue for us. And then I ask you not from the coalition or from the government to take some responsibility, you have done so both through measures and through procurement and you are responsible for the situation and no other, not people or the media. As far as the budget is concerned. The efficiency of the budget shall be measured when the budget is implemented when the report on its implementation is on the table. So it is painful to listen to this constant boasting, how much more someone will get, how much more someone has given to someone, and so on. For the time being, it is clear and factual only that the government of Marjana Sarca created EUR 250 million of budget surplus in 2019, that in a few weeks your government has made an overpayment and, as it turns out, useless medical equipment. You have added 4.2 billion euros in deficits to these 250 million – but I have heard that the numbers are changing. So another 4 thousand 200 million euros. Now, with the documents we are considering, you intend to strengthen and elevate the EUR 10 billion in 3 years of this 4.2 billion deficit over the coming years. So, 10,000 million euros of new poofs, new deficits. You can structurally, you say, reduce – of course, if there is a higher GDP, there will be structurally less indebtedness, but we will still be the same amount of money due or more each day because interest has to be paid. But it is obvious that the preparation of these budget documents is as simple as folding some dice. But it's enough cellophane, it's enough of some beautification, what we're monitoring today is extremely bluffing, patronizing for moments. Because we don't get anything, we're all stupid. Without responsibility, that is what we are witnessing today. Through all the complementary explanations, the views, the discussions are just explanations of how we are today in specific situations and especially in unstable situations, as if we do not know. Even in these situations, we are said to be excellent, even as far as credit ratings are concerned. Great, but if we take him out of our country, he doesn't even see it, and he feels even less. And I'm afraid it's going to be a long time, because in my opinion, you're destroying public finances in the long term, this government and this coalition. We have heard many times today, the budget is developmental, it is intended for the well-being of people – yes, of course. This, in my view, is a clear and weak assumption or desire. But you will not forget this every time, because this is very important and this is your starting point. I have a feeling that you are already apologising in advance that this list of wishes you call a budget is, in fact, unrealistic, misleading and, above all, completely beyond the actual state and, above all, the expectations and needs of this country, the country and the people. This vision, on the basis of which this country has co-formed and confirmed itself, has been sent to the European Commission. What was the reaction? That this country has not taken into account all these guidelines, which it has co-formed and confirmed itself, and that the expectations of this country are far beyond the available resources. So, we conclude, this government has diletted and headlong soloed in the document and also sent it to Europe. And then we hear an explanation: negotiations are still ongoing, these are the starting points. Yes, then you're in the paradox, because if the negotiations and the starting points, and you've taken these funds into account in the budget, then there's something damn wrong here, and there's just more evidence that it's a wish list. Such a simple principle of the preparation of these documents is, of course, reflected in the budgets. This was also the end of this year's budget, where it is totally irrelevant how money will be spent, but still what role the opposition plays in this process. Not in terms of adopting any amendments, we have already thrown a rifle into the corn here, but in the constitutional sense of controlling this government or any other budget. On the other hand, we listen to legitimate concerns, concerns that have been born in the experience of working with you, experience with this government and experience with coalition MPs. The words spoken and executed differ significantly from the facts and realities. And if we go first in a row. We've heard a lot today. In the initial exposition of Prime Minister Janez Janša, we heard mainly about the status of rule of law in relation to individual countries with the European Union. Such a relativisation of the rule of law from the mouth of the Prime Minister should not be heard, but we have heard it. Are we surprised? Not really. Interestingly, however, the President of the Government, John Janša, refers to the rule of law, but in the wrong context. This, in fact, indicates that the President of the Government does not understand the difference between the rule of law and the law itself. I went to take a look because I wanted to make sure before I said anything. The rule of law covers all branches of government and is also directly linked to people, respect for and implementation of the activities of all systems, including legal ones. Three are constitutional elements of the rule of law: legality, democracy and human rights. As far as legality is concerned, it is important that politicians accept and respect the independence and impartiality of justice. For example, politicians must not give an opinion on what they believe the outcome of a case which is before a court before the court takes a decision should be desirable. This could be understood by the judge and the general public as pressure, as external pressure to influence the outcome of the case. It's in the definition of rule of law. Politicians must also refrain from commenting on the details of the outcome of individual cases or the view that the decision was wrong. This does not mean, of course, that politicians must not say anything about judicial cases; they may propose to supplement laws or new laws because of a judicial decision or more decisions which they consider to be inconsistent with modern legal standards, and so on. And we remember all these words in relation to the definition that I said, and we remember the words of the government or the coalition, when we hear every so many, not every so many times, almost every day: criminals, biased judges, udbomafia in the police and in the investigative office. Let us remember all the assemblies, scandals, demonstrations organised by the government's policy, not by this government, but by the government's policy. Remember the dispatch of the RS Government Communications Office, remember the dispatch of the Minister for Foreign Affairs with these contents. And now it's a very fresh matter, and let's remember the current readings of the President of the Government, which are aimed at the judicial system of the most influential country in the world. Is that respect for the rule of law? Is this the role of politics in the rule of law? Is that right? You will answer yourself one way or another because we do not understand anything because the media understands nothing and, of course, report always wrong. The rule of law is about disciplining the administration of the government, so that it is subject to the law. This means that the authority is exercised only by those who have the legal authority to do so and that the authority is exercised in accordance with the laws. It is precisely this definition that is the greatest fear of this government – that it will have to operate within the legal framework. This is the rule of law. And then Janez Janša, because the media don't report correctly, oxymoron refers to the fact that the government's compliance with the rule of law can only be judged by the court [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah. Not to speak of respect for the decisions of the courts of this government. We're seeing what's going on with the director of the NPU. There's news today. And what does the man say? Once again, a new legal manoeuvre, in the morning, gets a person to revise or re-examine his procedure, and along with the conclusion that he was not actually chosen, even though he had been chosen a long time ago. Retroactivity. I mean, there's really nothing a man can do about this legal bravure, except to laugh here. And this is your success today – that people no longer trust politicians, they no longer trust politicians! Why should I? You do not take into account the measures you take. Hojs tried to walk here without a mask, but in Parliament, we warned him that he should not do it, Logar infected a series of his fellow diplomats, made a promotional film without a mask in the Gallery, government representatives paraded around Kolpa without distance and masks, Kortnik allowed manicure of nails in quarantine, Krek was tired of pouring fuel without a mask, and they caught him, although they should not, Kacin threatened to close borders, and then he jumped across the border last minute and cleaned the pool. And then you have a face to read to people that they didn't stick to action. That's the extreme duplicity. They did! I already told you. If you get a citizen or a citizen who eats croissants or burek, you cash him 400 euros, but if you get a government representative, then you can't get one! And even if you do get it, nothing happens because illegal cases can't be made public. In view of all this and, above all, what we have experienced, has been proven to be the fact that you are insecure, that you are uncreditable and that you are extremely opportunistic. When you're in the government, Minister Shircelj, you forget what the role of Parliament is. The role of Parliament is to keep an eye on the executive branch of power, and you took that away from us this year at all. Moreover, you are consciously violating your own legislation, which you yourself have adopted. Moreover, you have also admitted this, or your secretary of state has admitted it. And nothing happens. And now you hold your hand over the most difficult budget in the history of Slovenia, now you are deciding on a historic debt in the history of Slovenia. And because there's a crown here because there's an epidemic here that's not a political issue to believe. It's not gonna work that easy. Once again, we will quote our colleague Horvata: “The headless spending of public money and thus the purchase of public support, which will soon break like a soap bubble, points to economic gambling, constitutional gambling and the moral gambling of Charles Five and Levi.” Such was the roar of a fellow Member of Parliament, Horvath. Both thundered, including you, Mr Shircelj, that this year's budget, which you have already overrun with a balance, was unconstitutional. But it's proven that you made a capital mistake. Capital. The Constitutional Court said that the budget was not unconstitutional. Did you manage at least enough to say, we were wrong, we had the wrong assumptions? No, I heard today that there was a constitutional precedent for later generations! And now, with these billions and billions of euros, we will believe that you are infallible, but now you are right, that you have prepared a phenomenal budget, a developmental budget, for the benefit of people – you know what young people would say? Pajad, a little morgen, forget it! And yes, colleague Horvat, who I know is following us in the office in November 2018, when you were already talking to some coalition parties about the new government, the public support of the government of Marjana Sharca was superior and certainly much higher than today. But despite the immeasurable and irresistible spending of public money, your support is plummeting, with the collapse of the infected. All you know is how to deceive, convert and redeem your position in the government, by uncritically supporting everything that this government has given you for confirmation, you've got along with three sources, I'm talking about New Slovenia, where it's turning a lot of money, including Dars, where you put your vice-president of the party. It's like giving me Jerco Korca as CEO of Telekom and you'd be quiet and you'd agree. And there's a road safety agency, and there's something else that's gonna happen, I'm sure. And you've created a new job for Tretnar so on. And such two-faced people, who have quietly stepped from government to government, who have repeatedly lied to our faces in this building, who are supposed to follow them and even listen to them, now claim that this budget is developmental and in the welfare of the people! You're deceiving, and you're constantly justifying this deception with a crisis. The budget is only developed for your political friends, and the well-being of the people is your last concern. So you didn't personally convince me of the Members of the List of Marjan Sarcas. In fact, you're gonna have to keep your trust back because you don't have it anymore. And indeed, we are in a crisis, but not in a health and economic crisis, we are in a political crisis that you add toxicity to every day. By your own conduct, you separate the nation, keep telling us the truth, and you try to discipline us. I will conclude with the words with which you or your official government spokesman began this brutal march with your hand in the hand of the epidemic: enjoy as long as you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Tomaž Lisec, and Mr Alexander Reberšek is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. It is difficult to gather after such a discussion by the predecessor, but it is only evidence of how deep we would be if, fortunately, Slovenia were not miraculous on January 27th, but thank God, saved Mr Marjan Sarec and threw his rifles away into the corn. And yes, we all hope he never finds her again. Because what was in the last debate was this policy, which threw the rifle into the corn on January 27th. Populism, ignorance of matters, regret, intimidation, bitterness, then leaving the political scene or from the National Assembly Hall, not to listen to things that are not cool. Which are absolutely not cool, and I hope they'll never be cool. So much for the beginning and for those lost in time, place, or space, unfortunately, the lost have also gone into politics. Unlike the two-year-old who is smart and forgets that part of the coalition, which has made a lot of problems and almost no solutions, let me say, unlike him, that we are on 17 November 2020, when the whole of Europe faces a concept that apparently the predecessor has not heard of and is the main source of the problem not only in 2020, but will also be addressing its consequences in 2021, which is an epidemic. And it is this draft budget that attempts to represent a response and action to this epidemic with some other segments, perhaps a little later, which unfortunately we do not yet know how deep it will be not only Slovenia but also other countries. And while the predecessor says in his lost time and place that he does not believe the budget, he would remind him that they are the basis for the preparation of the macroeconomic assessment budget and the forecasts prepared by Umar in his autumn forecast. This has been the case for the budgets of 2020, 2019, 2018 and back to history. It is a fact, however, that an individual coalition, together with government representatives, must decide what are priorities. While some do not know what the priorities are and are also looking for them in this budget building, others see what the priorities of this government are. If we look only at this: the adopted budget and the budget gap drawn up by the previous so-called Sharčev government tell us what are the priorities, who acquires everything – the Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. In short, unlike those governments that have thrown billions of dollars into banks and, as a result, have received money back through their bank friends in their political options and their subsystems, unlike those billions lost, this government is putting billions into investments. Investments that come to people at the last stage through ministries. And that is why I believe that some of them are in pain because they prefer to run into billions, into the banking system, into those banks that we need to rehabilitate, and their bosses avoid the judicial system or get ridiculous penalties, what kind of conditional punishments, while somewhere in the throat of a deep country, they deliberately lose, with the consent of individual options, to tens of millions. What if we go first in a row? Priority, they said. Government service of the Republic of Slovenia for development and European cohesion policy 130 million more funds. I have been in Parliament for quite some time, and I know how well that European perspective 2007-2014 has ended in the last year of Janša's government at the night meetings of the Government and at the night meetings of coalition Members, when we invented not only laws but also measures to encourage matters. Then we had another government, which received a good draft of the 2014-2020 European programme and is more than not – as European and not Slovenian records show – 25 per cent of the consumption – dreamt there until the end of 2019. Now we're dealing with it again. Maybe it's just a call. While the left governments had no idea what to do with European funds, there is a meeting of two fellow Members who were, I think, after me for coffee – when we thought about how to do more modern schools without 50 and 100 years of school failing in individual municipalities, then Minister Zvone Cernač came up with an idea. Although he said first, boys, I can't save schools, it's not under my department, there's a message, I think in a few days: respected party colleagues, we're going to do an energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by local communities. We immediately received a positive opinion from Europe. I believe that in the first call for 52 million for the energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by local communities, after the municipalities have applied, and with 100% participation or participation of European funds. Then Minister Chernač made another call. And what was going to happen to that invitation? A left government has arrived, and the current minister, who replaced Minister Cernač at the Ministry of Infrastructure, has done what? He wanted to cancel that invitation, and I think it's like 50 million bags again. At Stožice to patch up the missed investment of their own mayoral socio-candidate, which was previously supported by the same parties. That's the difference. One of us is investing in people, and one is investing in banks and for the misinvestment of his political friends. Ministry of Economic Development and Technology 122 million more. Again, this unfortunate opposition is not pleased. They are always speaking, except of course one party who is more dreaming of the Venezuelan model, how it is necessary to give economic development and technology additional incentives. 122 million euros from the state budget alone, and once again this unfortunate opposition is not happy. I am the third member of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food and have never before had such a rich budget meal. Not only did we discuss on the Committee what agriculture will get, but in particular we received initiatives from the Farmers' Union, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, the Cooperative Associations and other stakeholders who have problems, unfortunately too often due to the climate and not because of their misdemeanour – the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food 60 million euros more money. The Ministry of Infrastructure. This is the ministry that we probably all put the most pressure on regardless of whether we are members of a coalition or opposition, or even those who are lucky to be municipal councilors, and we know how hard it is for mayors not only to patch up local and municipal roads, but also to gain some state investment in the form of intersections, circulars, cycling routes, bridges or other, railways. 270 million more money in the budget, and once again this unfortunate opposition is not satisfied because it is obvious that they will not share, because we will share the people and the municipalities and we will not share the banks. The Ministry of Environment and Space, in my opinion, is one of the most problematic ministries through my 15-year work perspective here in the National Assembly. Here comes the minister, fortunately replacing a few ten not unpolitical but incompetent senior and lower officials and things are starting to happen. That is why such a minister needs more than 95 million new resources to finally do everything that has accumulated in this ministry in recent years. Again, this unfortunate opposition is not happy. Members of the opposition are likely to come only from those municipalities where honey and milk flow and where they have saved water supply and do not have a problem with sewerages, watercourses or anything else. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities receives 308 million or more. We all talk, there is a crisis, the crisis is, let's give people – 308 million more for work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities. For all of the youngest to oldest people in our country, we will try to take care of these resources. To do what some have just said may have laid a foundation stone, and then they have gone either into oblivion at the political scene or into oblivion with their promises. We will do this not only because we have more of these resources, but because, unlike many governments, we respect and want to work on a programme called a coalition treaty. Ministry of Health 335 million more funds. There are so many speeches when they speak, more money in health care, more money in health care – here, this government gives 335 million more to health on the primary, secondary and also tertiary networks, and this unfortunate opposition is once again sad, angry and bitter. Certainly this opposition is wrong to do something about health care. And when we heard about decentralisation earlier, apparently the Celje General Hospital is for some centers. However, those who are gravitated somehow among the general hospital Celje, Novo Mesto and Brežice, we know that all three general hospitals are fed, and look at the fractures, the left governments take these patients' programs, and the right ones give the program and they want better rooms, not just for the better functioning of the healthcare staff, especially for patients. Ministry of Education, Science and Sport 150 million more resources. From kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, sports education to what one or two left-hand clients say a lot about, science and technology. But when the right government gives 150 million more, crying and grinding teeth again. Ministry of Culture €45 million more. Personally, I say that perhaps too much, that it is here, but also at a number of other ministries, it is still too ballast and it is shared too generously. But when I hear about how culture is taken, probably nobody who attends at least the third grade of primary school is not going together, how it is taken, so it gives a minus, if it is finally plus 46 million euros. 46 million euros more, crying and grinding with the teeth of left opposition parties. And if all these additional funds, i.e. investments in people and not banks, are linked to the end of the European perspective 2014-2020, where, on the one hand, the Left Authority has left us with a lot of manoeuvre so that we can do much more than they have only dreamed, but not done, and if we have in between, I call it the so-called crown perspective, then we can know that we can do much. But we need capable ministers, capable officials, and not least capable citizens. And just when we're with the citizens. In the Municipality of Sevnica we have a meeting of the municipal council tomorrow – otherwise I do not know if I will be present, maybe I will fly to Ljubljana in the morning, then back to Sevnica, and then to Ljubljana – and before us we will have a draft budget for the Municipality of Sevnica for 2021. In this budget, almost a million will be more than half as much as it would be if Prime Minister Marjan Sarec had not thrown his rifles into the corn on 27 January. And it's only based on two facts. One is what the so-called Sharčev government wrote as a figure for the average, and the other is what the Janšev government wrote on average, and we must not forget that it is also in the conclusion or before the adoption of the law on the financial burden of municipalities, which is worth about EUR 75 million, according to the latest data. But once again the unfortunate opposition is not happy because it is given to the municipalities and is obviously not given to the banks. In short, only if we look at these costs through ministries and links to European funds and cooperation with the municipalities can we see that we can look with some positiveism in 2021. But yes, I believe that those who are bitter and do not know how to see good numbers are more afraid. Maybe a few more things. We listened to 10 minutes of crying about how Maribor didn't get anything. There was a Maribor MP who forgot to say that she had been a member of a coalition for two years that gave Maribor nothing. Before that, my fellow Member, Dejan Kaloh, sent me a list of what Maribor gets in the budget and what he gets through European funds that will be either independent or linked to European funds. And he wrote: “Maribor will get quite a bit.” In short, some forget that they were part of a coalition that did nothing and are once again sad and angry because they give each other. But the fact is, if you want to do something, you need to know not only how to talk, but also what to do. That's why I'm going to point out here that Posavia just got something. Not only in the budget for 2021, but also in the budget for 2022. And that we are the SS Members, we are four, two of the coalition, two of the opposition, all those projects or most of those projects that have moved more into the future all the time in the last five, six years – whether we were in 2015 or in 2019, there were still five years before this project – or we will either get them into realisation in 2021 or to the completion of spatial, construction and implementation plans or we will get them out of there deep after 2024 in 2022 or 2023. In short, I hope that the budget for 2021 will not be overbalanced despite the epidemic, but the fact that not only what Umar tells us, especially what the European institutions dealing with these forecasts show us, shows two things. First time. That we are among the better winners of tackling the coronavirus in 2020, no matter what our opposition shouts. And obviously in 2021 we will also be doing this because of these measures, not only in PKP 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, but especially with this budget, we will do it as those on the side of the winners. That is why I believe that this budget plus European funds plus more cooperation with municipalities plus giving money to people and not to banks is a win-win math, and that is why I will support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. First he gets the word, Mr. Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u96	Comrade Lisec is an exemplar example of the rhetoric of SDS and the operation of money in the clouds. No one can tell you to give it to anyone, but you won't give it to anyone, because there's nothing to share! This is what the opposition reminds you of constantly – that you are unrealistic, that you expect money from the European Union that is not. Or you expect more money than you can afford. That's what the European Commission has warned us about, but forget it, it doesn't matter at all. It is obvious, however, that you have been very well abused by congregational councilmen, who are also Members, and by your crucifixions for the careful care of your constituencies. And that's also the only reason why you insist on election districts and just cosmetics. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u97	Just a moment, Mr. Pavšič. I ask my colleagues from the SDS to calm down and not shout when the Member discusses. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u98	Yeah, because people don't hear how every criticism that hits essentially turns into something that shouldn't even have room in this room. It is obvious, therefore, that your lobbying in the budget is only a careful manoeuvre for the careful care of your election thefts and for you to be able to knock on your chest in your own. And I am taking my mission to the national level. This does not mean that I am not helping my congregation, but I am not bragging about it because it is not hygienic because it is wrong. We must take care of everything equally, and this is what the colleague of Divac also warned – that there is no balanced development. And then, this "unfortunate opposition" – no, this opposition is not unhappy, unhappy, but the next coalition that will have to take over this devastation, which you will leave behind with headless indebtedness, without vision, without telling us what you will do tomorrow! The easiest thing to boast about today is that in seven years we will build a highway from Postojna to Jelšan. This project, by the way, has been cooking for 10 years. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm just saying. And whenever you've actually been right in power, there's always been total desolation behind you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Before we continue with the replicas, I do, gentlemen, kindly please, most of you gentlemen, to refrain from commenting and shivering each other, while someone else is discussing it because it is not culturally [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Sir, may I? With this you say your culture, not anything else, and politely ask you to abstain. You've got a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u100	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As I follow this debate, I therefore suggest that you warn my colleague Robert, because what has been happening lately has been caused by him and, consequently, by you. He was dealing with our fellow Member in his debate [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u101	My colleague Podkoršek, this is not a procedural proposal, but it is a replica to the replica. Please state what your procedural proposal is.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u102	I'll finally tell you what I suggest. He has dealt with our fellow Member, Joseph Horvat, who has several mandates in the National Assembly, and is always correct and never offensive. It is not fair for a Member to settle with a colleague who is not in the Chamber. None of us are doctors to know if he's sick or not sick. That's what Mr. Joseph knows. I want him to be healthy. And, Madam Vice President, when you are conducting this meeting, regardless of your colleague's arrival from your party, please warn him. I always respect you when you warn us, both on the left and on the right. You were silent today when he insulted the entire national assembly when he insulted Mr Joseph when he insulted the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, it is the point of the budget for 2021. I therefore suggest that you warn your colleague that we are not insulted by Members and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u103	This is not a procedural proposal and I know that you are aware that this is not a procedural proposal. I've told you more than once, and I'll tell you again. I am trying to be right for everyone, and I am not restricting anyone in his debate and in his views, and I will not interfere with any substantive debate from the Vice-President's office. I have not observed any insults by Mr Pavšić, but it is true that he has explained his views, which are clearly different from yours. I do not consider it an insult, but rather a different opinion. And what you have now done has been abused by a procedural proposal. And Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you're always answering. I politely ask you to stop fooling around, wait for your debate, because this is too much now. At first, I politely asked you to abstain from these comments. You can't hear them on TV, but in this room, which is very acoustic, there's a lot of noise about your loud talk, and there's a lot of shouting. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] And if you do not now, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, make a procedural proposal, I will tell you in advance that I will give you a warning in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now you have three minutes to explain your procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. My procedural proposal is that you, as Vice-President, conduct the meeting equally to all Members, regardless of the political options they come from, whether it is from your party or whether it is from coalition or opposition. I suggest that you are equally honest with everyone and that you follow the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I assess that I am conducting the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And just as the previous discussions of your fellow Members of the SDS Group were not just about the budget, you were talking about the masks, the protests, I don't know what else, I didn't interrupt you, I didn't get involved in your discussions, and I won't, so I won't get involved in the debates of the opposition Members, unless of course it's necessary. And so far, I've estimated that my intervention did not have to do this. Now we have another procedural proposal. Mr. Nick Prebil, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will make a very concrete procedural proposal to my colleagues on the right, and let me just briefly base it. All the time in this national assembly, when someone from the opposition is discussing who is criticising the current authority, not only at this meeting, but also at others, they hear comments and attacks. 75. Article 75 of the Rules of Procedure speaks of a meeting of those who sit up there — and would not now go down in the direction of your Vice-President — and the points of this article clearly state that no one is disturbed by the word. I explicitly take this statement of yours against my colleague Pavšić as a violation of Article 75. Therefore, in accordance with Rules 76 and 77 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you, Sir, to give a warning to colleagues from the SDS party who are in the Chamber for violations of the order and for jumping into the word of a fellow Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u107	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. I will not give a warning, I have given them a warning, and I believe that this will be sufficient at this stage that we have all calmed down a little and we can continue the debate. We have two more replicas. First he gets the word for Dr. Duck's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. After 11 hours, I thought we would finally come to the amendments – because, of course, as a responsible opposition, we are proposing amendments, given the difficulty of the situation, the current coalition and the government can overlook something – but we have a relatively relaxed, unfortunately general debate. In some serious parliaments, the Head of Parliament gives an overview of the budget, two, three key players dealing with macroeconomics and the economy, what they add and then go to amendments. I was upstairs in my office, buddy Lisec, I don't know, but after six years, I've had one of those. Fucking know whether I'm happy or unhappy, whether I'm one or the other – none of us 90 are psychoanalysts or psychotherapists. I don't know, I can't see into your head what you're like, what kind of aggregate state you're in. The thing that stabbed me was: we give this, we give what we give to everyone, we're the best in the universe, up and down. The minister said it well, we're in debt, we're in even more debt. My friend Tomaž, I think you have three sons, I hope they're great, they're healthy, I believe that, I have three children, I've got two more, our grandchildren are gonna pay it back. Let's stop being so puffy, dear God. Any government is the government of all citizens and citizens. This fight, I think we're dying people, we're about to have a thousand dead people, and we're gonna be here, sorry, jerking off, who's got a better blade in the political sandstone. [[…]] Let's wake up now, all together, despite the late hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u109	Thank you very much. One last replica, colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u110	Thank you very much for the replica, Madam Vice President. With Mr Lisce in principle, I do not intend to debate too much, but I will respond to one matter. This: that we are the left party in the List of Marjana Sharcas. By the way, we're the middle party, if you haven't noticed yet. And I also respond to this: that we are all incompetent anyway, I mean, pure losers, incompetent one more than the other, just SDS, and there they are themselves capable. Well, that's what we see today by the number of dead. Someone who has voted against food for all primary school students at a time of distance education will not give me a sense of reason in this House. Now, how much did one SDS member do for Maribor? That's not in the budget. If it's in the clouds somewhere, we'll see what happens. Besides, I'd like to make it out of what's going to happen. By the way, what the government has already put in the budget, if you look at the NRPs, of course you have managed to look at the budget. But this MEP from Maribor can prove tomorrow how much he cares about Maribor by voting for the amendments. Because so far you've shown in the coalition all 99 amendments that you don't care. It's so simple. And by the way, I've been sitting here for 11 hours, and I haven't seen this fellow in this room before today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u112	Maybe just a definition first. No one told anyone that he was a wuss or something, so that's probably some new maribor term. I would point to Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure: each debater has the right to reply to the debate of another debater, as far as this debate relates to his debate, if he considers that his debate has been misinterpreted or misinterpreted. And what the last two Members have afforded is by no means a replica, not a replica, but a new debate. Madam President, please remind them that Members do not use the replica, but at this stage they have the opportunity to re-apply to the debate and defend their interests. Because everything else that Members are talking about is not a replica, but it's just an expansion of the field of debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u113	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. In principle, I agree with everything you have said and read, but it is true that today's debate of all Members has been very broad and you have practically all talked about everything. And I allow the possibility for each Member to recognize and assess that his debate was misunderstood and that, therefore, the Member to whom he is replicating has debated as he did. That's why I'm going to allow these replicas. However, we have another procedural proposal. Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u114	So you, Madam President, as my colleague Tomaž, ask to apologize to me. I was only discussing the budget between half one and one, probably they didn't listen to me. What the Lord has said goes against what I have been discussing at the time. And what I just said is a school replica case. Thank you. Previously, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Trček, because what you have just said, in a slightly different way, I have answered Mr Lisc. I'm assessing that all three replicas were correct, so my intervention is over here. Now, if you'll excuse me, we'll proceed with the debate. Mr Aleksander Reberšek has the floor to prepare Mrs Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I inform all Members and Members that Joseph Horvat is in the highest form of life, that he is perfectly healthy. And I'm asking Ambassador Pavšić if I can give him a picture of Joseph Horvath to put on his nightstand. He dedicated half of his debate to Ambassador Joseph Horvath, as well as to the entire LMŠ Group of Members. And as if that's not enough, you're still active on Facebook and on Twitter, where you're using Facebook profiles to mutilate the name of Joseph Horvat. All of this happened only because you were unable to rule because you threw a rifle into the corn and now the government of Janez Janša. It's simple, and believe me, it's better that way. Believe that this is better, let experts do their job while you are in opposition. I believe it hurts you when you monitor when a hospital is built within 10 days, and I believe that when you get more money from the municipalities, we believe that you are affected by measures that improve the standard of all our citizens. Oh, yeah. The budget that is ahead of us today has been drawn up by the current government. I won't talk much about numbers, because a lot of numbers have been said, but I would point out one problem, and it's called empty populism. In words, we're like people, we're different in actions. I would, however, call on and ask all citizens to assess the parties and Members of the National Assembly when they are in power, and not when they are in opposition and are putting in like legislation when they are putting in like amendments. While you are actually giving people, and while you are making a lot of promises to people, there really is one big difference. Today and tomorrow, we will deal with the budget for the next two years, so to speak, by voting tomorrow, we will also, in some way, bury it. The opposition, however, believes that it will not concrete its populist ideas and will continue to invest the legislation it likes – free urban transport for pensioners, free meals for children in school, even though we first introduced it into the PKP6, renewal of vineyards, free table for children and more. The opposition's own kind of proposals, including the amendments you have tabled in this budget. I've been hearing this practically all day. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you have a lot of suggestions. I wonder where you were 10 months ago when you were in power. What did you do, sleep or what? Where was your sense of co-humanity back then, I'm asking you. You work for pensioners, for example, when you're in power, and not when you're in opposition and investing some kind of legislation and some kind of like amendment. You play when you have cards in your hands, not when you have bad cards in your hands and you bluff – and that's exactly what you're doing now. So let's pour the Slovenians some pure wine. You all know in this Chamber that the government coalition is proposing this budget and we will also support it, as it was prepared by the government. And you, you know exactly, but you have tabled 99 like amendments, the purpose of which is one, and this is your client's and personal pear. I'm sure of that. The budget isn't a bag without a bottom. If you have 100 units and you divide them evenly into 10 users, you can give each user 10 units. You can give someone more, only then you have to take someone else. I guess I'm right. I would give everyone as much as the poverty threshold, of course I would give pensioners higher pensions, young scholarships, employees of higher wages, and I would like them to build more roads, more railways in this country to build more homes for the elderly and to make young people faster to get to the apartment. My dear opposition, to be honest, it just doesn't work that way. But I've been in the National Assembly for so long that I know you well and I know exactly that you're aware of it. I have heard many times today, mainly from an MP who has a red star in his mask, how we will give for the 780 million for the army, but there is no money for health care, for homes for the elderly. However, the truth is that the Ministry of Defence has given 30 million euros for health care. Today, too, health care has received more than 30 million dollars for covidzades. In the coming years, of course, health care will receive much more. And if I draw the line, it's about 100 million a year, which is 1% of the budget, and health is about 3,000 500 million euros, and if you add another 350 million, which health has also received at that time, that's 38% of the state budget, and the defence, once again, is one percent. If someone claims that this is too, simply, really simply does not understand this situation. Security in our country costs something and the decision to enter NATO also. It is certainly not a problem of money for the military and not of money for health care, nor of money for homes for the elderly, nor of money for hospitals, the problem in this country is systemic corruption. There's a big problem here. We do not choose between homes for the elderly, between health care and defence, the problem is that hospitals and homes for the elderly have not been built because the dedicated money has disappeared for all these decades, and the military in fact has nothing or nothing at all. So the problem is the theft of this taxpayer's money. And whoever wants to work for the benefit of the sick and the elderly, let them start directly fighting systemic corruption and help condemn those who have been found with their finger in marmalade. Social threats should not be addressed by taking funds from the security authority, raising taxes and so on, but by preventing crime in health care, social projects, banking, infrastructure and elsewhere. Has the Left Party tried that yet? I don't remember. I can't remember your late performances in the National Assembly. Such a debate, more money for healthcare instead of for the military, naturally falls to fertile ground because people support it, people like to hear it. And Left knows that, and that's easy to say because that's what you like. If Left wanted to change, she'd go to the government. You had the majority of all the customers on your left-hand side, but Levica didn't want to go to the government. Let me ask you why. Because it is much easier to speak, it is more populism to perform than to work. The answer is simple. And so good you didn't go to the government. Micah Kordish also said earlier that we need 50 homes for the elderly. How many have you built? I'm asking you. How many homes did you build for the elderly when you were a supercollient party? Another populism, from which people, hand to heart, have nothing. You also have to ask yourself why you talk about minimum wage, patients, poor people in the left hand. Messengers and Members of the Left, if you want to do what you say, go to the Government. Simple and simple. That's where it's decided. But what you're doing in the opposition is beating an empty straw. I've been listening to this all day, they count the actions, not the nice words and the multi-hour speeches. People just don't have any of it. I just want to say this. The opposition, called LMŠ, SD, Levica and, of course, SAB, has been interpreting the president of SMC and Minister Zdravko Počvalška two months ago due to the perceptions of bad work in the government, and you have also been reading to him a number of other irregularities. I had to sit here all day and listen to how much you read to him. Today, the same opposition invites the same gentleman to his new government. Understand who can. When it comes to taking over power and retaining old privileges, it's good to have everything that comes to those 46 votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have two replicas and, before that, Mr Trček's procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u118	Now I don't know if this is still a debate on the budget for the next two years or what. Now I don't know whether the colleague is in Levica or not, because if the definition of Left is bullshit, this is the school case of Member of the Left. Then I'll have a replica. I mean, let's just point the debate a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Dr. Ducky, I agree with you. The debate was very broad. But as I said at the outset, the debate is very broad all day long, so that if we started to restrict it now, it would not be right for the debaters, because they had the opportunity to debate widely earlier. Mrs. Sukič, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u120	I ask that you somehow tell the MP to apologize to the Left for these indignations that he just shot at us all the time. And in the context of the budget debate, please, no. Let him apologize and act the way he does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, under the rules of procedure, I cannot request an apology from any Member, so this was not a procedural proposal and we cannot treat it as such. We have two replicas. Mr. Pavšić first applied to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u122	Comrade Reberšek, you don't have to worry about anything. You can just keep the photograph of Joseph Horvath on your nightstand. To the evidence of the regret I have heard from this side [[shows with gesture]] and from this side [[shows with gesture]] Just this. It is obvious that you are sitting in your ears and hearing nothing that is being said in this House. I will read to you the magnetogram: "Joseph Horvat (PS NSi): Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Thank you very much to my distinguished colleague Jani Möderndorfer for noticing that I was in my office for health reasons and, of course, following this debate," and so on. So, colleague Horvath himself said that he had medical reasons to be in the office, and I only pointed out that if a colleague got sick, he should go home. If that's an insult, then you just insulted all of Slovenia. But you, not me. It is obvious that you are sitting on your ears and you do not hear a single word spoken in this House, but only those you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u123	Thank you very much. And a replica of Mr. Bandell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Given that he also mentioned the work of the SAB, and because it is so rude, Mr Reberšek, you are literally shy of the opposition, which is working fairly here and I think it is just a reminder of what is right and what is wrong. Yes, it is true that when we were in the government, we literally provided free transport for pensioners in inter-urban transport, we raised the percentage of the dose from 57% to 63%, regular coordination of pensions and more. Okay? That's what you need to know. And you know what's out of your mouth? You've been so loud, you've been through a lot about stopping the 3rd developmental axis, and now you have a chance, you've appointed your vice-president of the party as Director of Dars, and you have a minister. Now it's none of your business to stop the 3rd development axis. Every day you said that, you talked about these barons, who's doing it now, what they're not doing. Now you have a chance, come on, try! We'll see how you succeed in the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We have a replica, an earlier procedural proposal. Mr. Shisko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! It's 8:31 today. I'm listening in here. You're like one of the kids in kindergarten. Instead of sticking to the point that's on the show for 13 hours, you're now with replicas, procedural, procedural, I don't know what you're doing, starting to throw everything in one pile. Let's get real. Today this point is 13 hours, it ends at ten, tomorrow we will continue with a new point that will last 11 hours, and we have three more points. Do you think we're gonna get in here? I don't know what we're getting. We won't. We stick to the topic and move forward with this programme or we will all start with a procedural and procedural proposal, and this item and the meeting will not last until Friday, but perhaps on Monday. That is why I propose, Madam President, that you really know when the border is and that you stop the debater and that we stick to this agenda item. Not that we're gonna cry when we're kids and throw pollen under each other's feet. I think it's time for us to get real and start thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Shisko. I agree that the agenda item is to address the general part of the programme of amending the budget, but I will point out once more, and I appeal to all debaters to stick to the topic, and there will probably be fewer replicas and fewer procedural proposals. Now for the replica, Dr. Duck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u128	First, don't be insulting to children from kindergartens, secondly, I'm serious all the time and I keep thinking, thirdly, this debate, we have given, you have given – no one has given, no citizens and citizens fill the cash registers. The concrete governments and coalitions, with a fig to the opposition, are redistributing this, and we are still in debt. Second story. If someone wants to be a middle party, colleague Alexander, they can't lie like that. You said: "38% of the budget is about health." That's not true. You have summed up the health allowance plus the budget component, which is relatively very small compared to other countries. You know, Austria's Styria at the country level gives half a billion from the country budget more than we give out of the budget. Let's be consistent here, because it's a deceiving across every border. This is the same as I would say, from the budget we give so much pension and count the pension fund I said, but from the budget it's so much for pensions. I mean, let's keep some minimum seriousness when it comes to numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs. Sukič has the floor and the mag is ready. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. This rudeness bears witness a little earlier as to whether you are rude words or sweet words, only these two are possible. But, born golden-haired, you are always bragging about how you offered the opposition partnership, and the ugly opposition, of course, rejected it. But if that were true, then this ugly opposition to anti-Korona measures would not have proposed at least 100 amendments, of which you have adopted exactly one. This time we propose 50 Aja amendments, you two are, well, two. [[…]] This time we propose 50 amendments, and by this logic you will – what? Taken half an amendment, maybe one, and it's called cooperation. So many introductory words, you won't be bragging so much about all the weights. Of course, you are also bragging about this proposal for amending the budget, boasting in broad terms how social it is, how developmental it is, how green it is, even green, and how transparent it is. Well, none of this is really true, and then I'm going to make it very clear that you're not going to say that I'm saying something in three days. Because we're going to look at the intestines of this budget and we're going to see how things are. But you do have a well-oiled pear, and it's just public performances, whatever, what else. For example, what my colleague Horvath said — I am sorry that he is not here at this time — I hope that he is watching us on TV — is not true that this government does not like NGOs. That's what he said. You give them all the money he's got. But I'm going to add, like someone. For example, when the Office of St. Stanislav is the largest recipient of public funds between civil society organisations or when Anton Martin Slomška has more financial resources from the State than the Ski Association of Slovenia, I believe that this seems nice and cool to my colleague Horvat. Not to mention that the largest civil society organization in the country is the Roman Catholic Church, exempt from taxes, and the state is even paying social contributions to priests. That's it. Not to say I'm making this up, it's in the Erar database. See if you don't believe it. And when, for example, Minister Simoniti, on the day of the outbreak and the curfew, at the same time, in the midst of the worst health crisis on the road, throws more than 20 other non-governmental organizations in the field of culture, which are accidentally top-notch artistic and production organisations, but which, of course, are not close to your mile, of course, the picture is completely different. And this same minister also says that he has a discretionary right to decide as a deity the fate of the self-employed in culture, the fate of Slovenian filmmakers and thus the fate or future of Slovenian film. So, respectable as to whom money will be found in this grand budget, but in accordance with the discretionary rights of our ministers. And good-bye, professional. That's what we're looking at, and that's an all-constant phenomenon, all the way from the performance of this government. Let us now take a closer look at the structure of the budget. What is it that is not right in this budget in our view? There will be a marked increase in military funds in the eyes, although my colleague has previously explained to me about some 1% and so on. That's funny. Now I'm going to demente him a little bit. The government of Janez Janša mocks all young people and pensioners without a roof over their heads, mocking all the unemployed, including those who have been newly affected by co-crisis and therefore have lost their jobs, in short, to the people in severe social distress, yet they plan a huge increase in the budget for weapons. This year it will spend €516 million for the military, €2021,636 million, which is 120 million more. In 2022, the budget for the military will be further strengthened to EUR 688 million or an additional EUR 52 million. In two years, the budget for the military will increase by one-third according to the previous year. So much for this poor, modest, small percentage. There's really no means of long-term care. Also, the law on long-term care, which is currently not coordinated between coalition parties or between ministries, the government apparently writes with a fig in its pocket. On the one hand, it declares that it has finally drawn up a systemic solution, and on the other hand, it does not want to finance these solutions either by contributions, because employers oppose it, nor by budgetary means, because it prefers to spend them to buy arms and grant concessions to private parties. The government is on the budget line of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for long-term care, which, according to this government's annual assessment, we need 300 million euros, and for 2021 it has earmarked 23 million euros, and for 2022 only 22 million euros. That's it. Let's get this straight. So that we don't just talk in three days, and these are specific numbers, let the minister tell me if I'm wrong. You say you'll finally build a home for the elderly. According to the ideas of Bojana Beović, the candidate for the President of the Medical Chamber – I don't know if she has become this in the meantime because I'm not following – and your co-worker experts, that doctors should take care of their elderly colleagues by organizing a home for disabled doctors, we can probably expect such an elite home for elderly doctors. Is there anything we can expect? We don't know because it's all in the air because they're all just some promises that aren't really tangible right now. There is also no bloodthirsty means of investment in health care, although you are constantly deceiving them. Let's see. When planning huge investments in the Slovenian Army in health, virtually no new investments are planned, but only an additional EUR 30 million are planned to complete existing investments. The budgets for 2021 and 2022 do not even provide the means to build the necessary infectious clinics in Ljubljana and Maribor. For all health investments, only €60 million is allocated to the budget for 2021 and €61 million for 2022. This is annually more than half less than in the period between 2021 and 2027, with an average of €130 million annually planned for weapons. Do you think that's a good relationship? Investments in superfluous infrastructure in health care are half as low as investments in weapons, which will once be brown in a few years in some waste. There's no funds for non-profit housing. At the funny low level, there are also many other items that need to be strengthened. For example, housing has €6 million in the 2021 budget and €7 million in the 2022 budget. According to the Housing Fund, 9 000 100 public rental apartments are currently missing for the most vulnerable. Of that, just in Ljubljana, I think, about 4 grand. There are not enough resources for public scientific and research activities, although you are also misleading them here. Let's see. At the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, you increase the scientific research activity by 21 million according to the adopted budget for 2021, but you forgot to say something. It should be borne in mind that the Government, with the 2020 budget rebalancing, has taken away 23 million euro from this item. So what happens if we add this up a little bit? So the means for scientific research will no longer be, but in fact less. In addition, it should be borne in mind that a good part of these funds, instead of unduly flowing into public scientific activities, into research projects for the purposes of private capital. In this context, it is significant that next year a new line for a scientific research activity of €43 million is opened at the Ministry of Finance, which is not actually a competent, respected minister for this activity. I don't know how you're going to comment on that. In short, the government of Janez Janša understands science as a financial investment and a means of commercialisation in the service of capital, but not as an activity of critical reflection of society and research in the public interest. Now, my dear fellow Reberšek is going out because I'm probably talking such nonsense that he can't listen to them. Reduction of funds for compensation to the unemployed. Let's see what's going on here. It is also worrying that the budget cuts of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities – listen to this – are planned to compensate the unemployed in the situation we are in. According to the evaluation of this year's implementation, in 2021 the funds for this purpose will be reduced by €13 million, in 2022 by an additional €25 million. Are you kidding? In a situation where there will be more unemployment due to co-existence of the crisis, you radically cut the funds for transfers to the unemployed. It's a joke from people! And you're going to say that you work for people, how good you are for people? I mean, it's a shame, literally, whatever you can afford. What is most worrying is that we have 2 billion unexplained assets on covid-19 and essentially the privatisation of the state budget. As early as March this year, the government granted itself, by means of the Law on Public Finance Interventions, a literal absolute right to redistribute the rights of use on a voluntary basis without Parliament's approval and without any restrictions. Since Parliament has no longer decided on the use of budgetary resources, the Government has actually privatised the budget. Well, say what you want, that's it. It was no longer a matter of public spending of public funds, since, according to the new ruling political class, he had the power to use public funds as his private property. That is why we have witnessed the sewerage of funds from the budget reservation and other budget items to the Department of Trade Reserves, from which public money flowed into the pockets of private intermediaries near the government summit of Janez Janša, who used the health and economic crisis also for what profits, right? The budget documents not only reflect the wrong political priorities of this government but also reflect the authoritarian and conspirative way of ruling it. Already in the 2020 budget rebalancing, the Ministry of Finance has provided €1.6 billion in funding, which is 11% of the overall budget spending planned to manage the epidemic. Neither to the Assembly nor to the general public [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please don't bother me, fellas. Look, I didn't bother anyone. I listened to everything. Not even the general public has explained for what and how it will spend these funds. You are therefore continuing this practice, as you are also providing an additional EUR 500 million at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology for the year 2021 and an additional EUR 50 million at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Always boast about how successful and effective you are and how your budget is in this direction. Is that true? Let us look at the example of the so-called success and effectiveness of this government, the boasting of a lie-based government. On the official profile, say, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities on 9 November, a few days ago, you tweeted that the results of your actions were visible, as unemployment has been declining since the outbreak began. In the publication you shared a graphic representation of the number of registered unemployed from the end of May to the end of October this year. From the end of May to the end of October this year – then the number of registered unemployed has really dropped slightly, but you forgot that this number has not decreased since the outbreak began, i.e. since March 12th. And of course you're covering this up because we had a situation in May when unemployment was, I think, more than 20% higher than in the same period last year. So don't joke, no. According to the Employment Office, the number of registered unemployed persons registered this year, including those who have been registered as active job seekers at the Institute, was the highest at the end of May and has fallen since July. However, at the end of October, 83 thousand,654 job seekers were reported at the Institute, almost 5,000, 800 more than at the beginning of the epidemic. And so on. It could go further into the structure of these people, and so on, let's say that among the economic sectors, the decline in employment compared to the previous year was the largest in real estate operations, where in August there were slightly more than 4 000 600 people employed, which was almost 30% less than in the same period last year, in other business activities, such as employment and tourism agencies, there was a decrease of 11.6%, and in the restaurant there were 6.2% fewer people and so on. And now you would radically reduce social transfers for the unemployed when you see what kind of crisis we are in. Now we're in the second wave, he'll be able to follow the third wave, and we don't know what that means, how many people are going to lose their jobs. But no, you've decided, despite your incredible, heavy millions on the item, which is undefined, you'll do it and you'll do it to people, I don't know, completely ruin lives if they're not already destroyed. Well, I hope that at least the flow of money from the new SURE instrument to finance, maintain jobs and support people at risk of unemployment will help to reverse or facilitate this curve. Let's go back to the deceptions I had just illustrated. So you're talking about efficiency, you're talking about the direction of the budget for people. I mean, please, come on. In the draft budgets for 2021 and 2022, I do not see enough resources to strengthen public health or long-term care and not other pillars of the social state. However, I see plans for absurdly high expenditure, for completely unnecessary weapons that do not serve the security of citizens, but for the interests of foreign arms corporations. That's really sad. And you keep moving cold here and selling literally pumpkins here. During the biggest health, economic crisis in the history of independent Slovenia, hospitals are in fact at risk of underfunded funding, older people are at risk of a manoeuvring beds in nursing homes, young manoeuvring apartments, and workers are at risk of manoeuvring jobs and low wages. But this is, of course, all the lateral significance for John Jansha. At the time when Slovenia is not at least militarily threatened and record budget deficits are recorded, it will provide EUR 780 million to Defence Minister Matthew Tonin. And my friend Reberšek will say: 1%, what is this? For the purchase of armor, ammunition and weapons of heavy helicopters. In the same breath, for example, the Minister of Economy would freeze the minimum wage, which is already legal and agreed. Well, I hope you don't follow all these brilliant holiday ideas – at least you won't follow that. But if you're gonna do it again, then you're even winners. So in the opposition, we're always trying, we're putting amendments, now we're really into dozens, hundreds of amendments, and you're just nothing. And then you're gonna yell and yell at me like we're not cooperating. Please, come on! After all this espionage and unconsciousness, of course, our proposals may seem completely irrelevant to you – yet, of course, because you are the only one who knows everything – even if they touch the appearance of something small, but for the everyday life of people there are still some important things. Which would be under such a budget, even if we are currently not bound by the fiscal rule, it would be easy for you to do so if you just wanted to or had a hearing. Because life is not at risk, respectable, only covid at this moment, we are threatened by many other diseases. I am concerned about the fact that one third of diagnosed cancers are less than one third. This moment in the country does not mean that one third of the less people have cancer, it just means that the system is no longer coming and that it simply cannot diagnose all these people anymore. And instead of investing in it — no, we prefer to invest in weapons. After all, life is threatened by accidents, such as fires, so we have firefighters who sacrifice themselves for us. But what do you do? In all your epoch budget, you do not find a pool of €252 000 to co-finance the construction of, say, a fire rescue centre in Postojna. And even though this change should have been found literally a long time ago. I know this is funny to you, but we are actually insisting in Levi that this story should be closed, so together with the Social Democrats and the LMŠ we are proposing the next amendment. We demand that the Ministry of Defence stick to the agreements on the fire rescue centre in Postojna, so that it does not only adhere to the agreements on its obligations to NATO. We therefore propose that the State provide 252 000 euros for the payment of the promised co-financing of the fire rescue centre, which should have been provided by the Ministry long ago by the end of the 2020 calendar year, at least now. For the Ministry of Defence does not wish to order this money, it is argued that there is no legal basis until, of course, the Municipality of Postojna with the Ministry has concluded a new cooperation. In fact, it is a bare blackmail by which the Ministry wants to get its approval from the municipality for further military activities in Poček. And that's what the local population is opposed to, and of course you have a problem at the Ministry and you're not going to help these firefighters, not at all. Even if it's a change. However, at its fifth regular meeting, on 16 May 2019, the Defence Committee, by 13 votes in favour and none against, decided to invite the Ministry of Defence to settle its obligations. The decision was also supported by the current State Secretary for National Security in the cabinet of Prime Minister Jan Mahnic, in his capacity as Member, interestingly, and I quote: “I must say that I will support the Third Decision of the Left to call on the Ministry of Defence to settle all financial obligations that have been incurred before the Municipality of Postojna and have not been settled.” End of story. Now Secretary Mahnic is in the opposition and I wonder if you, his colleagues, and he still stands by these words. We therefore propose that these EUR 252 000 for co-financing the construction of the fire rescue centre in Postojna be provided from your undefined item to finance the covid-19 epidemic at the Ministry of Finance. Since your government has already parked as much as € 1.6 billion in the 2020 budget balance under the Ministry of Finance, that is to say 11% of the overall budget spending planned for covid-19 financing, and you have never really explained to the National Assembly or the general public why and exactly how you will spend these funds. You're not. But you can move here a hundred times now, you're not. And with this practice you continue, you obviously intend to continue next year. And of course, as I said before, in the proposal for the state budget, for 2021 there is a total of around €800 million in expenditure to limit the effects of covida-19, of which 500 million on the Ministry of Finance item, with no specificity and justification for spending, so that you can easily take, Minister, these 252 000 euros and finally put them where you should have put them long ago. Believe me, you won't know each other. And you're also going to do a little bit of editing for covidcrisis, after all. As we say, it's not just the covid virus that's deadly, but we're threatened by a lot of other things, including fires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The Minister has made a statement. Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I called because there was a lot of inaccuracies in this last debate. Much inaccuracies have already been made on the basis of what has actually been read, as I understand all read, including with regard to funds. If I look at this, a lot of figures have been given, especially for those relating to science relating to social issues and so on, I would like to provide factual information on how much resources are allocated to individual budget programming directions. I will focus mainly on social, science, as will be said. But you can go to any other area. We're looking through the programming circuits. First of all, let me explain why there are some funds at the Ministry of Finance for other purposes. Because we are talking about European funds and the Recovery Fund. Various projects will be financed through this Fund. That was said here today, it's a purely technical matter, it's verifiable. So here this needs to be taken into account, these funds are new and these funds are, given that the Ministry of Finance will also have a role, particularly with regard to payments, here, these funds are also for other purposes, not only for the Ministry of Finance. And that was already said today. When we talk about the programme budget, let's talk about science and information technology. It's a comparison. Year 2019 279,8 million, budget balance in 2020 353 million 734 thousand 936. Draft budget 2021 493 million 497 thousand and so on. This is the programme part of the budget, which, of course, needs to be read, because science and technology are at different levels. Within the framework of science and the information society, scientific research activity, realisation in 2019 236 million, budget rebalancing 2020 272 million. Draft budget 2021 359.8 million, supplemented by draft budget in 2022 411 million. This is other information that you provide. I mean, there's also a little bit here, I'm sorry, Madam Members, a little bit insulting looking at everything we're giving here or elsewhere. Support for technological development projects within the framework of science, the information society. Implementation in 2019 33 million 758, budget rebalancing 2020 67 million, draft budget 2021 95 million. Now, see 67, 95, 33, 67 — you can count the percentages here or whether it doubles and how much is actually given for these purposes. All you have to do is look at this budget through the programmes. You can have any software guidance you want, I'll give it to you. Now I'm going to go to Culture and civil society. [[…]] Implementation in 2019 202 million, rebalancing 2020 220 million. Draft budget 2021 268 million. The difference between 2019 and the draft budget for 2021 is 66 million. If we move on. Programmes in culture and the media. Then I'm still divided down by area. Implementation 2019 104 million, rebalance 2020 115 million, draft budget 151 million. Social security, about how much we give for social security. Total social security, implementation in 2019 of 279 million, budget rebalance 2020 370, draft budget 2021 billion 481, for 2022 billion 486. It is said that from a billion 279 to a billion 481, 200 million more in two years for total social security under the programme. Social assistance, within the social security framework of social assistance. Realisation 2019 441 million, budget balance 455 million, draft budget 2021 470.9 million and so on. Money social assistance, which you've been talking about. Realisation 2019, this was then the budget of another government, 321 million, rebalance 332 in 2020, draft budget 2021 346 million. So this data shows another picture for these areas that I've just dedicated to, which you've been talking about. You've been talking about other areas, we can go across all areas, the numbers are big. But that's what we're talking about programmes and when you say that there's no strategy when you say that it's not a socially oriented budget when you say that we're in crisis and it's less social, from this perspective I'm actually saying that. The numbers only show content, I'm not saying that that's all that's without content. But here I would point out that these numbers are read in software, it is said to actually merge and to look at the whole budget, all the third part, in short also the whole program part, to actually operate with the numbers they hold. Then there is, in my humble opinion, no tendency to conclude. I said very nicely, tending conclusions, I didn't say they were wrong or any of them pointing in a certain direction. So much so, Madam Member, just for clarification and information, with a degree of tolerance, but to talk about the right numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u134	Dear Minister! If you've listened to me, I said: according to the evaluation of this year's realisation, in 2021 the unemployment allowance will be reduced by €13 million, by an additional €25 million in 2022. Let me tell you that Umar estimates that registered unemployment will increase and that it will rise from 9.1% to 9.5%. It is necessary to look at the trend that is taking place, to understand that the crisis will lead to additional unemployment, and in this regard, the funds will obviously decrease in view of these projections. That's one thing. Second thing, the Ministry of Culture, you said. Look, I heard Minister Simoniti in my own ears, can you hear me? [[advertising from the hall]] I heard Minister Simoniti talking about his discretionary rights in my own ears. He's going to allocate funds like someone else. I told someone, I didn't argue that there was less money in culture, I just said that these discretionary rights are an exception to the problem. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Your time's up. We continue the debate. The last one in this circle has the word mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u136	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The government of Janez Janša and the coalition of parties of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Modern Centre and Desus have shown already this year that it works mainly for people and that it takes measures for people. I am convinced that the changes in the budget for 2021 and in the budget for 2022 make it clear that measures and figures speak for the benefit of action for the people. If we have solved financial institutions in previous crises, I am sure that both the 2021 amending budget document and the 2022 budget sees that we are taking action on people here. The covid virus has shown that this is not only a threat to health, health, but that co-vid is also a crisis for the economy, economy and job conservation. I am convinced that the measures taken so far by this government have confirmed the National Assembly that anti-Korona packages are the ones that ensure that the economy has not collapsed and that the economy will not collapse in the future. Both the change in the budget for 2021 and the budget for 2022 say that we will have a functioning and successful economy and that we will have a stable health system. Despite all that has been said today, I have the feeling that there is considerable anxiety in the opposition and that you are trying, in particular, to reduce the effectiveness and effectiveness of the government of Janez Janša, which is manifestly on the ground. Today we could have listened to a series of deceptions here. The type of deception was also on the side of my previous pay phone. The Minister of Finance told her the numbers, you're mostly tricking her with numbers. For example, colleague Violeta Tomić has been able to afford through today's debate that the Ministry of Culture will not receive any money. The Ministry of Culture will receive €46 million more than the 2021 budget, which was adopted under the government of Marjan Šarc and then Finance Minister Bertonclje, and the Ministry of Culture will fully receive €237.9 million by amending the budget for 2021. €237.9 million. We have listened to a number of deceptions today, and I really feel that this anxiety by opposition Members is rising from day to day. Other deceptions, as we have heard – colleague Divac Mirnik, Maribor probably existed in last year. And this budget that we are discussing today has been prepared by your government, by Finance Minister Bertoncl. Today, however, we have this change on the table, and even then this Maribor was not inside. Maribor was also able to be taken care of by this government by raising averages. PKP2, anti-korona package 2, raised the averages to the municipalities. From this title alone, Maribor received approximately EUR 3.3 million. The average increase is expected and is also foreseen to amend the budget for 2021 and for 2022. This government is aware of the need for higher funds for the congregations to be able to carry out all the tasks assigned to them by the Government. The previous government didn't realize it. She didn't want to hear it. The local community is important to this government, and therefore we are allocating considerable resources to it, including by increasing the averages. And once again, I answer to my colleague Mirnik, in the title of the antikoronic package 2, the increase in the average of municipalities, Maribor received 3.3 million euros more. Approximately 400 million will be more for the pensioners. I am sure that this government will take care of those most vulnerable groups: pensioners, employees, the economy, health care. In fact, all consumers of budgetary money will be entitled to higher resources. We are aware that only a functioning and successful economy can come out of this crisis, in which not only Slovenia, but the whole world, has fallen. I am sure that the success of the government's actions is discussed by the fall of gross domestic product in Slovenia this year compared to other countries of the European Union and Europe. This fall is significantly smaller. And that this fall is not so drastic that it is not as deep as it is in other countries, it is mainly due to these measures taken. Just for intermezzo. Next week, the National Assembly will be considering anti-Korona package number 6. And this antikoronic package number 6 is worth 1 billion. One billion euros will be made available again for – who? To contain covid virus, to preserve jobs, for the most vulnerable groups and for health care. Here today, we hear from the opposition that this government does nothing. This government offered the opposition, the opposition parties in May, a deadline for cooperation, and the signing of an agreement. This agreement was signed by only one party, the Slovenian National Party, all other parties refused this agreement – List of Marjan Šarc, Social Democrats, Levica. You refused. But despite your refusal to cooperate, we have taken into account a significant part of your proposals in anti-Korona packages from 1 to 5. But the fact is, the budget is, I'd say, a government document. A government document that dictates what path this government has chosen. And I am convinced that the government has this right to think differently than the opposition thinks, and that the government is allowed to give part of the funds to others than the opposition thinks it will give it. Ladies and gentlemen, you had this opportunity, and one year ago we were adopting your budget, and then the month of January came, but when you resigned or resigned, the President of the Government. This change in the budget – I find it difficult to accept criticism that it is not socially oriented and that it is not development-oriented. See, the 2021 budget was assessed by last year's Minister of Finance, Bertonzel, to be very social and also developmental. It was confirmed by 49 Members and LMŠ, SD, SAB and I think it was supported by the SNS at the time. Today, a substantial number of funds for social and substantially more resources for development are being allocated to the amending budget. And you say the same Members that this budget is not socially oriented and is not development-oriented. It's hard to understand. Take a look at the debates you had in the adoption of the budget for 2021 and the statements made by the then Minister of Bertonzel. I am sure that the path chosen by this government, this coalition, is appropriate for it to be the right one. Finally, the opposition's proposals in the anti-Korona packages were welcome, were also taken into account and I am sure they will also be taken into account in the future. The budget we have on the table is a government document. On the Committee on Finance, we argued why these amendments were not supported. I am confident that, for the realisation and implementation of this proposed budget, the changes to the budget for 2021 and 2022 will be very important for the effective use of European funds. Slovenia has €1.1 billion available from the SURE programme, which is the funds earmarked for businesses to maintain jobs. From now on, Slovenia can draw 200 million euros. I am confident that the government of Janez Janša and this coalition will make effective use of these funds, as well as to produce an effective, quality recovery and resilience plan of EUR 5.2 billion, of which € 1.6 billion is non-refundable and € 3.6 billion is recovered. I also do not understand the attack by two opposition parties, notably the SAB and the LMŠ, that the Government of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan has not prepared. This plan is being prepared, none of the deadlines are overdue, the Government has made it clear that this plan will be ready by 1 December, and last but not least, the deadline for the submission of this document is the following year, April 2021. I'm sure the opposition here isn't playing the right game, they're deceiving the public. Last but not least, if the government of Marjana Sarca and those coalitions were known for what they were known for, it was known that you had covered the entire line in drawing European funds and that there had never been such a poor flow of European funds under your government. Last but not least, you have changed three ministers in this area in a little over one year of rule. I am convinced that one of the priorities of this government – in addition to bridging the covid-19 virus, helping the economy, helping the employees – is certainly also drawing on European funds. Finally, Slovenia will have to take care of a significantly higher productivity than it has. I am confident that we will be able to achieve productivity gains with a thorough reorganisation of the labour market, with tax reform, without which it will be difficult. And I'm sure this government, this coalition, is capable of making these moves. Last but not least, the government of Marjan Šarc – despite having all the conditions of economic growth, abundance, you have not decided to implement any reform that would probably be significantly easier, significantly easier under the conditions of power than you have had. Certainly there is a need for a clear demographic policy before this government. Here are the changes necessary, and I am convinced that both the 2021 budget changes and the 2022 budget see the direction in which this government's demographic policy is based. This government will also have to take care of the arrival of foreign investors, if not to us, foreign investors will go to their neighbours, and it will also have to prepare an environment for the entry of new companies. I am sure that just keeping jobs will not be enough and that it is absolutely necessary to raise revenue in this budget. The fact is that the situation is unstable, that the risks are significant, that the covider-19 is not only facing Slovenia, but that it is facing the whole of Europe, the whole world, and not least, a number of countries have also taken the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia. Once again, I am convinced that the amending budget document for 2021 and the budget for 2022 are in the right direction. The orientations are primarily aimed at bridging the covid-19 virus, which is intended for a functioning and successful economy, for a stable health system and for all measures taken, are intended primarily for people.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First of all, Mr. Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleague Marko Pogačnik! You mentioned several times how much Maribor got. I'm not from Maribor, but I'm referring to the congregations. We have to be consistent here. All the congregations received more with the same cut. If the municipality of Maribor received more than once, say, my Municipality of Slovenj Gradec, then you could boast that you gave Maribor a little more. So that's it. Of course, all the congregations received a higher average, that is a fact. What you've read to the opposition is that you haven't given any more. Of course you did. I personally claim, as well as the LMŠ, that you have given too much depending on the sustainability of the public budget. For the revenue does not follow the expenditure in this public work, if we now consider investment and expenditure for cod. This is the kind of thing that we read — that we spend too much at all ends. For if there is no covida – this already shows the budget in 2022, but we are not yet considering it today, we will talk about it tomorrow – it would be clear that there is a deficit from this. When you saw it, the government of Mariana Sharca, how we did business at the time. We were doing business with another formula back then. It was a very good economic growth, twice as fast as in the European Union, or three times faster than in Germany after 2014, and this was happening until 2019. To talk now about the fact that the government of Marjana Sarca did not give – but every year it was growth, we gave as much as the economy created, and we cared for a publicly sustainable budget, we respected the sustainability of the debt, the Maastricht criteria, and we only got as close as the agreement was then, or the European Commission, what it demanded from this debt. We took care of all of this and also returned Slovenia's nominal debt after many years, we reduced it by 620 million. These are the facts. And please, we can't fool. I'm for being honest. What happened was what it wasn't, it wasn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Marko Bandelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Pogačnik! The biggest misdirection of Slovenia, indeed the biggest fraud at national level, if you say so, is to boast of one budget based on debt. Is he okay? And you can brag about how you help everyone here in the country, but based purely and exclusively on borrowing. In debt because you can be indebted for such and other consequences that the coworker has caused because you can overstep and no longer follow the Golden Rule if you say so. In this way, everyone can draw up such a budget and boast. You're doing an election campaign. Because you're doing a purely electoral campaign, that's all. And it's very interesting to look at investments, in infrastructure, really, how you've put all the circles where you fit in, put them in the plan, wherever you need to, by chance, exactly where you're in your neighborhoods. That's very interesting, too. And you know what happens to those 10-and-a-half billion you're boasting about? 2 billion and there are so many non-refundables, everything else is nothing, there are repayables, there are loans and there are as many as we have to pay in Europe. So don't talk to me, not fool me, so rudely deceive people, because we're not all idiots. We know what we're doing here! Do you understand me or not? Mr. Pogačnik, you speak nicely, calmly, as you need to, and then people almost believe you, you know? Just not us. And it's all based on borrowing. And what we did, what we drew – from 14% to 34. And you've done 9% more in nine months. Your minister bragged yesterday that he'd be 50 by the end of the year, and now he's 44. That's a fact. That's a fact, that's numbers. And what else did he brag about? That he signed the support decisions. You know what support decisions are? Nothing if the projects aren't built. Nothing at all. That's what it says. You've done one big nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We're done with this round of debaters. If it's still an interest, I'm opening a new ring of applications. [[Yeah.]] Please sign in. We have two discussers. The first one gets the word, Mr Andrej Chernigoj, prepare the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u142	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Once again, I thank you for your word after quite a few hours of discussion. The invisible enemy covid-19 virus, which has made a good difference in our lives, has radically changed the budget objectives of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, 2021. An invisible enemy, who is also unpredictable, is using the opposition and trying to present the government's budget in a bad light. I believe or believe that today's budget for 2020, 2021 expresses optimism for the economy, expresses optimism for each family and expresses optimism for each individual. Before going forward, I am aware that an important part of every budget is also European funds, and I am very pleased today's Twitter by President Ursula von der Leyen of the European Commission, which is why I will also quote and read it, she wrote in Slovenian, which I am very pleased: "Slovenia will today receive EUR 200 million in loans from the SURE instrument, which helps to maintain employment during the pandemic. Support will help to preserve jobs in these difficult times. In total, Slovenia will receive more than €1 billion under the SURE instrument. Europe stands by you." I am very pleased with this tweet, and I must also say that I am pleased that Minister Janez Cigler was the King, whose area is covered by four Commissioners' seats in Brussels, in Brussels, and was well negotiated. Above all, I am pleased that he loved going to Brussels, which many of our ministers have not done in the past. So it looks like he had a successful bargain there, too. The government, with a proposal for amending the budget for 2020, 2021, has proved that it is close to people. This is also our slogan, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, which has proved to be a very important member of this government. As far as the budget is concerned. Never before in the history of Slovenia has any government in a time of economic upheaval due to an epidemic come up with such a large incentive programme. In the past, we had only one incentive. This money went – we all know where, to the banks, because we were saving the banking system. On the other hand, we have proved this time to be able to listen to people and businesses when necessary. Indeed, the country cannot solve every human being and every problem, but with these packages and also with the budget of measures to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, we have captured larger groups of people. Statistics show that so far we have maintained over 300,000 jobs, many businesses, protected families and many measures have also taken care of the most vulnerable. That's what we say. We knew by means of measures and were part of an epidemic. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we believe in the potentials of each of us. People need space and freedom to develop their talents, and the country must not interfere. We see the country as an entity we need for security, as a safety net we get caught in if we fall and then we bounce again. This is the task of the State and we believe that this budget is a reflection of this, so we have agreed to such broad programmes of incentives. In this crisis, we see the crucial role of the country, which must ensure an effective and functioning security network for all people. If the economy works, it is positive for all of us, so we are on the side of people and on the side of successful and creative Slovenia. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that we can restore dignity to people only if we allow them to work and additional jobs. That's how I'm gonna do it. Today, many numbers have been mentioned. I am pleased that this is so because we are talking about the budget and this is not a debate cycle. However, since there have been a number dropoff, I will allow myself to give some numbers again. In the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, 2021 at the exhibition according to the budget of the previous government we provide an additional 54 million for social protection programmes, disabled persons, total 85 million. Let's move on. We provide 244 million to regulate development in the field of health, which is said to give additional resources to health. Let's move on. 19 million for investment investments in health care, totaling 53 million euros. 35 million for waste water management, total 53 million. In the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, 2021 we have not forgotten and dedicated an additional 5 million to incentives for employment, together we have dedicated 60 million. An additional 10 million for education and training of healthcare professionals, an additional 19 million for support activities in the field of education and sport and an additional 35 million for the development of broadband networks. I hope that such articles, that countries do not seem to move, that more than 800 households are online stone age, will no longer be in the right hands of these 35 million and that these regions, these places, which have developed in the so-called online stone age, will develop. Let's move on. An additional 15 million for the protection, rescue and relief system, 34 million for rural development. I am pleased, I come from Illyrian Bistrica alone, from the municipality at the Slovenian-Croatian border and the resources for rural development are very happy and I am very much in favour of the budget. 46 million for culture. We also have culture, resources for culture don't grow, they grow. 10 million for personal assistance, 40 million for research and development. A total of 250 million. And 39 million for new businesses and their growth. And we're not done here. In the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, 2021 we provide an additional 62 million for the infrastructure and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, 15 million for the efficient use of energy and renewable energy, 11 million for the completion of two and the start of the construction of five homes for the elderly. Look, I've been listening all day, and I've been trying to be very calm, and I've listened with all due respect to each other. But the last home built in the country was in 2008, a few years ago. A colleague from the extreme left who is trying to present that this government has done nothing in this direction has just graduated when the last home was built. This government has committed a lot of resources to the local government. Let me just say two things. 84 million more for higher average municipalities. This will be – let's say one example, previously mentioned by colleagues to the municipality of Maribor, to say only for the Municipality of Illyrian Bistrica, Illyrian Bistrica will receive 600 000 euros more in the budget, and this is a lot of money, and the municipality will be able to make a lot of money for citizens and citizens. In addition, we added 350 million from the state budget for municipal investment. I've got something else written here. I'm really sorry, but Mr Robert Pavlovich, my colleague is not here, I hope he's driving home on the highway and listening to this debate over the radio. In his debate, he mentioned that I should thank him for commending me for somehow putting the Postojna-Yelšany highway out of some closets that were dusty, raised and put again in government drawers. And we're talking about him, so I have to thank him very much here. But I would be very happy, I am only a Member for seven months if he could have worked on this project two years earlier. So maybe I'll just give him one such beautiful quote: ora et lab. In Slovenian: pray and work. This quote was made several times by Dr. Andrej Capuder, First Minister of Culture and Ambassador. Just for closure. In Novi Slovenije – we look to the future of Christian Democrats and we want Slovenia to have a successful economic development. The knowledge that we have written into the best economic programme of political parties in Slovenia is included in the work of the Government, budget 2021, in the economy and all individuals. I believe that with this budget the future of Slovenia is bright, so I will be very pleased to support the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u143	Thank you very much. First of all, we have Mrs Sukič's procedural proposal, which I am warning in advance not to abuse the procedural proposal. Since you no longer have time for the replica, please be correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u144	I'll do my best. That's my procedural proposal. The President, I ask you to remind the Member that there is an ethical code, which he has probably supported, that he has adopted this code, and that he is using it in his implementation, not that he regrets the absent Member of the Left, that he was a graduate. I mean, what if he was a senior? I mean, something. In short, a very offensive approach and I ask that you remind him of some ethical code, that we will finally start to stick to some of them too. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sukich. I did not think that the discussion of the predecessor would be offensive in any way, including with regard to this graduate label. So your procedural proposal is not in place. But we have a replica. Mr. Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Chernigoy! I am pleased that you have listened to the debate all day, but there is a difference between listening and understanding. What I was talking about in my debate, I was talking about drawing up European funds, about refunds and grants. I think there are certain concepts to be clarified here. You obviously don't understand. For the SURE programme grants are grants, the Republic of Slovenia has not received them, but has given a guarantee for this. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mag. Marko Pogačnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u148	Madam President, once again, thank you for your word. I will now use these last 15 minutes in particular to refer to these two debates, conducted as a replica by my colleague Bandelli and my colleague Lenart. Comrade Bandelli, we, with these budgets, the amendment 2021 and for 2022, do not boast, but we only report, tell citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the economy what we intend to do. What this government has done is somehow partly evident from the 2020 budget rebalancing and, I would say, for two very important events. One event is the increase in ratings received by Slovenia by Moody's. This gave a clear signal that Slovenia is trustworthy, that was a signal for investors, that Slovenia has stable public finances and that public finances will remain stable in the future, that Slovenia has a stable banking system and that Slovenia remains a credible country in these difficult times. This, however, can be partly commended, I would say, is also thanks to this government that the measures have convinced Moody's credit rating agency to raise Slovenia's rating for one rating, namely A3. Another important argument or benchmark, as we can call it, is, of course, a comparison of the fall of gross domestic product in 2020. Slovenia notes a minor gross domestic fall from most of the countries of the European Union, Europe, the world, and this is certainly an indication that this government is working successfully and that the measures taken are successful, and it welcomes them, I would say, the economy too. And last but not least, in all these measures, one part of the opposition has also helped. For one part of the proposals was also made by the opposition. However, the change in the budget for 2021 is mainly reflected in the way this coalition and this government have envisioned. However, it is clear from these two documents that this government will do everything in its power to contain the covid-19 virus, to have a functioning and successful economy, to have a stable health system and to help the most vulnerable groups. All these measures, which are being taken, are being taken for the people and for the economy. Five anti-crisis crown packages have been adopted in this House. Next week, the sixth is being adopted with the value of €1 billion, and the government has already stressed that a new, seventh package is being prepared, which is necessary in these situations. And those are the numbers. I hope that, with the help of the opposition, we will also be able to achieve these objectives, which are set out in the 2021 budget change and in the 2022 budget. For all these objectives are aimed at a higher standard of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, not only this coalition, but it is a higher standard and a better life for all. We had a debate today. The debate, however it may have been - I am sure that everyone has the right to an opinion, the Government, but the coalition is responsible for preparing this document. And these two documents for 2021 and 2022 clearly show the priorities of this government, these coalitions. We're doing our best to beat this covid-19, but I'm sure only with the covida-19 measures will not be able to beat it. These measures will have to be respected, taken into account, and I am convinced that we can help all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve this problem that we have fallen into together. And that's why I'm calling: let's pay attention, let's try to make this cobbler beat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-17-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I ask if there is still interest in the debate. [[No, no, ……]] If not, then we'll close the debate. The vote on the general part of the draft amending budget will be held on Wednesday 18 November in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Since we are just before the end of the meeting, I propose that we end at this point and continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good evening, everyone!
