ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 18th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Susana Lepi Šimenko, Nick Prebil from 10.30 p.m., Nada Brinovšek, Iva Dimic from 10 p.m. on, mag. Carmen Furman, Eva Irgle, Anja Bah Žibert, Franc Rosec, Maša Kociper and Jani Prednik. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to four. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Animals, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Jožet Podgoršk, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u2	Good morning and good morning! In this agenda item, we will consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act. This supplement is prepared to harmonise the Slovenian acquis with the acquis of the European Union. It is necessary to transpose certain provisions of Council Directive 2010/36-EU on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. In the proposal for a law, we are in particular harmonising the following concepts: the procedure used in the existing law is the term experiment; the animals in the process, the existing law applies the experimental animal; and the green organisation where the definition of the directive is substantively aligned. For reasons of clarity, an expression of animal welfare has also been added. We also passed on to the law the definition of animals as sentient living beings from the Real Law Code. Most of the provisions of the Directive will be governed by the Regulation on the conditions for the implementation of animal procedures. Let me mention that the Ministry already has a working group, because we are aware that the Animal Protection Act needs to be regulated in an integrated, comprehensive manner, to answer a number of questions, including regarding animals in shelters, not to mention these details, not to mention the labelling of domestic animals. And since we know that this requires a broad debate, we have decided to change at this time only this part of the European directive, and we hope that by autumn we will be preparing a proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the Animal Protection Act. You have also been a member group and you will be invited to participate in the preparation of these substantive starting points in the future. So much for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, colleague Edward Paulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food at its 18th meeting, on 3. 6. 2020. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legal Service, which, in its introduction from a legal and system-wide perspective, pointed out that the rule of law of Article 2 of the Constitution requires compliance of the legal regime within the legal order and that the Law on the Protection of Animals should be brought into line as soon as possible with the Real Law, which provides in Article 15a for the legal definition of animals as sensitive living beings. The Legislative and Legal Service also made specific comments to each article of the draft law, which were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and which were also adopted by the Committee. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. In the debate of the members and members of the Committee, special attention was paid to the amendments of the SD Group to Articles 1 and 2 proposing to add the definition of animals as sensitive beings in the text of the bill. The representative of the amendment's proposer pointed out in her explanation that the question of the definition of animals as sensitive beings has been up to date for a long time, and the Ministry of Field Affairs has also been called upon several times to ensure that this issue is properly regulated by law. Some European countries that have comparable legal arrangements have already introduced a specific legal situation for animals. Further, the Lisbon Treaty in 2007 recognized animals as sensitive beings. The European Commission also wrote in its Communication in 2008 that animal welfare is a fundamental value for EU citizens. In conclusion of its discussion, the SD Group reiterated its call for representatives of the Ministry to prepare a comprehensive amendment to the law, which will give the animals legal status and legal protection of dignity and will follow more modern legal regulations. With regard to the proposed amendments, she warned the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service that, in the event of the adoption of amendments, all the legal consequences of the amended definition of animals should also be fully regulated. This cannot be remedied in the proposed amendment because many articles are closed and cannot be amended. Following the discussion, most Committee members agreed that the law in force was necessary to amend and prepare a new system law that would adequately address many other open issues, such as the elimination of euthanasia of healthy animals in shelters, the provision of abandoned animals and the prohibition of animal experiments. The members also stressed that only the definition of animals as sentient living beings would not change the position of animals. The Committee supported the SD Group's amendment, proposing a more appropriate terminological definition of sensitive living beings. In conclusion of the debate, the Secretary of State expressed his belief that, while the Animal Protection Act already in force allowed the provision of animal protection under the Constitution. He stressed that the Ministry had already begun drafting a new law, which included a number of stakeholders, both professional institutions, local communities and representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Complex issues need to be resolved so that the drafting of the new system law will be a serious challenge, which will take time, and it is expected that the legislative process will be put into place in October this year. After the discussion, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first word is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. My colleague Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everyone. The main purpose of the novel of the Animal Protection Act, which we are considering today, is to harmonise Slovenian legislation with the European Directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. The proposed amendments shall ensure greater clarity and transparency in the use of animals for scientific purposes. Slovenia has already received an official reminder from the European Commission, which is an additional argument for the urgent adoption of this proposal. Despite the fact that the main reason for the amendment of the law was compliance with the European legal order, most of the discussions on the home labour body took place around the definition of animals as sensitive beings. In the SMC, we never doubted that animals were able to feel, however, when we considered the novel of the Real Law, a few months ago, we received a lot of bad words and attacks, from politics, the media and the public. We are in the SMC and still stand in the position that the definition of animals as sensitive beings, a place in the roof law, that is, in the Animal Protection Act and not in the Real Law Code, which regulates the right of movement and real estate, and we still believe that the definition of animals as sensitive beings in the Real Law Code does not bring any legal improvements. The legal situation of the animals has not changed at all. Animals continue to be treated in the same way as things are. So it's possible to buy them, sell them, flag them. At that time, we were asked what was the purpose of the proposed definition in the Real Law Code. The only answer that we and we still find possible is the political exposure of individual politicians. The fact that the addition of the Animal Protection Act to the definition of animals as sensitive beings has not been given media attention only further confirms our position. The fact is that animals must be given special care because they are able to feel. Therefore, in the SMC we also supported the amendment, which animals, vertebrates, now define as sentient living beings. This is undoubtedly the case, and it should be pointed out that in the SMC we have advocated such an attitude all the time. It is true, however, that even though we Members decide to live as sensitive beings in every law we have in Slovenia, this far from being an improvement in the situation of animals, for which some owners are still ill-caring and mistreated. We can still track too many terrible photographs and recordings of neglected, beaten, abandoned and hidden animals in the media and social networks. For this reason, we have also called on the competent ministry in the SMC to recast the Animal Protection Act as soon as possible. However, special emphasis should also be placed on ensuring that our sensitive animals also receive special protection in practice, which they deserve as our loyal friends. In the SMC, we will unanimously support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you. The word is given by the Left Parliamentary Group, a colleague of Boštjan Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u8	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Personally, I think that all Members in this National Assembly should always be the voice of the weakest and most vulnerable in our society. And among these, the most vulnerable groups are definitely animals. Today's proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act aligns this law with European legislation on the protection of animals in procedures used for scientific purposes. Thus, the essence, as mentioned earlier, is essentially about animal trials or more humane animal trials. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is an animal experiment, even if it is for scientific purposes and is in fact the most widespread form of animal abuse in the world. The problem is that around 115 million animals die in laboratories around the world as a result of these animal experiments. And in Europe, even 12 million. And that means that animal trials are definitely not humane and are actually inhumane. Animal experiments are horrifying, painful and deadly. In these experiments, animals are in fact exposed to unimaginable suffering and pain. The animals are in shock at the time, afraid of them, suffering pain and feeling powerless. In recent times in the world, even in the German part of this health stream or experts, this new wave of research on these studies is, in fact, that, as you would say, they no longer want to carry out animal experiments and actually develop new methods and experiments where they carry out experiments on tissues or blood cells and thus actually ethically satisfy this aspect of animal experiments. Fracois Rabelais [[?]] , who was a poet and a doctor wrote down and said: “Science without conscience is the destruction of the soul.” And in fact animal experiments have already been carried out since the antiquity. In the last century, however, it has been very intense and very aggressive. And I believe that the time is coming or that it is also the right time for humans to return to animals for what they have actually done for us to protect them, for their welfare and for their rights. What kind of society we live in can also be determined by how this society provides or protects nature and how it provides for animal rights and welfare. And a society that takes good care and protects the nature and well-being of animals and their welfare is a human society, because it also takes good care of its people. It also saddens me that, whenever these topics are really nature conservation and even when we talk about the rights and welfare of animals, that these themes are usually in line or between the last or even none of them, and I hope that this will change in the future, because also this crown virus or the outbreak of the virus has shown us that it will have to return to the roots, it will have to return to nature. Animals are sensitive creatures, and in Levica we demand that all animal trials be completely and immediately eliminated and stopped. While this law tightens the rules on animal trials and rights in these procedures, as already said in Levica, we insist that animal testing should definitely be discontinued. That's all there is to it. Because you know now that we've had a lot of problems or even a lot of problems in the media, I'm going to say intolerance to the beast, especially to bears, wolves and jackals and other animals. But I would just say that man will have to start to realize that he is not the only one living in a certain environment, but that the environment needs to be shared with others, beasts, and other animals. It will also be necessary to adapt and actually change our thinking, but I think that even just before the door, and I think that what it requires of us will also be policies, that we accept or that we will agree on a new social agreement or consensus in which nature, of course, animals will play the most important role before capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Collegiate Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia-Christian Democrats Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u10	Your Honor! Today's law under consideration has been tabled by the previous Government at the time of carrying out the ongoing business and the scope of the revision of the directive, which the Republic of Slovenia has not transposed into its legislation. The European Commission has pointed out that the transposition of terms is not in line with the Directive and that the proposed law replaces the experiment with the word procedure or project. More precisely, it is necessary to identify which persons involved in animal treatment should receive specific training. Persons carrying out animal care or killing tasks in approved organisations shall carry out animal welfare procedures, plan and manage projects and persons responsible for animal welfare. The legal basis for keeping records of these persons shall be added and the conditions laid down for legal and natural persons who may exercise training, similarity on training programmes of the lecturers and records shall be laid down by the Minister. The decision-making procedure of the administrative authority on the approval of the project by means of animal procedures should include an assessment of the ethical commission. He can't get approval without her. If withdrawal occurs, this must not adversely affect the welfare of the animal. Given that it is a matter of correcting the inadequate initial transposition of the European Directive into Slovenian law, the Republic of Slovenia was given an official reminder and then a reasoned opinion of the European Commission was originally intended to support the law in New Slovenia. The definition of animals changed with the amendment to Article 2. It now reads: “Animals are living vertebrates other than human beings who are fit to feel because they have developed systems to detect and process painful irritations.” This definition of confession raised not a little dust. If the international achievement of Slovenia was that the United Nations, on the initiative and in the effort of the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia on 20 May, declared world bee day and the bees in the definition of animals in the Animal Protection Act did not receive a city. We may wonder if the bee is not an animal and whether this diligent worker does not even represent a national symbol and pride. We do not agree with this definition in Novi Slovenija. The rush of reckless introduction of sensitive animals seems to have clouded the wider understanding and knowledge of animals, plants, and humans. In New Slovenia we advocate respectful treatment of our environment, fertile land, drinking water and animal life, and diversity of species. Taking care of all of this is our goal, and protecting the environment, animals, species and resources is our common task, which must be pursued by each individual. Since the European Union has areas such as plant health, plant protection products, feed, animal health and animal welfare, food and food, which are governed by uniform principles, it is necessary to consider how these principles will be transposed and implemented in Slovenia. The new regime must be adapted to the size and structure of food establishments and agricultural holdings, as well as to the financial and human resources overrun by Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija we hope for comprehensive reform of the law and today we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you. The word is given by the SAB Group of Ambassadors, a colleague of mags. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u12	Nice hello to you all! Animals were one of the five kingdoms of living beings. Although they were the last of the kingdoms, they are now the dominant forms of life on earth. Studies have shown that nearly two thirds of Slovenians have pets, often treated as equal family members. A strong bond is established between humans and animals, and caring for an animal brings pleasant feelings to us when we accept responsibility for a living creature. Research has also shown that a third of owners have a more genuine relationship with their pets than any human being. Pets fill our social and emotional needs similarly, but not exactly the same as human society. The Law on the Protection of Animals, which is before us, amends or complements only articles relating to the use of animals in proceedings. The proposed amendments and additions are essential for adapting national legislation to the European Community. In the field of animal protection in procedures, and this is not a new law, but only a shorter novelty, mainly with technical corrections, which does not in any way alter the system regime for the use of animals for scientific purposes. In the SAB, we agree that a new proposal for the Animal Protection Act, which will fully address the issue of animals and whose coalition promises by autumn 2020, will need to be prepared.The new law will refer to the definition of animals as sensitive beings and the regulation of the area of possession of wild animals for human society. In the SAB, we believe that in the new Animal Protection Act a number of topics need to be opened and regulated that are not open in the current novel. In the SAB mentioned amendments to the Animal Protection Act relating to the use of animals in proceedings, we will not oppose this because it is only a transposition of a directive of the European Union that we must urgently adopt if we are to avoid unnecessary penalties by the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Desus, colleague Branko Simonovic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Animals, which is before us, could be divided into two parts. The first part refers to the proposed amendments and additions made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in view of the necessary adaptation of national legislation to European Union law. The aim of the bill is thus primarily to comply with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. The deadline for the implementation into the Slovenian legal order expired already in April 2018 and the nomotechnic amendments to the bill adopted will thus satisfy the reminder we have already received from the European Commission and, as a result, avoid any financial sanctions. The second part of the regulation under consideration was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly during the legislative process. It is the legal definition of animals as sentient living things. Members and Members of the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Law at its 16th session in March 2020, which sought a great deal of public and political attention, in particular because of the vote to amend the first paragraph of Article 15a, which reads: “Animals are not things but sentient living beings.” Their protection is governed by special laws. When adopting this valuable provision that animals are not things, but sensitive living beings, we were aware that, as a result, we would have to take an appropriate and comprehensive approach to the regulation of the legal rules to which that definition relates. On the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and adopted an appropriate amendment and included it in the consideration of the amendment of the law. In the debate on the Committee, we were united that it was essential, however, to prepare and deal with as soon as possible with the Systemic Animal Protection Act, which had been under discussion for many years and which would adequately address many other pressing issues. The State Secretary, Dr Jože Podgoršek, has confirmed that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has already begun activities to prepare a new law. In all of this, it must also be more clear to us that the very definition of animals as sentient living beings will not change their position, care for them and legal relations with them. At the time of the adoption of the amendment to the Real Law Code, most Members of the Desus Group felt that this symbolic record reflected the awareness that animals could not be equated with things because they were living beings and, as such, were capable of perhaps very similar feelings to those experienced by humans with the same irritations or influences. We feel the same today, so we will be giving the amendment to the Animal Protection Act a majority of our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party, colleague Jani Ivanuš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u16	Have a good day to all present! Today's amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act is a response to the European Commission's official reminder of 14. Seven. 2017. This was a reminder that the Republic of Slovenia did not properly transpose certain articles of Directive 2010/63 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. Therefore, only articles relating to the use of animals in proceedings with a view to complying with that Directive shall be amended or supplemented. In particular, minor corrections such as the word “tests” are changed into “processes”, “tests on animals” are changed to “animals in procedures”, “animal protection” is changed to “animal welfare” and so on. There's nothing drastic here, nothing controversial. But we were disturbed by something else. The first issue is the adoption of an amendment which adds the definition of animals as sensitive beings to the text of the bill. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that animals cannot be subject, because they have no understanding, no free will, nor are they able to create cultures. For the subject is one who feels, thinks, acts, and decides. To understand one another, of course, this does not mean that we are not fighting in the party to protect animals. All people have an obligation to care for their welfare and to refrain from actions that cause unreasonable, unnecessary suffering. The second thing that has disturbed us is the rules on the conditions for the implementation of animal welfare procedures, Annex 1, which prescribes minimum standards for the accommodation and care of animals. Let me briefly list just a few conditions. In accommodation spaces, the optimal temperature to be controlled at least once a day must be ensured, the humidity must be controlled at least once a day, the staff must be friendly, gentle and so on. It must be possible to associate with peers of cubs, as well as the possibility of employment and games with suitable materials. On the other hand, the Oncology Institute, Gastroenterological Clinic and other hospitals, where conditions are mainly catastrophic in summer times – outdated equipment, poor radiation, not air-conditioned and overcrowded rooms. Annex 1 also provides for a minimum floor area per animal of more than 20 kilograms for dogs; 4 square metres for a dog to survive in such a restricted area shall not exceed 4 hours. The Court of Human Rights of the European Union, in the event of a complaint by ZK Dob prisoners, found that the majority of cells in the closed section in which the complainants were established measured 60 square metres and where between 11 and 17 prisoners were accommodated, amounting to significantly less than the minimum laid down in the laboratory animals. If I finish, it's better and it'll be taken care of by animals than by humans. Once the situation in institutions is settled, ensuring that patients, elderly people, prisoners are decently accommodated, and so on, when their well-being, comfortable stay, co-existence is ensured, this law, which is before us today, will also be supported by the Slovenian National Party. Once again, let us first see to the decent life of our fellow man. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party has the floor. My friend Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues, all to welcome. The European Union's legal order must be respected, its directives and regulations implemented, and today we have before us a law that has been delaying the implementation of the Directive and the Regulation of the European Union for more than 2 years. In short, what Gregor didn't do as Minister, Dejan, did to Alexander. Some work and others talk. Secondly, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have been treated as people who do not like animals in the treatment of the Real Law, because we did not support the Real Law Code, which has brought bad solutions in all other areas, except in the area of animals as sensitive beings, and then we have clearly warned that the Law on the Protection of Animals is the law where we need to discuss this topic. That is why we will support this law today. As this amendment, which has been considered at the very meeting of the parent working body, is, in our view, sufficiently addressing the concept of animals as sentient living beings. We believe that legal terminology can make a difference when there is a system law before us, but we think that we have done enough so far, especially in this legal dictatorship, and the question is, what can we do in this practical dictatorship? Whether by this law and by this dictatorship, we will also, in practice, pursue what we want, at least by saying that animals are someone who lives with us, who feels and needs to be helped, as well as with fellow humans. Of course, even in the SDS Group, we warn that we will not come to some extreme when it comes to the notion of animals as sentient living beings. I would like to know what the opinion of the other parliamentary groups will be, for example, when we consider the Law on livestock, which has been waiting for 3, 4 years at the Ministry, for an appropriate reception and is also waiting for the implementation of individual European legal standards. How will we then deal with the concept of “living sentient beings” or with the law on hunting and wildlings or with any other law that treats animals from the agricultural field as sensitive beings. That is why we believe in the SDS Group that in the dictatorship “sensible beings have to accept this, but beware that we do not go into extremes. As far as the system law is concerned, we are expected to work actively in this system law in the SDS Group as representatives of the government coalition. But this is where we warn him to make his own profession. Unfortunately, I was alone at the first consultation of the Ministry of Agriculture when the debate on this law began. All those who care so much about animals did not attend this first meeting. And then I publicly told the representatives of the Ministry to thank them for inviting them to let us know what was going on. But first, let them identify what we want to achieve with the Animal Protection Act. The Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Environment and Space should then follow meetings with local communities, which have a large share of the responsibility to protect animals and then, of course, other NGOs join. And I'm very afraid that this quest for animals or for sentient beings or insensitive beings will stop. As Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I had at least such a head of various NGOs in the preparation of the so-called system law. And you won't believe any of the dictions in which the article didn't have 100 percent support. Someone always wanted something for themselves, something more for themselves, something contrary to others. Therefore, we will actively participate in the drafting of the system law once it has done its part first. Finally, as expected from us, the policy will do and vote its own. This law with such dictions as have been proposed, especially for amendments, and on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we will support the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, a colleague of Edward Paulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! With the global development of technology, the idea that animals have property that we can have space with has reached their extremes. The idea of the inferiority of animals as living beings, however, withdraws from society and brings human compassion and responsibility to animals as sentient beings. With today's novelty, among other things, we are finally formally regulating what we have already accepted with the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon, that animals are recognized as sensitive beings. Until recently, we had in the real-law code a text that defined animals as a moving thing. We are pleased that today, due to the change in the legislation on the roof, we can also change the sectoral legislation. So, the Animal Protection Act. A clear legal reference to the need for special legal protection for animals will not in itself ensure that our relationship with animals changes overnight. But it represents a good foundation on which we can build as a society. It is important that we be aware of the specific needs of animals, respect them and enable them to live a decent life. It would be ideal for legal regulation to be an extreme or preventive tool. The purpose of today’s novel is, however, broader. Today, we are also coordinating the law with the Directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. The data on the number of animals on which scientific tests are carried out is extremely large and therefore we also need clear legislation to determine which animal behaviours and interventions are explicitly prohibited and how and how to conduct such interventions in the most humane and ethical manner. However, we live with animals in cohabitation, and it is fitting that we as a sensitive being provide them with a decent life without suffering. In the LMŠ Group we will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a colleague of mags. Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that after so many years of effort, as well as the empty course, we have finally found a common language and determination that animals as sensitive living beings have been legally defined both in the Law of Law and in a special law that refers to animals, namely the Law on the Protection of Animals. Let me stress that both of these changes were necessary in order to definitively prevent the interpretation of animals as things in our legal order. We regret, however, that the Committee's discussions have shown that certain political parties want to use the issue of animal status as a clearing house with those we sincerely wanted and sought to recognise the new status of animals in our legal order. And not to be blinded, this change was necessary and necessary, but it will take a great deal to prevent in reality all the repudiatory acts we have witnessed to them. So, although the Law on the Protection of Animals was tabled in Parliamentary Procedure by the Ministry only to comply with European legislation, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have decided to table an amendment which will define animals as sensitive living beings, and thereby to bring the legislation and animals into full harmony in our society into line with the relevant legal status, which will in fact be based on the principle of animal welfare. Social Democrats, however, expect that the systemic novelties of the law, which are still necessary and necessary and which we have been calling for for for a long time, will come on our bench as quickly as possible and that we will no longer be amending this area only in individual pieces. Following discussions and responses from the Minister, we expect that the marriage novels will in fact be written and part of the debate in the General Assembly in the autumn. Let me remind you that, at the time of the previous Government, we have addressed several demands and initiatives on urgent changes, including the prohibition of euthanasia or the execution of healthy animals, which was part of the novel of the Animal Protection Act, which was in the parliamentary procedure led by mags. The actual Jew was introduced in 2018, but unfortunately there is no new definition of ownership, a ban on chains, a definition of any negligence against animals as an offence and many other urgent substantive changes that we expect in the system novel and that will prevent a number of reprisals against animals and in fact stem from the principle of animal welfare and ensure that in real life, too, there will be a sensitive being. Thus, after so many years, animals have been given a well-deserved legal status and thus legal protection, which is crucial in terms of their dignity and well-being and follows more modern European and global regulations. It is important, however, that at this point we stop competing with this and that we talk about what this change brings and what we will not be able to do, but that we approach the actual changes in the field legislation, so that this provision will then, in fact, be applied, because this power is vested in the National Assembly. The social democrats will, of course, support the law unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Period of the day - Second defense of the bill of amendments to the law on public procurement, ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. At its 17th session, on 3 June 2020, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the Group of the Members of the Left, colleague Natasha Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! Today, fortunately, we are saying good-bye to the law that would, on a proposal from the Council of State, delete the guards in the Public Procurement Act that protect the rights of workers. The Council of State would delete provisions that prevent workers from obtaining public funds that could continue to use workers illegally. What's this all about? The Public Procurement Act provides that in some public contracts, where the maximum possibility of abuse of workers is periodically checked every six months, the contracting authority shall respect legislation and labour rights. If it is found that, for example, a private cleaning service that receives public cleaning resources, for example, at which the Ministry does not pay its wages, does not pay its contributions, does not guarantee the right to rest, does not respect the working time limit, this is the case. What also actually happened at the Ministry of Public Administration, where the cleaning services of the Ministry were not paid at all. Therefore, if these infringements are established, a procedure shall be opened for the fragmentation of the contract. The law also lays down an exclusion clause so that an economic operator is excluded from the procurement procedure if more than two infringements in connection with payment for work, working time, rest and so on have been detected in the last three years. These are the provisions, these are the safeguards that have been introduced in the law over the past years, after we have been able to monitor and lovingly monitor the severe exploitation of workers in private operators. It is a matter of acquiring and developing legislation in the direction of better protection of workers' rights and serious treatment of work-related violations, but as with the exploitative nature of the capitalist system, any acquisition for the working class is temporary. He will challenge any such acquisition, bring it either through the Constitutional Court or through his representatives in politics, and this has been the case this time. The capital through the State Council was trying to ensure that the security guards in question were simply wiped out. They wanted to delete the divorce clause, therefore because of the infringement of workers' rights, so that the mechanism for repealing contracts with operators illegally exploiting workers by public means could simply be removed. They wanted to ensure that companies that had violated labour rights in the last three years could participate in procurement procedures. They wanted to ease criminal sanctions for poor employers who were in violation of the law. The State Council or capital on behalf of which this anti-social novelty has been proposed is about business continuity and not about labour rights, so we strongly opposed it in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group New Slovenia-Christian Democrats, colleague Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! At the outset, let me point out that the drafter of this bill of principle is an important issue, which is also resolved by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a somewhat more complex issue in which, taking into account the principle of proportionality, on the one hand, we weigh the principle of compliance with labour law and, on the other hand, the negative consequences of identifying tenderers in whom infringements are identified on the rationality of the public procurement system. The search for the right balance in which the State would acknowledge the importance of respecting the rights of workers while also expressing its understanding of the position of the provider, taking into account the seriousness of its infringements, is difficult and sensitive. Okay, that is why we want to be able to hold the final decision of the Constitutional Court on this issue before we can definitively define it. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration explained the draft law on the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. While the solutions proposed follow the decision of the Constitutional Court of 7 November 2019 by which it decided on a motion for suspension. It is a matter of assessing the constitutionality of the individual provisions of the ZJN-3, which were added to the Public Procurement Act on the basis of the ZJN-3A. The Constitutional Court has decided to suspend the implementation of the two provisions. At the moment, it is not yet known what the final decision of the Constitutional Court will be, which makes it more appropriate to wait for the proposed amendments to be made when the decision is known in accordance with the final decision of the Constitutional Court. Solutions are not systematically adequate and complete, but mainly in terms of a vague final decision on the assessment of constitutionality premature. We would also point out that the proposal for a meeting of the home working body is not the preparation of amendments to respond to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out at the meeting of the home working body that the Legislative and Legal Service had comments on Article 5 of the bill and that the amendment was not prepared on the basis of those comments and some editorial corrections would also be needed. As in New Slovenia, we believe that it is most wise to wait for the Constitutional Court's substantive decision on the matter and to adjust the law accordingly only after the court's decision has been concluded, we have not supported the law on the home labour body. We do not want to have to interfere with legal matter again immediately after the decision of the Constitutional Court. Such a change in the legal regime in this area would not positively contribute to the stability and reliability of the legal regime, as much confusion could lead to the system.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is given by the SAB Group of Members, colleague Franz Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues! The Council of State has submitted to us for decision a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. The applicant submits that the reason for the experience from the practice which they consider to have shown certain shortcomings is that. The amendments relate to provisions governing the consequences of fines imposed on the work of a legal offence. As a result, tenderers may be excluded from the procurement procedures for three years. However, the amendment seeks to ensure that, after a contract has already been concluded, the termination of a contract for such offences would no longer be possible. The proposal also removes restrictions that prevent the tenderer from subsequently supplementing the tenders in respect of the price and technical specifications. Individual provisions of the Public Procurement Act, which touch on the consequences of the fines imposed on labour and legal offences, are currently under constitutional review. Although the Constitutional Court has temporarily abstained from implementing the two provisions, the final decision on compliance with the Constitution has not yet been adopted and it would therefore be appropriate to wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court and, if necessary, amend those legislative provisions in accordance with the Constitutional Decision. In the SAB, we believe that the area of public procurement is extremely sensitive and that changes must be approached systematically and with due consideration for the consequences of interference with legislation. We believe that the adoption of less restrictive rules for employers could constitute a message for citizens to tolerate violations of workers' rights. This is certainly unacceptable. Economic operators would be entitled to public funding in spite of non-compliance with labour law, so workers are already against employers in a weaker situation. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also required in Article 66 that the State provide for the legal protection of workers. The area of public procurement would need some changes. The procurement process in our country is really taking too long. In particular, major infrastructure projects are a major problem in which procedures are not acceptable for years. In Slovenia, therefore, we need systematic solutions that will fully regulate the area of public procurement and help to launch more rapid strategic projects such as the second line of Divača-Koper, the third development axis and the second section of the Karavan tunnel. Such solutions are expected from the government and not from the State Council. We do not support the proposed amendments to the Public Procurement Act in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you. The text is given by Mr Desus, a fellow Member of Parliament, Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Public procurement management is, in fact, an area of the fight for power, not an area of the work to be done. Better governance will be needed is a necessity, but it is ruthlessly interfering with interests and habits. In 2018, the volume of public procurement in Slovenia amounted to EUR 4 billion and EUR 600 million and 10% of gross domestic product. The number is impressive and shows the importance of public procurement, as intertwining economic and not economic activities. In Slovenia, public procurement respects form and is used on hundreds of tricks to avoid meaning. Many repeals and transpositions are a practice that is not solely the responsibility of the tenderers but also of the remiss bureaucrats and commissions. The Council of State has drawn up amendments to the Public Procurement Act, by which it intended to delete from the law provisions to exclude tenderers from public procurement procedures if the contracting authority finds out that the competent national authority is a contracting authority or its subcontractor at the time the contract is implemented, has found at least two infringements in respect of payment for work, working hours, rest, and simplified, by reducing the rights of workers. The purpose of the State Council, as an interest association, as a representative of functional interests, is understandable. It is not surprising, too, that the case is resolved on the workers’ shoulders, while completely ignoring the mistakes of employers who are very serious violations, not innocent jokes. Unreliable employment and constant fear of job loss have become a way of life for us, and state councillors consistently refuse to look this truth in the eye. It is true that those provisions were retained by the Constitutional Court. However, in the Desus Group, we are convinced that the rapid amendment of the law and the abandonment of those provisions is not acceptable. The Public Procurement Act was supplemented by these provisions in order to prevent the award of State orders to economic operators who repeatedly violate labour legislation as if it were perfectly normal and acceptable for those who do not respect its laws to work for the country. Today, we do not know what the final decision of the Constitutional Court will be, so there is no need to pre-judge it. The proposal for amendments to the Public Procurement Act also provides for an extension of the provisions providing for complementarity of tenders. With regard to the admissibility or complementarity of tenders, there is a practice for decisions by the State Audit Commission. As a result, on-the-spot consideration is given to how, based on practice, concrete experience, to develop greater flexibility in the design of useful solutions. In any event, however, there can be no objective of any legal change that would ultimately increase the price of the contract. However, something like this can happen if a prohibition of correcting or supplementing the offer of a contract is excluded from the law in the part where the price is fixed. With changes in the price of the tenders already submitted, cartel arrangements between several tenderers could also occur and the final result would be an increase in the final price offered. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian public procurement system, the logic of responsibility is completely abandoned, at all levels. Public orders are a game of a cat with a mouse, with a cat not a vegetarian, but a predatory provider associated with a companion on the other side who earns and shares a profit with it. There is no responsibility in such a system, not political or criminal. No shame, no conscience, no morals. [[sign for the end of the debate]] It is not treated with antibiotics and tea, but with prevention. It is the one who makes the mistake and causes the damage, and it is by no means simply the responsibility of the highest political officials. All of this was also the reason why Members of the Desus Group rejected the proposal of the Council of State relating to the Law on [[sign for the end of the debate]] amendments to the Public Procurement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you. The text is given by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, colleague Dušan Šiško.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u32	The Honourable President and all present. Public procurement is a stumbling block because it is a difficult and sensitive subject. Regrettably, things are often decided non-lifely, for example if someone replaces the head of the construction site, where there is a deal of 100 to 200 million euros in the game and then the matter falls. Some control, an internal one, must be established, because without it it is not possible, but I would like to point out that things need to be relaxed and not sharpened. The procurement system must be more flexible and efficient. Sometimes things need to be done quickly, for example, to be saved in a certain congregation 30 meters of road, which has been drenched by a reptile, is damaged, and does not wait for one month’s time to execute a public order and select the contractor. The theory is one thing, and in practice immediate action is needed. The core or biggest problem is the competence of the staff, which is questionable when it comes to staffing for the preparation of the tender documentation. References could also be prepared for the contracting authorities, because the tenderers have top-notch lawyers because they know that the contracting authorities are very vulnerable. In the Slovenian National Party, we cannot go beyond the fact that some are making calls and that companies that are not selected for work can complain. We have a nice example of Caravanka's tunnel. Clients thus waste valuable time and money. As regards the condition of divorce in Article 67, paragraph 4, of the amendment to UN Law 3.a, it is, however, that the public authorities in the contractors or subcontractors of the contract find at least two infringements quickly today. Therefore, tenderers are excluded from the procurement procedure for 3 and 5 years respectively. Thus, we have on the market various large economic operators, who are violators, non-payers and in the record with negative references. More or less violations are repeated, workers do not receive salaries, regression, they do not have paid contributions, overtime, nor do they have a proper rest. Penalties for work offences are proportionate to some; they are not proportionate to others. The novice is obviously working for the capitalists, as it is a matter of loosening labour law in the interests of violators. Everything is done quickly and recklessly, so the matter is in the Constitutional Court, where the decision is pending. Hot stuff needs to be resolved systematically so that workers are protected in all sectors. Employers should be aware of their duties and not just of their rights, for only they are responsible if they are wronged. The frightening condition must be to prevent once again the abuses that are taking place on our workers' daily basis and the State of the Republic of Slovenia must be a good example because it is tax money. In the Slovenian national side, we will not support the amendment of the law because it is directed against labour rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, colleague Alenka Jeraj, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting. At the end of February, the Council of State introduced a proposal for amendments to the Public Procurement Act, the law's solutions mainly concern three areas: sanctioning selected tenderers with regard to the consequences of fines imposed on labour law offences, secondly with regard to complementarity of offers and thirdly with regard to sanctioning the exclusion from the candidature proceedings. Until the final decision, the Constitutional Court suspended the implementation of the two articles of the Public Procurement Act 3. To date, the decision of the Constitutional Court has not yet been known and it is therefore most reasonable to wait until the final decision of the Constitutional Court and to amend the law in accordance with the decision to the extent necessary. In the SDS, we understand the well-intention of the proposaler of the State Council, but we believe that this area needs to be regulated in its entirety and, as has already been pointed out, wait for the final decision of the Constitutional Court, so we have not supported the law on the home committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, a colleague of Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and fellow Members! We have before us a proposal for amendments to the Public Procurement Act, which, as it is said, has been tabled by the Council of State and amends five articles of the law. It is a matter of changes in the law, which is extremely complex, which governs the field of public procurement throughout the public sector and far from being ideal at the moment. It's been updated since 2018. However, it seems to us that partial interference with such a law is not appropriate. Indeed, the need for a greater and more comprehensive amendment of that law has emerged over the past few years. We have also made such changes in the government of Marjan Šarc when some urgent amendments to this law and amendments to the Law on the Legal Protection of Public Procurement were adopted. Under the then Minister Rudi Medved, discussions also began on a more extensive amendment to the ZJN-3A, where proposals went towards sufficiency of supply and simplification of procurement procedures, simplification of the low-value procurement procedure, the possibility of raising the building threshold, re-introduction of subcontractors and extremely important, the professionalisation of contracting entities, and what is crucial, which we have been discussing for a long time to assign greater responsibility and responsibility to directors of public institutions, raise the threshold for low-value contracts, raise the threshold for meeting the conditions of the provider in respect of paid tax obligations and many others. As it is said, flexibility is essential here. Given that there has been a change of government, of course certain things have remained open and need to be regulated. Let me draw attention here to the fact that we have a relatively transparent public procurement system, regardless of some stains and problems in large infrastructure projects in Slovenia, which many international organisations also recognise. The provisions that change these novelties before us are, in our view, too general and are going in a completely different direction to which we are inclined. The proposed provisions of Articles 67 and 67a, 75 and 89 and 112 are before us. It should be noted, however, that the two articles, as has already been said, the amendments proposed by the Council of State, namely Articles 67 and 75 by the Constitutional Court, have been retained and useful and, of course, it would be correct to await the final decision of the Constitutional Court prior to any amendment to these Articles. On Monday, the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boštjan Koritnik, replied to my question on my behalf that the amendments to the Public Procurement Act are under way to support the many things that have already been prepared in the previous government to support dialogue with all stakeholders and, of course, I also want all of us to participate constructively in these changes. In view of all of this, the LMŠ Group will unanimously reject the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a colleague of mags. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Allow me to briefly summarize the amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which was transmitted by the Council of State in the legislative process. Newly followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court of 7. 11. 2019, by which it decided on a proposal to suspend the individual provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Temporary detention refers to the consequences of the fines imposed on labour offences set out in Articles 67, 67a and 75 of the Act. The other amendments relate to the clarification or addition of tenders, the restrictions limiting the possibility of subsequent clarification of tenders already submitted on the price and technical specifications which merely demonstrate the existence of an objectively verifiable fact, and these clarifications or additions to the tenders should not affect the order of the tenders received. The amendments also touch on areas governing the compulsory exclusion of tenderers who commit certain offences, for example, by submitting an untrue or amended instrument as a law. Such tenderers shall be placed on the list of tenderers with negative references, which shall be excluded from the procurement procedures for a period of three years if the goods and services are the subject of the contract, or for five years if the contract is the subject of the construction contract. This is a quick review of the content that the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government unanimously rejected and we are not voting on this law today. The decision was the same as it was, in particular because the Ministry of Public Administration is in the process of preparing the new Public Procurement Act, which deals in detail with exposed areas, and, finally, it is trying to find other solutions that would make the public procurement system more flexible and efficient. Social Democrats point out, however, that the procurement system must be sufficiently clear, transparent and comprehensible and, above all, the legislation must be stable so that it does not change every year, as we have said several times in the context of the consideration of public procurement legislation. It is also noted that most procurement procedures are likely to be carried out in accordance with existing legislation, but unfortunately, financially more difficult projects are always failing; projects are therefore late and are also accompanied by various affairs. When preparing the amendment to the Public Procurement Act in the Government, we expect that more efforts will be made to find additional solutions in case of emergency orders, such as those that we have witnessed recently, which are necessary to contain or mitigate the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic or other natural disasters that would exceed the territory of Slovenia, and access to goods would be difficult. The experience of ordering protective equipment over the last three months was, in terms of financial input and transparency, mildly, poor or negative. In short, we attach it to the Ministry or Government, which in its opinion stated that the purpose of the amendment was good, but it would be more appropriate to wait for the Constitutional Court to decide. We add that it is also time to prepare a comprehensive amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which will not constantly change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u40	The key amendment introduced by the new Public Procurement Act (ZJN-3A) in 2018 at the proposal of the SMC Group is a more precise regulation of the social clause. Furthermore, 82 of the most labour intensive services, such as catering services, cleaning, security, introduced a semi-annual verification of the mandatory conditions for the exclusion of the contracting authority. Nor are the additional social criteria that the contracting authority must always take into account when ordering services identified in the draft law as critical labour intensive services. The proposed changes to the Council of State appear to be weakening the first round of the provisions that we introduced in 2018 with great consideration. In most cases, they follow the decision of the Constitutional Court of November 2019, by which the Court merely provisionally retained two provisions of the current Public Procurement Act and, however, the Constitutional Court has not yet adopted the content of the decision. The fact is that public authorities are ordering a number of services through public contracts, but unfortunately, it has been shown that after they have concluded their business, some operators have been reviving the rights of workers who are subject to applicable legislation. However, the contracting authority was not obliged, i.e. under the previous law, to verify, after the conclusion of the contract, that the economic operator still fulfils all the conditions it met at the time of the conclusion of the contract. Who, if not state authorities, will provide a good example. We are convinced that the proposed changes have yielded results. The opinion of the SMC Group is that it is welcome to consider the appropriateness of the proposed solutions, but it would be useful to wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court to be amended, and when the decision is known to settle them together with any other changes in particular, as they have said at the time of the Committee's consideration, also those provisions which relate to the contracting authority. We note that irregularities also occur in the latter and that the law in force would make sense in the future in this part. We believe that the area of public procurement is important both in terms of the functioning of contracting authorities, tenderers and many national authorities, and therefore the proposal for a law should be dealt with with with with by the professional and other public, together with the economy as well as all the stakeholders concerned by this system. This important part has, unfortunately, diminished the proposal of the State Council. As already stated in the SMC Group, we do not support the bill or our support has not been given to the meeting of the parent body.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. They concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law amending the bookstore law under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. At its 7th session, on 4 June 2020, the Committee on Culture considered the working body as a parent. As the committee of articles of the draft law did not adopt a second consideration of the bill at the meeting of the working body after the discussion was concluded, the second consideration of the draft law was completed. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The new Slovenian-Christian Democrats, a colleague of Tadej Šuštar, have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u42	The Public Institute of Information Science is an invention established by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as an information service for Slovenian science, culture and education. The State, together with other information providers, ensures the involvement of the Republic of Slovenia in the flow of modern world information. In the region, more than 5 000 500 librarians and more than 700 000 final users depend on the invention of one rare country, which has all kinds of booklets connected to the single library information system and the only country in the world, which has a national information system of research activities directly linked to the national, library, information system COBISS. In addition, Slovenia is the country with the most regulated system for managing bibliographies of researchers within the information system and the only country with a national bibliography of researchers directly linked to the global databases of Web of Science. The invention is therefore one of the key national factors in the field of information infrastructure in science, education and culture. The current Law on Librarianism provides for a nine-member management body, whose members are appointed by the Government on a proposal from the competent ministries of universities of national general schools and special libraries and employees. The new law, which is set before us, provides for a different composition that is to be balanced according to the principle of tripartiteism as set out in the Law on Development and Research, but raises questions as to how justified it is in this case. It would exclude a large number of library representatives from the management body, which are, of course, key users of the systems in the context of the invention, so it seems to us in Nova Slovenija that the appointment of the board of directors remains the same as in the law in force, that there are three representatives of ministries, five representatives of users and one representative of employees. The new law is also opposed by the National Council for Librarian Activities, since, following the current regulation of the city on the Management Board, the representatives of the general, school, special and national libraries have representatives. With the possible implementation of the proposed amendments to the Library Act, there is a risk that libraries will lose their influence in managing IZUM. Differences between individual types of libraries increase from day to day, but also requirements. As a result, this affects the work and management of IZUM, which conducts its activities primarily for the library system. In view of the above, it is important that libraries have their representatives, not only in the professional bodies, but also in the management bodies of the library information system. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we will not support the novels of the Law on Librarianism.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. My friend Mark Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u44	Respectable. The organisation of libraries, their content, guidelines and basic working conditions define standards for general libraries. However, their services and methods of financing, responsibilities and supervision are laid down by the Law on Librarianism. The State Council proposal estimates that we have a legal obstacle to the composition of the IZUM administration body and therefore proposes to amend the law providing for the deletion of one article. The Library Act, adopted in 2001, sets out in its text the performance of the tasks of library information service in the national, mutual, bibliographic system COBISS, which has previously been carried out by the Maribor Institute of Information Science. IZUM was founded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is dependent on more than a thousand 300 libraries, five thousand 500 librarians and over 700 thousand final users. The composition of the body, according to the applicant, is problematic in terms of appointed representatives, since they are in breach of two laws – the Librarianship Act provides for a nine-member composition and the Research and Development Act, which gave IZUM the status of the public information institution, provides that the public administration is managed by an administrative board of 5 to 9 members. The Management Board shall adopt the IZUM Statute, the guidelines for the development of the IZUM, the annual work programme and the financial plan, the annual report, the implementation of the planning acts, the discharge of the Director of IZUM, the discharge of the work bodies of the Management Board, as well as other tasks. IZUM, which now includes twice as many libraries as it did ten years ago, which has all kinds of libraries connected in the single library information system as the only country in the world, the national information system on research activities, directly linked to the national library information system COBISS, is working today, as a modernly designed information network, effectively. It does not contain and does not explain at any point the effects and consequences of the reduction in the number of members of the Management Board. According to the IZUM annual report, the holder of the development of integrated libraries, library systems, information systems, ensures the operation of COBISS and SICRIS, the number of libraries in COBISS is increasing, software, borrowing, development and could also be listed. [[Incomprehensible]] In the SAB, we believe that the reduction in the membership of the board of directors in the functioning of the public service will not have the optimum effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. My friend Yuri Nice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to everyone. Rarely is a tool for finding literature for researchers, students, students or casual readers, in use as much as the COBISS virtual library. However, the search for literature, as most of us do, is much more in its essence. For the user, this is the easiest way to find literature in Slovenian libraries, by title, author or topic. For libraries, excellent system for connecting and system recording materials. It represents the organisational model of the integration of libraries into the national library information system. In the Desus Group we recognize the great importance that such a system has for users themselves as well as for libraries. Of course, we cannot talk about COBISS without the Institute of Information Science, or Izum, directly related to the changes proposed by the State Council in the proposal for a law amending the law on librarianism. The invention is a public institution set up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as an information service for Slovenian science, culture and education. Its core tasks include the coordination of the development and operation of the mutual bibliographic system and its services. The activities of the Izum are mainly linked to the development and operation of Cobiss systems and services, which form the basis of the Slovenian library information system and the library information systems of some other countries, such as Serbia, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Bulgaria and Albania, and are connected to the Cobiss.net network. In addition to Cobissa, Sicris also includes data on research organisations and projects, as well as supporting the development of similar systems in other countries. The invention also provides users from Slovenia with free access to various foreign databases and services, which is indispensable for many researchers. The amendments cited in the proposal for a law amending the Law on Librarianism are directly linked to the operation of the Izum. With the amendments to certain articles, it would be questionable whether Cobiss, which Izum had put up, would still be directed to the general public, as was pointed out by the representative of the Government. We also recognize in the Desus Group that the current regime in which the proposal for a law amending the Law on Librarianism would intervene is appropriate and does not need to be amended at this time. At the end of the day, only the work of the Izum and related projects is to be commended. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, colleague Alenka Jeraj, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u48	The National Council proposed an amendment to the Librarianship Act to change the management arrangements of the Maribor Institute of Information Sciences. They proposed the deletion of Article 64 of the Law, which would mean that the library information service will be subject to the regime laid down by the Law on Research and Development, which is systematically governed by the Public Research and Infrastructure Institute, the Institute's bodies and the conditions for the appointment of the Director. In the SDS, we estimate that the current regime is appropriate, since it includes all stakeholders and we have therefore voted against the change at the meeting of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The text is given by the delegation of the List of Marjan Šarc, a colleague of Lidija Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u50	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. The proposal for a law put into the legislative procedure by the Council of State under the pretext of ensuring the balance of the Izum management body in accordance with the principle of the so-called equal representation of representatives actually reduces the number of library representatives. Libraries would have lost their influence on the invention. Why is it important that libraries have their representatives in Izum? Differences between individual types of libraries are only increasing, and so, of course, requirements and this affects the work and management of the Inventory as one that mostly manages the library system. The activity of the Izum is thus linked to the development and operation of the Cobiss system and services, which forms the basis of the Slovenian library information system, as well as the library and information systems of some other countries of the former Yugoslavia, which are all connected together into the Cobiss network. And why, in fact, the idea of changing the composition of the Imagination Board? In the face of some problems that would arise from the composition of this board of directors, it is not heard either by libraries or by the board of directors as such. Are there any other interests in the background? We don't know that. However, the fact that something changes, which works and what the library system clearly provides, does not really make any sense. Libraries do well how they will otherwise reach their users and how they have reached their users have recently proved very much the crowns. And instead of commending their work and efforts, some try to take away what is legally theirs, even without justification. Thus, four representatives of libraries, general, school, specialized and national, will continue to sit in the Governing Board, which we also think is right in LMŠ, so we will not support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is given by the SD Group of Members, Comrade Only Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Proposal for a new Law on Librarianism, the proposer of which is the State Council, deletes Article 46 of that Act, which sets out the composition of the authorities carrying out the library, information service. There are nine members appointed to the governing body. With the proposed deletion, according to the proposaler, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the founder of the Public Institute of Information Sciences in Maribor, could redefine the composition of the Management Authority and, last but not least, increase the number of members. Membership after this interpretation could also vary according to the possible added activity that IZUM would be engaged in or developed into a new one. Despite repeated attempts, the Government does not recognise the need to amend those provisions of the law. The government considers that regulatory arrangements are also appropriate and harmonised within government departments. According to the Government, the opinion of the National Council for Librarianism, which is the expert advisory body of the Government, does not recognize the solutions proposed as appropriate. The need to change membership in the IZUM library information service body is also not seen by the legislator, this is the National Assembly. Even though we all recognize the work of a public institution that is successful and pervasive. IZUM was not created overnight, it developed for more than 30 years, the progeny dates back to 1984, when the first computer bibliographic record was developed at the University Library of Maribor and the introduction of automated rental with software developed by the research centre of the University of Maribor. The Public Institute IZUM acts as the Information Service for Slovenian Science, Culture and Education. The activity is mainly linked to the development and operation of the KOBIS system and services, which forms the basis of the Slovenian library information system and the library information systems of some other countries connected to the COBISS network. With SICRIS, the information system for research activities, it represents research organisations with registered jobs, researchers, research groups, projects and programmes. With its distinctive work IZUM, it also acts as the UNESCO center of the second category. This is an important multicultural cooperation and the flow of information on intellectual production in the region, as it represents an important step towards promoting the emergence and development of new partnerships on the work of the world, where this is particularly necessary in view of past history. The Centre's activities focus on addressing specific problems of updating library systems in the countries involved and ensuring conditions for their integration into the global library network, both in terms of access to international bibliographic bases and in terms of integrating their own bibliographic information into these databases. Both intellectual heritage and the simultaneous intellectual production of these countries require a more active presence in global reviews. Even though the proposed solution to the amendment was not recognised as appropriate to support it, the Social Democrats want to continue to work successfully for all concerned members, members, researchers and researchers of the IZUM Public Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you. The text is given by the SMC Group of Members, a colleague of mags. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone! The proposal for a law amending the Law on Librarianism is intended, according to the applicant, to eliminate the inconsistencies identified between the Library Act and other regulations and to ensure a balanced composition of the Institute of Information Science management body Maribor. The applicant submits that the purpose of the amendment of the law is to remove the legal obstacle to the composition of the IZUM management body, which would be consistent with the specificity of its activities and development guidelines and would ensure its more efficient and equitable composition. In the Modern Centre Party, we point out that the invention works in accordance with its mission, in accordance with its tasks and expectations. In recent years, there have been no problems or irregularities which would have led to inadequate composition of the administrative IZUM, on the contrary. The actual situation shows that the institution works successfully, it has technologically renovated services for libraries. After years of stagnation he expanded the operation of all of us known to Cobiss Net and successfully expanded his mission in the field of the National Supercomputer Centre. The proposed downsizing of the Management Board, in particular by reducing the number of library representatives, would have a significant impact on the functionality of the public service itself. In the discussion at the home work body, which discussed the proposal of the law on 4 June, it was, inter alia, pointed out that IZUM has achieved important achievements in the last period, developed and made available to the scientific public the most powerful super computer, integrated the learning fund, connected the Slovenian libraries, continued to expand its service to libraries abroad and worked very well as a public institution. On a proposal from the law, the National Council for Librarian Activities gave its opinion and proposed, on the basis of professionally substantiated facts, that we should not give support to the proposal for a law in the National Assembly. Because of all the above, something that works well does not make sense to us in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. It does not seem reasonable to change the existing functioning and composition of the IZUM Management Board. Therefore, we do not support the proposal for a law amending the law on librarianism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is first of all a proposal for a law on amendments to the laws on radiotelevision of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by a group of 13 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. Regarding the proposal for a law, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first signed Branet Golubovic requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed colleague Lidija Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u56	Dear President! Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues! You have before you a proposal for amendments to the RTV Slovenia Act. We propose amendments to all two articles defining the composition and method of appointing the Institute's Programme Council. We propose that policy waive its current competence to appoint 16 programme councilors. We propose leaving the choice directly to civil society and the professional public. That would be mature, democratic and responsible. Why? Because we are talking about a public institution of special cultural and national importance, a public institution. If I say otherwise, it's not a public institution, not a state, not a government. The Institute, which creates and provides the most quality and diverse programming content for the public. Such ones, irrespective of possible market uninterest, are intended for the whole public or all social groups and tastes. It's not everything, but it's for everyone. But that's what public service is all about. One more time if I go back to the novel. In the LMŠ we propose that now 29 members of the RTV Slovenia programme council will have only 23 members. 13 would be named in the same way as today, and the remaining 10 would no longer be decided in this Chamber. For there is no reasonable reason for policy decision on the members of the Programme Council here, none. We therefore propose healthy corrections, namely that civil society and the professional public, not like today, should decide directly after the new decision. Two members would name professional organizations of journalists, one organization of deaf and deaf, the organization of blind and visually impaired, NGOs in public interest in the field of sport, the Department of Journalism, the Ombudsman, the Association of Slovenian Writers and the Association of Dramatic Artists, the Professional Association of Music Artists and professional associations in the field of film and audiovisual production. Why is it actually listed - because they reflect everything that is the mission of RTV, because they represent areas that form the basis of the operation of the public institution, from information and education to entertainment, from information content to culture and entertainment, sports, children's and youth programs, films, obscenities, documentary programs, and civic shows. All of this is public RTV, which is devoted exclusively to the public, not to the market or to politics, and to politics at least. The above is what should be of interest to the Programme Council, the programme should also be addressed by the Programme Council, not by politics. That is why it is high time that politics withdraws - that politics withdraws. Public television must not be turned into a service that, despite its expected independence, becomes an executor of political interests, and that is what some in the coalition are trying to achieve. Public television should not give up critical control over the functioning of power; and that is what some in the coalition are trying to achieve, for that is the impression. Once again, today's regime, under which the National Assembly appoints 21 of the 29 programme councillors, is the wrong, the wrong, the wrong, is the political error of another government, which, with a democratic view of the media, does not really have anything in common. Let it be different this time, so we also propose changes. Respectable coalition, you often talk about freedom of the media, their independence and also autonomy. If that's what you really think, so if it's not just about the words you like, if you're honest, then you'll also support the law at first reading today - let civil society decide on its own, let it do so, it doesn't need your help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Vask Simoniti, Minister of Culture for the introduction of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! Half-second year after you led the government in the LMŠ as the leading party and then the ruling coalition had a majority in the National Assembly, now as the opposition party you are proposing a new law on RTV. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the intent of this law to reduce the number of saints from 29 to 23. You could also discuss some other number, but you have reached this number in your calculation of the membership composition. Even in the Government's view, the existing number of programme councilors is too large and can equally represent the public's interests, which is composed of fewer members, and may also be more operational in this case. Although the Austrian state television ÖRF has a council of 35 members, Austria is a significantly larger country, and this world has slightly different obligations and responsibilities than the RTV Programme Council. On the other hand, it is true that Croatian television, which is bigger, and the country is larger than Slovenia, only 11 members, of which 9 are elected in the assembly and 2 employees in this media house. The relationship between the State or the competent ministry and the BBC’s public television in the United Kingdom is also well established and at several levels. Our relationship with public RTV is primarily governed by the law on RTV, whose novelty is on the table today. The Government and Parliament, through the legislation adopted, provide good material conditions for the work of RTV Slovenia. Finally, this allows for a legal RTV contribution, which, on some exceptions, is due to all electricity connections and last year, RTV Slovenia had a total of 126 million Euros of which almost 96 million Euros of RTV contributions. If this sum is compared to the budget of the Ministry of Culture, which is a good EUR 197 million this year, we do not know how it will be after the budget's rebalancing, but this is the sum of money that gives very good working conditions when this institution is well managed. It provides financial independence, which is also a condition for editorial autonomy, but we know from experience that it is both a waste of money and a means of appointing or electing organs, managing, controlling, advising, editing and similarly does not guarantee quality. A quality public radio and television service is one of the foundations for a functioning democracy. By the way, the Ministry of Culture with the above-mentioned budget finances all Slovenian culture, professional, amateur, museums, theatres, cultural heritage, all employees and self-employed in culture and so on. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports and will support any step that will contribute to the quality of the RTV programme of Slovenia at all levels, as set out in the RTV Slovenia Act, not only the information programme, which is the most widely discussed and discussed in the public, but also the cultural, artistic, educational, children's programme, in short the whole range of programmes identified by the public service in the field of radio and television activities, in particular in Articles 3 and 4. For the end, more than just the number of members of the Programme Council, the quality of individuals we entrust to them in this world is important. Highly moral and professional members of the world will certainly not allow themselves political pressure in their work and will ensure and represent the public's interests, whatever we call them in the programming world. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment to the RTV Act, which only partially interferes with this complex law and at the Ministry of Culture we will prepare appropriate amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you. We are moving on to the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. The text is by the Party's delegation, Alenka Bratušek, a colleague of Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u60	Dear Minister, Honourable President, colleagues and colleagues. RTV Slovenia is the only public non-profit broadcasting organization in Slovenia. As a public institution of special cultural and national importance, it carries out a specific public service in the field of radio and television activities by law. It aims to satisfy the democratic, social and cultural needs of both citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and members of Slovenian national minorities and the Italian and Hungarian communities. Public television is created for the public, which is financed and should be monitored. Today we have an amendment to the RTV Act tabled by the opposition parliamentary group aimed at modifying the composition and style of appointment of members of the programme council. The composition of the Programme Council with the current legislation shall be composed of 29 members, 21 of whom shall be appointed by the National Assembly. The applicant submits that, in accordance with the principle of institutional autonomy and the principle of independence, the number of members should be reduced by 6, i.e. to 23. Of this, five would be appointed by the National Assembly, two by the President of the Republic and the rest by civil society. A proposal for a law confers the powers of appointment of 5 members on 5 parliamentary parties, which by number of Members are the largest. This raises an important question as to what composition of the programming board we receive if all the largest groups of Members are either on the right or on the left. In doing so, I stress that RTV, as a public service, must be independent of politics and impartial, with a pluralist approach. In SAB - Alenka Bratušek, we believe that the impact of policy in the programme as well as in the supervisory board of the public media programme breaks access to independent information, diverse content and the space of public debate. The creation of a public debate must be independent of policy imperatives. Only impartially informing citizens is a condition for the functioning of the democratic system. If the National Assembly appoints 21 out of 29 members to the Programme Council, on the principle of the five largest parliamentary parties, the membership of the Programme Council in the vast majority depends on the Government's composition each time. Let me stress that there is no place for politics for independent public service, especially in the field of programming and journalism. The government intends to prepare its proposal for the RTV Act in the coming months, with which we can expect the replacement of supervisors and, consequently, a blow to professional journalism and credible public information. In the SAB Group, we are convinced that the public service of RTV must serve the public and be responsible for it, so we must not in any way allow the media space to regulate partial capital and political interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Comrade Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and colleagues. The Public Institute of RTV Slovenia is the primary transporter of public information in Slovenia. Moreover, the software scheme that is designed offers viewers a wide range of information, education and entertainment content. The Commission, whose members are individual saints, plays an important role in the design and acceptance of content that is available to us via television, the Internet or radio waves. In the Desus Group, we recognize their efforts and successful work in creating content. It should be noted that the working bodies whose members are appointed representatives proposed by the policy are not individual units, they are part of the whole that together forms the final programming image, called RTV Slovenia. The Commissions thus cover different areas, from information content, radio and television programmes, and online content, to monitoring the representation of regional and local programming content in RTV Slovenia programmes and technical issues themselves. Meetings where the content of the programme is decided shall also invite experts for specific areas which do not otherwise have the right to vote. In the Desus Group, we remind you that the RTV Slovenia Programme Council already adopted the ethical code of members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council in 2018. In the six basic indents, they shall present the responsibilities and duties assumed by a member of the Programme Council when he becomes a saint. In other points, we can also read that a member in relation to the country, as well as to other formal and informal centres of power, and interests, acts independently and impartially, in favour of public broadcasting and all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. If a policy has an impact on the appointment of a certain number of members, each member shall be autonomous. The code of ethics tells him that the decisions he makes are not the results of political pressures or personal interests, but of serious reflection, but of plurality of opinions. The reduction in the number of members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council is, in the view of the Desus Group, inappropriate, and in particular such a radical change in the appointment of members. In the programming world, according to the members of the working bodies at this time, in our view, it is inappropriate to take care of them. In the various commissions, whose members are individuals with years of experience working on thematic areas, the representation of the organisation, as well as other groups, as proposed by the amendment of the law, is already well represented. However, we must oppose the view that the public administration has a role as supervisor over the authority. Their primary task is that they are carriers of information and, of course, the truth. Neither politics nor politics nor any private interest can influence the truth. We also point out in the Desus Group that there are appliances that exercise control over power and that they do not have this task in the media. Since Members of the National Assembly are elected by the people to work for the best interest of the people, in the Desus Group we believe that this area also includes confidence in the appointment of individuals to the RTV Slovenia Programme Council because we believe in pluralism of opinion and media freedom, in the Desus Group of the novel RTV Slovenia Act we will not support. We believe that the Programme Council is adequately represented in all areas at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you. The SNS Group, a colleague of Dusan Shisko, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u64	Nice greetings to all present! We do not support the proposed law in the SNS Group. Why? The Law applies exclusively to personnel matters. The proposer wants to reduce the number of members of the Programme Council, while also taking on the powers of appointment now vested in the National Assembly. The Slovenian national party, as a national party, will refrain from any cooperation in human resources matters, as I think this should be a focus elsewhere. We're trying to make an RTV contribution go away. Such a measure would at least help to alleviate the crisis caused by the pandemic at symbolic level. The RTV contribution is at a monthly level of 12.75 euros, which means that the cost is slightly more than 150 euros for an individual household at an annual level. After the current regulation, the government has the possibility of reducing the contribution by 10%, but it is unlikely that it will do so. The reduction would not affect the performance of RTV tasks, as there are still many reserves. The fact that the Director of the Public Institute on the Committee on Culture has praised itself with a number of outstanding obligations in 2019 is not the right way, as this adds to the impact on such impoverished family budgets. In comparison, many too many people are employed on the list of establishments. Even if they have problems or financial burdens due to the services of the archive and symphony orchestra of RTV Slovenia, it is high time to reorganise. We also believe that RTV Slovenia has enough different sources of funding and is being used too little. So that changes in the direction of human resources change are not the right way. At the same time, it would also like to introduce the powers of appointing members of the Programme Council to NGOs. We strongly oppose this because NGOs should not have such powers. For a reason, it is called non-governmental organisations and any involvement in the profession is not their fundamental mission. Finally, I would like to point out that the public institution of RTV Slovenia is largely responsible for biased reporting - yes, Mrs Violeta - the State guarantees freedom of expression in a way of financial autonomy, that the public media will carry out its task of free public opinion, but that is not the case, since we can see, above all, what kind of round tables the minute is devoted to some political parties. In short, the average viewer or electorate with the help of RTV Slovenia cannot create an objective opinion, as everything has already been highlighted by a certain political gender. Thank you for your attention, everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you. The word is given by the SDS Group of Members, colleague Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. The LMŠ party proposes amendments to the RTV Act in the articles relating to the RTV Programme Council. In the SDS Group, we support a reduction in the number of programme councillors, as the smaller body is more operational in our view. We find it unusual to suggest that one member propose to the Department of Journalism at the FDV, but we know that journalism can be studied elsewhere, for example at the Faculty of Media. You also suggest that one representative propose the Association of Slovenian Writers and the Association of Dramatic Artists, but you exclude all others. In recent years, by the way, new societies or organisations in this area have been established. The current regulation states that members are appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from associations, associations of associations or their organisations, in particular in the fields of art, culture, science and journalism and other civil society organisations; this dictatorship is much more inclusive and inclusive. We are also wondering why applicants among people with disabilities have the privilege of deaf and deaf and blind and visually impaired, but they exclude all other representatives of disability and humanitarian organisations. In addition, you write “the organization of the deaf and deaf”, which does not exist, are a society in this area or the Union of Blind and Deaf Slovenia. The same applies to the Society of Deaf and Deaf, there is a Union of Associations of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia, so if you wanted to include these organisations. However, you exclude all other representatives of disabled and humanitarian organisations, which we do not think is right. You also suggest that two members appoint professional organisations of journalists; this would mean two representatives, hypothetically, competing media. At the same time, you suggest that RTV appoints three representatives, which is already in force. This seems to us to be a disproportionate arrangement to the detriment of RTV. You also propose to appoint one representative of professional associations in the field of film and audiovisual production and one representative of professional associations of music creators. We estimate that in this way you are once again shutting down the entire spectrum of individuals who could be in the programming world as they work in similar areas of expertise as listed. In the SDS Group, we estimate that possible changes to the composition of the RTV Programme Council need to be carefully considered.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Brane Golubovic will present the position of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u68	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Today, in the List of Marjan Šarc we propose a simple step, quite simple, and it is that politics or we in this Chamber take the responsibility of appointing 16 programme saints. To make once and for all the end of the recruitment, the mixing of politics on RTV Slovenia. RTV Slovenia is not only the largest media house in the country, but also the largest cultural institution. Let me remind you that RTV is not only Reflections and Second Morning Chronicle, RTV is not only Studio at 5 p.m. or Target, RTV is also a documentary program and middle film, it is also Intelekta and Saturday broadcast Hudo, is Infodrom, which helped solve with the crown affected school year, and People and Earth, Bridges, Globe, Children's and Youth Programme, sports broadcasts, Good morning, Advisory Service, Rejected obtain, classical and all other music, concerts, Week name, months and more and could also list. So for every age something, for every taste something, even if it doesn't serve the market and it serves the public - it serves the public. RTV is there for the public, it is a public service, not an executioner of partial political interests. In recent weeks, public service has grown in both trust and ratings. That's eloquent. Why change now, you'll say - because it's about time. Why didn't you do it as a government client - simply because in the List of Marjan Šarca we never interfered with the composition of the RTV Programme Council, nor in the composition of the Supervisory Council. We simply did not solve the members prematurely. We are now observing the war against the media by the main government party. Its first mocks, despises, divides the likeness of the court into all that is unlovable to the media, especially RTV. That's enough. Enough of this psychosis, jumping on the media and public service, even through messages that RTV contributions are superfluous, too high, too unnecessary. When we were preparing for today's debate, we were wondering what the main argument would be that you would not support the law in the coalition in the first reading, so that you might not give it a chance. We have come to believe that your main argument, and I hope not all in the coalition, that they are preparing themselves at the Ministry of Culture, led by the SDS, systemic changes, that our proposals are partial, that you will fully arrange and compare this. And I have one question, when the government's opinion says that a law is being drawn up, has anyone seen him in the coalition? If you have seen him, then you can explain that this law governs matters in its entirety. Of course, we all know here that autonomy, independence and freedom begin with non-interference, respect, non-crossing borders, tolerance. But all the slogans don't help, and they're dishonest, if reading a dispatch that doesn't seem to be, about reading a story about the media and the frog, about reading tweets is easy to keep quiet. In here, keep quiet, keep quiet, keep quiet, keep quiet. This gives just one message that there is no comment that everything is okay, that everything is allowed. And it also means that the RTV account, with our largest media, is allowed. Colleagues and colleagues, silence is spoken of, guilt is the same. The 16 programme advisors today appointed by the National Assembly would be designated directly by the professional public and civil society. That's our proposal, you know that. With a new mode of appointment and a new composition of the programming board, we do not break the system, improve it, withdraw policy. We take nothing from civil society and the professional public. However, we take to ourselves, politicians and give a lot of RTV Slovenia. Let's say we give them peace, let's say we give them freedom, independence, autonomy, give them everything I've written down, conditions that they can do without fear. Nevertheless, whatever your views so far, I propose to all of you that we consider and consider and not allow the agenda of the largest government party and its first, and this agenda is, to control information and to interpret it. Not for our own good, not for the good of democracy, not for the good of all the media, but for his and his. We are all likely to be aware together that the law without the vote of the coalition will not be adopted in the first reading and the debate on RTV will be prevented. It saddens me that if the law does not receive sufficient support, it is in the press statements that you all advocate freedom and independence of the media. You're typing about it. Why not show this today in the vote, give him the opportunity to open the debate on the law. Finally, for all those who still believe that a part of the policy will abstain from subjugating the media of all other systems that benefit it to remain in power if it has the opportunity to do so, I say one pool. The fact is, he won't hold out. The fact is, he's gonna grab all of this. Why the pool? Because also the respected President of the Government in his record of “war and media”, I think that was the title, he used a swimming pool about a frog. I'll use the scorpion and frog pool. The scorpion was caught on a piece of wood in the middle of the river, you take the lake anyway. He was in an unenviable position. By the way, the frog swims and the scorpion begs, if he can bring him, to the shore. Of course, the frog thinks and says, “I don’t know, I don’t trust you. You will bite me and we will both drown." and a scorpion with a smile with a frog explains that it will not happen. [[Incomprehensible]] If I do, we'll both drown you. We'll work together, I'll thank you forever, I'll protect you, I'll take care of you, if you have to, just take me to the other side of the coast or the shore. And, of course, a frog like a frog did her good. The Scorpion will be my ally. The Scorpion will protect me, the Scorpion will take care of me and say to him: “Of course I will take you to the other bank.” Just like a frog's mother wears that scorpion weight and blue and blue. They come to shore and scorpion frog pussy and frog all surprised, shocked: “Why did you bite me, now I’m going to die.” And the Scorpion says to her, "Yeah, that's in my nature. Therefore, do not imagine that the nature of someone will change and that he will respect RTV Slovenia does not submit it and not submit to all other institutions. One more thing. When one frog dies, sadly, another one always comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Public broadcasting is one of the postulates of democratic regulation in developed countries, or if you want otherwise its position in a social environment is a test of the development of democracy as such. Thanks to the many usurpations of the public service, which we have witnessed in the last 20 years, Slovenia has unfortunately failed to complete this test. The RTV attempt by the right political field or, rather, by the SDS Party are unfortunately regular and increasingly direct. [[Incomprehensible]] It began with the changes introduced in the operation of RTV in 2005. The 2005 law thus legalised political interference in the operation of RTV, at which time numerous domestic and foreign media professionals were alerted and spoke out loud about the recipe for disaster. This is not even a surprise if we know that the ingredients were mixed up in the House of the National Assembly far away from the light of the public. In order to avoid possible perceptions in terms of what you have been doing all these years, I would like to remind you that the Government prepared a new Law on RTV in 2010. We supported the proposal by the Social Democrats because the law was more modern and in accordance with democratic arrangements. The SDS against the RTV wave called for a referendum and later, against the RTV propaganda helped to reject the law and we are once again witnessing what has already been seen. In time, the current government dissolved three members of the Supervisory Board and appointed new members. She proposed to the National Assembly two more members before the time of discharge, but the procedure was halted because it was against the law. The mandate of the eight members of the Programme Council has also expired and they have been appointed new or only 7 candidates have received adequate support for another member. Thus, for RTV Slovenia, the period began again with the appointment of more or less politically committed staff to the Programme and Supervisory Board, but that is not enough. Many other pressures and attacks continue on the institution, as well as personal attacks on individual journalists and journalists. The pressure is back up, the insulting rhetoric remains. The LMŠ's proposal for a new law on RTV, which we are considering today, follows in particular one objective, and this is to change the composition and method of appointing members of the Programme Council. They believe that the decisive word must be returned to civil society and that the policy or national assembly should retain the power to appoint only a minority of the members of the Programme Council. The number of members of the Programme Council shall be reduced from 29 to 23 members, only 5 members of the Programme Council shall be appointed by the National Assembly, 2 members shall be appointed by the President of the Republic and the other members shall be appointed by organisations, communities, interest associations listed in the Act. In addition to the change in membership in the Programme Council, the novel also brings changes to the work governing the termination of the term of office of the members of the Programme Council. We will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Janja Slug, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u72	The proposal for a law provides for a change in the composition and method of appointing members of the programme council of Radiotelevision Slovenia so that the National Assembly and thus the policy will lose decisive influence on the composition of the programme board. RTV Slovenia is a public institution of special cultural and national importance and provides one of the fundamental functions of a democratic state, namely the exercise of the right to public information and to information. The Constitutional Court has stated in several judgments that independent press or media help to establish and form an impartially informed public and condition its ability to control all branches of government. Therefore, the legislator must ensure, through appropriate legislation, the programme, organisational and financial autonomy of public media such as RTV Slovenia. RTV Slovenia has played an important role as a public media in the COVID-19 epidemic, and we appreciate these efforts in the SMC. On the other hand, criticism of programs, shows, performances can also be welcome because it helps to improve work. The attacks aimed at the independence of RTV Slovenia and its associates are rejected by SMC policy. We still believe in professionalism, independence and independence of the media. Such a way of communicating policy with the media is certainly not something that would contribute to the greater credibility of both sides, both the media and politicians. In the SMC, we want to make such a tense relationship as little as possible. We advocate the autonomy of Slovenian media, as politically subordinate media do not benefit anyone in the long term. The media do not respond to politics, but to the public, so they do not need alliances with politics, but they need alliances with the public. However, the policy must ensure appropriate media regulation. Slovenia has been facing unfulfilled promises regarding the updating of media legislation, including the RTV Slovenia Act, since the last referendum on the RTV Slovenia Act in December 2010. In fact, the third term of office of missed opportunities is already over, and the responsibility for them lies primarily with former Culture Ministers, who are responsible for media legislation. The media landscape faces media concentration, the need for a new definition of the media due to the role of new social media, the consideration of the role and assistance to public media, the adaptation of printed media or their digitisation, and could also be listed. In the SMC Group, we support the objective outlined in the paper by the proponents, and we note that this is a very partial approach, which in our view is more due to the political response to attempts at early resolution of two members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board in the National Assembly than to some thorough reflection on how to ensure the depoliticisation of Radio Television Slovenia. Otherwise, we would propose a change in the composition of the Supervisory Board, but it would still represent a partial approach. As you know, in the SMC Group we did not support the early resolution of the members of the Supervisory Board. We supported the request to obtain an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service before the decision was taken, as well as to listen later to her comments or warnings, and therefore the proposal was withdrawn from the agenda of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The appointment of as many as two-thirds of the majority of members, by the National Assembly, undoubtedly creates a political impact on the operation and programme creation of Radiotelevision Slovenia, irrespective of the selection process and later appointment, since according to its origin and position, the National Assembly is a political body composed of elected representatives of the people as representatives of parliamentary political parties. We therefore support the fundamental idea that the law should determine which entities will be represented in the world and these entities should appoint their own representatives. We also support the idea of reducing the number of members, as it has proved in practice that such large bodies are not the most effective. The issue of world numbers and, of course, their representation should not, in our opinion, be subject to the political arbitrariness of current applicants or to the current inspiration and favouration of certain social actors. The latter can only be the product of longer public debate and consideration, and thus a wider social consensus. We also draw attention to the number and composition of the Radio Television Supervisory Board of Slovenia. Its role is also important, as it ensures both the substantive and commercial performance of public Radio Television, because it is both in the public interest and in the interest of RTV contributors as well as the specific public benefits. In the SMC Group, we believe that the RTV Slovenia Act should be implemented in a comprehensive and public RTV way, allowing greater responsibility, autonomy, commitment to the public, more transparent and efficient business and the possibility of creating quality diverse programmes. It also raises the question of the meaning of the status form of RTV Slovenia as a public institution, because we believe that RTV Slovenia should take on a more flexible, organisational form. The issue of the status of journalists as public servants is raised. Particular attention should also be paid to ensuring an urgent technological update for the provision of new audiovisual and information services, so that RTV can successfully follow developments and can also be listed. In the SMC Group, we are not inclined to amend such important laws as the RTV Slovenia Act by a procedure that does not guarantee the participation of both the general public and the professional public and does not share coordination between key stakeholders and the addressees of the regulation itself. The last attempt to amend the law, which was rejected at the referendum in December 2010, was prepared by a selected expert group, composed of 20 members. At the time, the law had been in public hearing for a long time, a public presentation had been made in the National Assembly, and a joint declaration on the harmonisation of the bill was signed by two trade unions of journalists. RTV Slovenia does not need partial solutions, as a result of the political response to current events, but needs a completely new law offering public RTV in line with the goals, wishes and needs of listeners, viewers and users. The law, which will increase autonomy, will also aim at improving the efficiency of operations aimed at improving the quality of programmes and new services aimed at introducing new technologies and so on. On the basis of the above, in the SMC Group, although we agree with the objective of the law, we will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues. We must be aware that Radiotelevision Slovenia is a public institution of special cultural and national importance. He performs public service in the field of radio and television activities with the aim of providing democratic, social and cultural needs for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenians worldwide, members of Slovenian national minorities in Italy, Austria and Hungary, the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the Republic of Slovenia, and other activities in accordance with the law and statute of RTV Slovenia and the law governing the field of the media. It shall also exercise the constitutional right of the public to information. The founder of the public institution RTV Slovenia is the Republic of Slovenia, it is the responsibility of the founder to ensure institutional autonomy and editorial independence of RTV Slovenia, so politics has nothing to look for there. Pika. The proposed novel is intended to change the composition and method of appointing members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Board. The proposal states that the objective is more balanced representation of civil society and a reduction in the impact of policy in the composition of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. We note that the bill follows the principle of institutional autonomy and independence of RTV Slovenia by reducing the number of programme councilors appointed by the National Assembly. The new sixth paragraph of Article 17, for the first time, reduces the number of members of the Programme Council and, secondly, changes in the composition and competence of the appointment. A solution is proposed to reduce the number of members of the Programme Council from 29 to 23, of which only five are appointed by the National Assembly and the remaining two by the President of the Republic and 16 by civil society. The power to appoint a majority of the members of the Programme Council shall be revoked by the National Assembly, except for those five members proposed by five parliamentary parties, the largest by number of Members, if several political parties have the same number of Members, and the outcome of the elections to the National Assembly shall be taken into account. Instead of the National Assembly after a new one, the right to appoint the main members of the Programme Board public service RTV Slovenia. They are delegated by professional organisations of journalists 2 members, employees of RTV Slovenia 3 members, President of Republic 2 members and one member of SAZU, Italian National Community, Hungarian National Community, Organisation of the Deaf and Deaf, Organization of Blind and Visually Observable, NGOs in public interest in the field of sport, Department of Journalism of the Faculty of Social Sciences, Ombudsman, Association of Slovenian Writers and Association of Dramatic Artists, Professional Associations of Music Artists and Professional Associations in the field of film and audiovisual production. With regard to the revised composition of the body, it is not clear by which key the proposed amendment of the law has been imposed on representatives of civil society organisations or the professional public. This Article should follow the principle of equal representation of stakeholders, which is not sufficient, the areas are selected in a consultative and selective manner, some areas are completely omitted. For example, cultural representatives from the fields of music, theatre, film and literature are envisaged, some are already designated, some are associations, others are only mentioned in the field of action. Sports organisations are treated on their own from vulnerable social groups, and only two blind and visually impaired and deaf and deaf are represented. The intention to limit and reduce the impact of political parties and the ruling policy on the work of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council is positive and, of course, we support it. However, the novel proposal itself does not provide this sufficiently consistently. It is not clear how the change will limit the impact of policy on the composition and work of RTV Slovenia's bodies simply by reducing the number of members of the Programme Council and by reducing the number of programme councillors appointed by the National Assembly, while the number of members of the Programme Council delegated by the National Assembly remains the same. We also don't understand why two are appointed president of the Republic. The proposaler seems to have come only halfway through. On the left we advocate the withdrawal of policies from the authorities of RTV Slovenia, only to prevent constant attacks on the announcement of TV service, bile race against journalists and media offensives fought by Prime Minister Janša, who receives international dimensions, harms the reputation of Slovenia, in particular the attack on freedom of journalists, the autonomy of the media and also the ecclatic violation of the constitutional right of the public to information. Twitter and other public attacks on journalists have recently escalated into extreme lowliness of mind, primitive, bizarre accounting and hate speech, and into discourse, unworthy of basic literacy, rather than civilized communication. The President of the Government calls for the abolition of the RTV contribution, which means the abolition of one vital source of RTV funding, precisely the one which guarantees independence and political impartiality. That is why we believe in Levica that a delicate area needs to be regulated by law. Nor can we pass the attempts of the ruling coalition and the SDS party to adopt absolute domination in both the RTV Slovenia Programme and the RTV Supervisory Council. The discharge of supervisors before the end of the mandate and the appointment of new ones constitutes an intervention in the autonomy of the public institution. It also constitutes a violation of the RTV Slovenia Act, since Article 26 of this Act allows the supervisor to be dismissed before the end of a four-year term only if the supervisor fails to meet the required conditions, for example, because of the incompatibility of functions, or if the supervisor resigns himself. The illegality and unconstitutionality of such a rhosada have also been found by the Legislative and Legal Service; this, therefore, is no longer the representatives who have a four-year mandate, but are only the puppets of each government. The current coalition already has a majority in the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Council, thus establishing full control over the public RTV service. The fact that 9 out of 11 supervisors and 21 out of 29 programme councilors of RTV Slovenia appoints politics and current early discharges and new appointments to the authorities of RTV Slovenia by policy line clearly distances the RTV house from the principle of independence and autonomy and blocks any normal functioning of the public service. We are witnesses to nothing but subjugation of public television on both the programme and the control council, and the view of Levice is that politics from public RTV should be withdrawn because there is really nothing to look for there. Public broadcasting must not be a service of political interests, and therefore programme councilors, who must be advocates of the public's interest, must not employ politics. This is in total contradiction with the mission of this body, as it gives up its critical guidance function and becomes easily manipulated by each individual government. In Levica, we believe that the proposed amendment to the RTV Slovenia Act can be supported, provided that the actual reduction in the number of representatives from policy types or this segment is fully withdrawn and that the principle of equal and balanced inclusion of civil society and the professional public is clearly defined. We also believe that similar changes are needed in the future with regard to the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board. Our aim is to protect the legality and autonomy of the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia. That is why we will support this proposal in the first reading in Levica, because we believe that in the second reading we can also address all the shortcomings and concerns I have expressed in this address. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much. As the last position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mrs Tadeja Šuštar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. The number of members of the RTV Programme Council is decreasing from 29 to 23 by means of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the RTV Act, and the powers of appointment are also changing. Following the current regulation, the National Assembly appoints 21 members of the Programme Council, 16 on the proposal of viewers and listeners, and 5 on the proposal of political parties. The other 8 members are appointed by one Hungarian and Italian national communities and by the SAZU, the two Presidents of the Republic on a proposal from registered religious communities and three employees of RTV Slovenia. According to the new proposal, the National Assembly would appoint only five members, on the proposal of the five largest parties, the other members would appoint three other employees on RTV Slovenia, two professional organisations of journalists and one SZU, the Italian and Hungarian national communities, the President of the Republic of one on a proposal from universities, organisations of deaf and deaf, NGOs in public interest in sport, the Department of Journalism at the FDV, among higher education teachers, the Ombudsman, the Association of Slovenian Writers and the Association of Dramatic Artists, professional associations of music artists and professional associations in the field of film and audiovisual production. We do not support the bill in New Slovenia. We wonder, however, how this law’s proponents did not change when they had all the options and the majority in the National Assembly. If we were to advocate that politics would not have an impact on RTV, this would be best shown during their term of office or now they do not like that the often unobjective reporting of RTV Slovenia is not even more committed to this government, I don't know. They didn't say it in public. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we advocate a diversity of opinions and consequently for various media. We advocate objectively critical, professional and independent reporting, which takes into account freedom of expression, opinion plurality and ethical standards. Media content providers with public status must focus on their original, non-commercial role and programme diversity, as they will only remain relevant. They must also be accessible on online platforms and be substantively and technically relevant to expectations, both of the standard audiences and of new peripheral, vulnerable, interchangeable and other target groups. Christian Democrats stress in particular the role of the public institution of RTV Slovenia in the non-commercial representation of the fundamental and intangible cultural heritage and speech culture. It must be not only informative, but it must help to shape the public's attitude towards valuable content. We want the media and, above all, RTV Slovenia to recognize the interests of as many different citizens as possible and to reflect this in their programmes. The opinion on a specific topic should be created by users themselves on the basis of objectively presented facts. In Slovenia we have often witnessed inaccurate reporting, which we find unacceptable, but this will not change the composition of the RTV Programme Council. This can only change the awareness of editors and journalists that they bear a great deal of responsibility to viewers, listeners, and readers. This can only change their commitment to objectivity and truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Ms Lidija Dijak Mirnik was the first to make a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. On the question of why we did not do this when we had our government, as NSI has just told us, as the Minister for Culture has also told us. The answer is very simple. Because the LMŠ was not a human resources rover by RTV, it did not change supervisors to the second or first or any government meeting already, it was not violent and unlawful to change even those to whom there was no theory of having them and not changing the programming saints. That is why we are investing what we have invested today. Among other things, the Minister of Culture said he supported and would support any step that would help improve the programme. I am very pleased with those words and, of course, I can say that the coalition today has the opportunity to take this good step even today, or tomorrow, when we vote. In fact, let this proposed law support the fact that in the programming world, individuals who know something in the media, who know what a public service is and who are called a profession and civil society there, therefore, are people who, for the first time, understand the importance of quality media for the development of a democratic society. Second, who knows what the public interest in the media is. Third time they know the mission of the public media. Fourthly, they consider whether they are aware of their behaviour, knowledge, work done or carried out in general to co-decision on the future of programmes and on the structure of RTV and people who can ask themselves whether they can be impartial or merely a prolonged policy deadline. Look at the members of the party who are currently sitting in the programming world, this coalition named them by the way. As far as Desus's point of view is concerned. We have heard, among other things, that it is the task of the media to bear the truth. I'm sure they're carrying it except for some of the things you know I'm talking about. I have no doubt that it is being tolerated. But it is a question of respectable colleagues or is this truth that you see, hear and read, and that is a question. The fact that the media also play the role of control of power we have heard doubts about it will only say yes, and control is the task of the media. That's what's obviously bothering you, and I'm gonna make a dot here. With regard to the comments made by Mrs Jerajeva SDS that members of the Programme Council could also be appointed by any other Organisation of the Association of Society, if we have chosen poorly I hope, Mrs Jeraj, that the blind and visually impaired have their own member of the Programme Council, I believe you do not think so. I am also convinced that you are also blind, visually impaired, deaf, deaf, and deaf deserve a program saint. It is true, however, that we are open to all proposals in the LMŠ, particularly good proposals. Support the law, allow it to be further discussed and we will seek compromise this time the LMŠ offers you the hand of SDS accept it. As for SMC Mrs Janje Slug in one of the coalition parties, you have repeated your commitment to professionalism, independence and independence of the media, but you can prove and demonstrate this. Prove that you're rejecting the political subjugation of the media. Once again, we offer you a hand. We have heard that you support the proposal, however, that the entities determine their own members of the Programme Council. This can, in fact, be shaken by better proposals before the second reading. We can also include the general public in the debate, but I would like to point out that in the LMŠ we have proposed to amend only two articles of only two articles not the whole law. As we have heard, the Minister is preparing this legislation, and I have asked him this last time before the previous meeting. At that time, he said that he was not preparing her to be prepared by some professional colleagues and that they had not allowed her out for 30,000 euros, I say his words. I expect that this will be exactly what you all say independence, objectivity, sovereignty, that we will make it possible with the new law, but as long as we do not have it, and we do not know when we will have it, I suggest you support these two amendments. Now it is only possible to remind those colleagues who may not have read that previous law of RTV in its entirety. Today's membership of the Programme Council has 29 members, 21 of whom are named here, 21 of whom are appointed here. 5 on the proposal of political parties directly and 16 on the proposal of viewers and audiences of universities and universities and associations, associations of associations or their organisations in particular in the field of the art of culture, science and journalism and other civil society organisations other than political parties and their organisational forms. That sounds very good, because it's written on paper and the paper carries everything, and in fact, it's these 16 political names. I remember the MVK where you coordinated, the coalition that you're going to support, and then one coalition party made a little mistake, but it didn't go through all eight of the new program councillors, but only seven. So much for this so-called civil society. And we want civil society to do this directly. Have civil society and the professional public agree on who they will put in without being given a policy. And of course it's important, not that they're right in there, not that we understand each other. Now, according to our proposal, 13 members remain the same on the same principle, says 5 National Assembly on a proposal from political parties, 2 President of the Republic, because this is already the case, one Hungarian national community, one Italian national community, one SAZU and three of them elect employees on RTV, where the change is that at least one of these three must be one of the regional centres. We know two regional cents, you probably know, one is in Cyprus, one is in Maribor, which also covers Lendava. We think it's right that these employees, too, say at the regional centres, have the opportunity to have their own representative, because you know, far away from the centre, far away from the eyes, you know what it's called. We are proposing these 10 members, two from the professional organization of journalists, and one from the professional organization of journalists, deaf and deaf, blind and visually impaired, NGOs in public interest in the field of sport, the Department of Journalism, the Ombudsman, the Association of Slovenian Writers and the Association of Dramatic Artists, professional associations of music creators and professional associations in the field of film and audiovisual production, but we are open to proposals. If you support the first reading, then in the second reading, we can amend everything we agree on together, because we are all concerned with the fact that RTV is independent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We continue the debate as the first to receive Mrs Natasa Sukič's word, and Mr Jožef Horvat is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam President, for your word, for your kind greeting. We have witnessed recent attempts to replace the two supervisors who passed the law, in short, to suspend the mandate of supervisors who passed the law and so on. Today, when I listened to these presentations, it is already true which one of us here advocates that the policy must be fully withdrawn, i.e. the impact of the policy of Radiotelevision of Slovenia as a public service, or the opinion of those who have only agreed and here you are, as far as I know, all of us need to reduce the number of members and members of the programme board. Yes, Minister Simoniti agrees that this number should be reduced, but according to what we have seen recently, however, the Minister-designate can rightly worry about how you actually represent this reform of the law in the light of the practices that we are witnessing to them by your party. Practices of continuous accounting with the media and practice, which took the target for its head quite Radiotelevision Slovenia. In view of this, with all the discredit, with these pressures on RTV Slovenia and other media, of course, you have actually begun to take over power immediately after the takeover. You immediately launched your offensive against Slovenian media, not even against foreign media, because this, when I asked Prime Minister Janša, I also raised against, say, Deutsche Welle, against The Economist, against anyone who might ever paint a picture about you, about your government, or about your client, or about your prime minister, who you do not like, no. And in the international space, even with dispatches, no, you launched a race against the media in Slovenia and accused most of the media in Slovenia of being some communists and such things. So, see, here we are talking about a public service which, according to the preamble to the 1971 Munich Declaration, which is an international standard, must provide the following in particular. This public service is responsible and therefore the responsibility of journalists to the public is beyond any other responsibility, especially responsibility for employers and public authority. Pika. There shouldn't be a dilemma about that. The preamble also states that the right to information on freedom of speech and criticism is one of the most fundamental freedoms, and that is what our public service provides. The contents of this service are, of course, extremely diverse, including those with which I do not personally identify myself, but for this I will not launch attacks or attacks on journalists and go some way against this medium, which is our central public medium. Absolutely not, but there's a lot there that I don't think is personal. I'm not gonna list anything. As far as your pursuit is concerned, your war, as I said it, even though Prime Minister Janša denied it, is that the war with the media is not possible. Of course it's possible. What he's doing are some tactics and strategies of eternal assault on the media. I'll just serve with specific information so you won't tell me I'm making up anything. During the first week of the reign, the prime minister took a personal look at the pressure and specifically at RTV Slovenia. The media center is really your stop on the target you're shooting at. This is what the official Twitter profile of the crisis headquarters of the Republic of Slovenia has been used to write down, and I quote: “You are obviously too much and you are too well paid.” That's how a government communicates with RTV employees. And why? Because RTV opened up critically, it launched news that it was clear that you had raised your pay grade at the time and thus raised your wages and that was enough. Sufficient reason for someone on the official Twitter profile of the crisis headquarters of the Republic of Slovenia to dare write something like this. And if this isn't the pressure of politics, the ruling policy on the public service of RTV, then tell me what it really is. Then let's move on. For example, a few days ago, via the official government Twitter profile was reported, and I quote: “The RTV is richly financed by citizens, but it deals with how to build one government and tear down another government, which is not what people pay 12.75 euros a month.” And I quote: "Sometimes people who pay these bills don't know that there's a chance they won't pay for it. The law also allows exceptions and I propose that they look in this direction” said Prime Minister Janša personally in his television broadcast on Novi 24TV. New 24TV, which you're obviously setting as an example of, what, excellent journalistic practices. Are you serious? But this is the medium that citizens and citizens are supposed to want, like some level of journalism, like a standard that they're supposed to aspire to, and this is of course your clientele TV house and you are proud shareholders, many prominent members of this TV house, which is of course a factory of lies, manipulations, hate speech, etc. Well, that's the standard, and I'm afraid when you're going to do the renovations with your RTV Slovenia law, we're not going to witness such standards at the end. We also recently read the swimming pool about frogs cooked in milk water or about the recording of the prime minister of war with the media, which again directly attacks RTV Slovenia, well also POPTV, but RTV Slovenia. And this government is supposed to trust me to draw up a law that will — What? – protect the autonomy of this medium, allow this medium to operate in accordance with the Munich Declaration, with international standards? To this, let us trust you after all that we see, after all the discredits and aggressive attacks on the house itself, as well as on journalists who have been characterised, forgive as prostitutes. And then we are surprised that we have been judged by Dunja Mijatović, Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe in society, a group of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, the Czech Republic, Romania, Azerbaijan and so on. And then Janez Janša tells me smoothly when I reminded him that in his first term, Slovenia was in a reverential ninth place, in the ninth place, after some international classification, concerning some media freedom and so on. Yes, it was at the beginning of your term, because it was the legacy of the previous governments. Do you know where she was at the end of your term? At 30. And last time, in answer to my question, John Janša didn't say that. Unfortunately, I didn't have that information back then to answer. And I'm answering him today. Live manipulation and a lie again. Yes, 9th place at the beginning of the mandate, the heritage of Drnovskov and LDS governments and 30th place your legacy after four years. That's what happened in your first term. What will happen now that you have launched a relentless, shameless pursuit against public broadcasting and also against other media, against research journalists and so on. We're just wondering where you're taking us, actually. And, of course, something should be done, respected proponents, that politics should no longer interfere with our central public service or the media. But I'm sorry that you didn't take advantage of these opportunities when you were actually in government, because now they have a chance for others. And if the entire coalition is going to support this because it's going to be produced in the SDS party, then I think we're getting very badly. Then I think we're gonna get some media, some kind of marriage that's gonna go down the path of some Orban or Donald Trump. I'm sorry. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat, and prepare yourself for Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a co-worker! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Madam Vice-President, I would just like to remind you that I will talk about the 11th item of the agenda of the National Assembly meeting, which discusses the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Radio Television Act of Slovenia signed by your colleagues and colleagues from the List of Marjan Šarc. It is respectful that we are talking about the content on the agenda, if proposed by Members or Government, anyone. But it's not like we're talking about anything. No one asked me, but I believe that these six hours, as envisaged for the debate on this bill, a very important law, will probably be just what school hours of content. But we'll listen to everything else. Maybe that's the goal, but I'm saying it's not, but I understand. First of all, the founder of the Public Institute of Radiotelevision of Slovenia is the Republic of Slovenia is the Republic of Slovenia. It is the responsibility of the founder to ensure institutional autonomy and editorial independence of RTV Slovenia and to provide adequate funding for the public service. This article does not change, which means that I find it difficult to understand the debate, particularly by the applicants, that a policy must be withdrawn from this public institution. I don't think so. Maybe the programming board and the supervisory board still need to be strengthened. I'm not gonna say, on the political side, no. Indeed, in New Slovenia we understand the independence of the media, we understand the independence of the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia, but if we really wanted to modernise the law, which is the purpose of the minister, which he also announced, and if - very well - the LMŠ came along in the form of a partnership for development or whatever, we would jointly draft a draft or a proposal for a law and then put it on a parliamentary bench. It's not like that. Just my personal opinion - and it is not interesting for the public - and my conviction why this law was introduced in the middle of May. Because, colleagues and colleagues, let me remind you of February 27th, then the exercise government held another - who? - Marjan Sarec. On 27 February, the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission was held, where at point 11 we addressed the nomination procedure for the appointment of 8 members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Law on RTV Slovenia. I suggest you read - also Slovenian public - a magnetogram. With regard to this point, we have adopted two conclusions: “First, the Mandate-Volution Commission shall initiate the nomination procedure for the appointment of 8 members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia.” And we voted, 16 members of the Mandate-Election Commission were in favour, no one was against, and the LMŠ was not against. And another conclusion: “The mandate-election commission sets out the text”, the text “public calls for the nomination of candidates for 8 members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, which is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia and on the websites of the National Assembly”. 16 members supported this proposal for a decision, no one opposed it, and the LMŠ was not against it. That was recently, February 27th. At the presentation itself it was seen - but okay, I understood this as a literary contribution, as some literary enrichment of this point of the agenda, when we heard a fairy tale about the frog, about the scorpion, maybe the fairy tales and stories about the Goryans will follow, rather than about Prekmurje than the local patriot Ups, in Prekmurje, but it will be severe there! [[…]] Not because of Prekmur, but in connection with RTV Slovenia; I don't know if anyone is listening to me. Of course, we also honor the valuable unit RTV Slovenia, where my constituents, citizens and citizens from this area, bilingual, told me that in this unit the Slovenian language - both voters and citizens - is prohibited, Slovenian language is prohibited. I only tolerate what Prekmurke and Prekmurci tell me in my office, which is also in my home. Is that right, however, when we say that our statehood is established in the Slovenian language? I'm just asking. Yes, it is not an item of the agenda, but in this country the Slovenian language is prohibited. Unbelievable. We need to fix this. In the Law on RTV Slovenia, which we now want to change and in the Statute - I reviewed in detail - RTV Slovenia does not write this anywhere. If in my country, where the mother tongue of the majority people of Slovenia is banned, whether in a different medium, then we are not well placed. Of course, politicians are never satisfied with what the media are writing about us, let us be frank, but we must recognise media freedom. If it ever seems very subjective to me that perhaps some media about our marriage is underreported to you too, colleagues and colleagues, when it seems that in your so good project, which you think is good and perhaps really good in the media does not listen and not the spirit. Indeed, we are told by journalists who are in some way our fellow workers, because if they were not a bridge between our actions and between the Slovenian public - especially those who are exclusively on the market, so that political stories, events in the National Assembly, are not sold, the laws are considered to be bad or not sold at all. I understand this commercial component, but the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia has a different mission. I looked at the statistics when I applied for this debate. There are also many things we are not satisfied with the content, but if the media - in general - are reporting on us. I cannot be satisfied if the media - specifically this - reports that a company donated to New Slovenia because it is not donated or is, then it is a blow to the Court of Auditors, which revises every political party campaign, to the cent and thank God that it revises. If you buy some items for 300 euros at some company and you pay it and you have this evidence, it doesn't mean that it's a donation from a company that's a legal person and it's not legal, but we have to live with it, it's also confusing to journalists and probably to politicians in particular, but I'm not going to go into the details right now. What do I mean? Practically in the last six, seven years, we have not requested any correction from RTV Slovenia and could give it this basis by law. One more time. We respect the freedom of the media, including those that allow online portals - and here I really don't think about MMC - allow anonymous people to have some part of the form to brutally mutilate our good name and our family, which is even more painful. My personal experience a few days ago, you know hard, despite the fact that his anonymity tells everything. These are weaklings who do not hope to introduce themselves, who do not hope to lift their heads to the surface, but who are somewhere in the underworld writing: “The Ambassador of Horvath, perhaps sometimes another, is a criminal, is part of a criminal association.” More. He's been a killer lately. Yes, I have this print for the memory of my memory book. Is that okay? These are questions that we may have to open at some point despite the open internet that we are defending in New Slovenia, but the open internet does not mean that an anonymous person can mud, so he commits crimes. Now you say that in the RTV Slovenia Program World, there are individuals who know something about it, about the media, about the radio, about television. I agree, I agree. But there must be a lot of them. For example, the assumption that 100,000 of them are in Slovenia, will they all sit in it, in the programming world? It won't work. That's exactly why someone has to choose them. I am sure that if he chooses LMŠ, he will choose different ones than if he chooses New Slovenia and what is now the best solution here is to choose them from the National Assembly, not who we are from the people, but I am sent. So, I conclude that, I will not tell you that you have submitted this now, why you did not at the time when you were in the Government, but I mentioned the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, on February 27th, when you agreed, no one was opposed to having the candidate procedure signed for 8 members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, which is very difficult to choose, but I think that we had 62 regular applications, 62, very difficult to choose, because they have to get at least 10 votes in the current composition of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which means that we only need some agreement, probably, or that with some "iteration" steps, we choose these 8, but we have not succeeded, we have only chosen 7, nothing bad. I propose that, to colleagues and colleagues from LMŠ, they actively participate in the amendments to the new law referred to by the Minister, who wrote, the draft is written and that we make an updated law here. Every public institution, and probably also RTV Slovenia, needs updates. Those adopted by us in the 2004-2008 mandate would certainly today, in the form and content of that time, not function perfectly, but something important, was confirmed by the people at the referendum on 25 September 2005, which means, given that the people have power in this country, it was probably not as bad as it is today. So, on my part and on my part, my understanding of the introduction of this proposal for a law, bearing in mind that the Ministry is preparing or the Government is preparing a more comprehensive overhaul, today I decide that the law is suitable for further consideration, I will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath, for your discussion. Now, given that you have spoken to me at the outset and about the topic that we are discussing today, I must say that so far, in no debate, the topic has gone so wide that I could mediate, except now I must admit, in your debate when you even said that you would discuss the content that is not an item of the agenda, but I was so correct that I did not interrupt you and mix your thoughts with you, so I suggest that we leave the other debate a little wider, given that this is a general debate. We now proceed, the proposer has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I must respond to Mr Horvath's debate, but I must say, Mr Horvat, that we do not need moralization, nor patronage, nor any sermon in the List of Marjan Šarc, because we have adhered to current legislation on 27 February at the MVK. We really don't need it. You don't even need to be such a politician and involve Mr. Marjan Šarc. That's all you do because you like to do it with such joy. Yes, Mr. Marjan Sarec has stepped down because he's assessed it that way, that's it. Now, if you like it or not, it's different. But it's true that if he doesn't do it and you don't care, I'm done. [[…]] So, we supported the amendments to the MVK, or the invitation to tender for the nomination procedure, because the mandate of the members of the Programme Council has expired, "Simpl as a Bean". What are we supposed to do, go against it? There was no reason at all, and we are proposing to amend these two articles today. By the way, you said at that session: NSI didn't get any candidates, that's what you said, so roughly, but we chose members of the civil initiative, listening, professional public. Well, you see, this is wrong, and so we want to change the fact that NSI, because it didn't get any candidates, so, "by the way," it is, but let's leave it, it won't have any effect, none of us here in this room, that's the goal of this change to get policy out of the programming world, because there's nothing to look for, that's the goal. And I would like from you as a long-standing MEP with a “Ochoho” mileage, who very much likes to moralize and educate all of us, and “OK”, because you are older, and more long here, okay, we are listening to this, we expect that you will support this change because now in these years of political action you have seen that this is not right, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am very honored that, on behalf of the motioners, the lady who proposed, or a Member, has referred to my debate. If you have understood my debate as a lesson, I am even more honored, but the fact is, no, this February 27th, the MVK meeting may not be that critical, it is more critical on the 27th last month, no, January. Then Marjan Šarec resigned, and if it were not, there would not have been so many mistakes that are happening today, there would not have been, it would not have been destroyed by Nova Slovenija, a colleague of Lydia, so that then, on January 27th, there is the original sin of everything that you cannot accept today, now that you have come to your senses that you no longer rule. We just took over the government with a heavy heart because we knew what was waiting for us, an epidemic and so on and empty warehouses, no, and so on. You're the only thing you've done, you've declared an epidemic, no, but now, here you have a country, infected, the virus is here, it's like this, it's different. So thank you for your response, because there will be more.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Horvat, for the second time you have gone very, very far over today's topic, today's topic is not the resignation of the former Prime Minister and this was not a replica, because in the replica you should have explained what you were misinterpreted in your debate, but you have in fact disputed the reasons for the withdrawal of Marjan Šarc, so another warning, well, today. Mrs. Proposer? [[No, no, ……]] We continue the debate, Dr. Franz Duck has the word, but get ready for the mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u88	Yes, thank you very much for your word. Literary contributions are also very diverse in the National Assembly. Now, if we continue to ask ourselves what it is and what it should be or should be RTV SLO, as well as officially under the law on this institution, I personally think it is to a large extent and it should be even more what I call the generosity of content. It also includes “greediness”, which no one likes. And this generosity, “mightyness” and content is in all the richness of the platforms that this public agency has very high importance for, radio, television, MMC, digital part of the archive, regional and so on. Now RTV Slovenia, as one of the unionists there said, is not just a daily-information program, which is a lot of distractions and it is there about one quarter of the content. Personally, I think there's too much of it, basically we have that third programme, and there we could also squeeze some daily reviews, what kind of debate and that's it. Personally, I'd rather see some culinary show more and beans aren't such a nice thing, Lydia. One good recipe for beans says, “put an old nail and a spoon of honey”, and then the beans are good, with a good tattoo. If we go, what's the basic mission here, the National Assembly. I call the operating conditions of the systems and the sub-systems. To begin with, of course, to understand what you are doing, to adopt appropriate legislation, to ensure that money is also provided that this legislation can be implemented, including adequate public education, so that we have the resources that they can carry out, not some kind of party recruitment. And in the Slovenian constitutional order, the government is the executive branch of the government that has to do this, you know. And who are we here in the National Assembly to cry out what's wrong, what's wrong, what's wrong with the art, what's wrong, what's unacceptable, what's unacceptable, and then we're hitchhiking, and I don't know if Joseph's on the program anymore and I'm asking you nicely. We're not going to mention a gentleman you say after 60 years plus he won't change. Don't let this gentleman get to me. My late grandmother said, "You can't teach an old ox how to drive," and the end of my late grandmother's quote, and maybe now you'll sue her noblely and I'll represent her. But I personally think in a society that thinks of itself, any public person who sets up a mirror to name prostitutes would be a media dead and a journalistic organization would have to do so. No matter what function he was in, he is or he will be. Pika, easy. That would have happened with the Austrians' neighbors, believe me. I know someone who said something in Parliament, and then he had to step down for it. RTV Slovenia is neither state nor party, nor public house, nor service as many of you understand. Many of you understand the service, so that, as we say in White Krajina, your ass should starve to expect you to be or are ah and oh beautiful. Now, in particular the right-wing culprit in Slovenian politics is so fond of talking about the old system, as it is still a strict system up and down. We do have some relics of the old system. One of these relics is that this National Assembly, as I call it, still craves the judges and the judges of the ordinary courts and here I very much agree with the former President of the Constitutional Court that this relic of the old system should be abolished. This was somehow mentioned by Minister Klemenčič and Minister of State, Social Democratic Mrs Katič, for this we need, of course, because it is a constitutional change, you know what. The relic of the old system is that here we bid farewell to who will be some commission that will determine who will receive Prešeren's prizes and awards. The relic of the old system is also that we yearn for something here or to determine what, three quarters of the composition of the world of RTV Slovenia. Probably for some, yes, purely operational reasons, you know, the logic of numbers would be slightly smaller number composition would be more operational, but the task of a self-thinking society is to enable the autonomy of systems and subsystems to be key with their responsibility. It's called professional deontology. Cerares would call ethics and need some professions. And what I've actually been in pain for six years in this National Assembly - and I'm not going to say that when I'm not carried in this direction - that we're insanely humiliating to a whole range of professions. One day someone doesn't like Mrs Rosh, the next day he'll take a picture with her, and I very much agree with her. No, fuck, I'm not gonna apologize for being a good Member anymore! That, like my colleague Marko or Meira or something that we have here, Violeta, Željko, I prepare very generously for the meetings of the National Assembly, that I have twice been slapped for this together, and I would almost die for the third time, and I will not go pinging on any networks with some people who will beat me up a little bit. Even with some secretary of state, cabinet, no. You like to read text very much on your right, and I'm going to read something to you, by the way, which kind of tells me, "Let's take time" Wait till I find it. I, like, "I think there's some sort of criminal procedure against you. If they send you to jail, I promise I'll get you some bean cans. Ha, ha, ha, I'm kidding" It's you, it's you! Even about one John Janša losing words, please! I'd rather learn to knit when I'm 50, and I'll know when I'm 60. And I also agree with Alenka Zupančič, no flavors are discussed. Personally, I think she is the most brilliant person in Slovenia who says, but you know, "after the epidemic we go back to some normality." What they call a lot of Jancism is part of this abnormality, which has been fuelled together by the whole policy. And if anything, we have to get away from this, under the notes, "normality". If anything, as a legislative body, we need to move towards an autonomous system. But you know, we have whatever you're looking at, too, is, I'll tell you, some shit in the end. We have three associations of congregations, and the journalists on the left will share on the right - it's strange that the firefighters haven't split yet, by God! This is some bullshit we have to end. But you know, and here it is about two in the heart of a different ideological look - Joko has now gone out - or all of a living ethatization - he spoke somehow, yes, because the country has set up, and then more - what should be attributed to the late Mr. Oman, because it doesn't matter what it is, it matters that our slabiser is not! On the other hand, we have a view, which is the view of the 21st century, and we need to destrateise matters. Otherwise, all young people who have a mind will escape from this beautiful chicken, regardless of the good restaurants. And one thing I would like to talk about is, of course, it seems necessary for me to legalise the moderation and deanimation of comments on all digital platforms. But you know, basically, well, if you're a little bit of this profession like me, because a lot of these anonymous guys with a middle-class hacker who's worse than Ornik, they get caught, we find them. And to me, you're always trying to hack into the computer there from some basement. He's gonna make me a movie once! But you know, I, I don't know, 20 years ago with some Australian who lived in New Zealand, And if I get a movie, some servers are gonna burn. All of this can be kept in constant respect, respected gentlemen, who are so fond of behaving and threatening everyone alive. And we are - something already - radical titists. But you know, the Venezuelan clone I welcome you, President of the Government, on my private television, and 99% of you are in favour of me. But you know, autoreflexion. Politics is a public use of mind. In the six fucking years I've been here, I've seen a little bit more of this public use of mind. Yesterday we received some book by the majority of Members, the Heineken affair in Africa, because I don't know if it's by the amount, we have to report the KPK or not, I have to ask myself. Why am I telling you this now? In the Netherlands, they have a state fund for research journalism. What does that mean? To pay the country to five journalists who would thoroughly investigate the mask affair and write a book about it. Whether the people will be wise enough to give someone another or a third option, let us let them stand. This is the company I personally seek. I would also like to have more quality national entertainment on RTV, although maybe it's not really my field or attachment, I know that a colleague is there for this. Why not? It's our, as they say, insubstantial cultural heritage. Of course I'd like more Maribor. I often feel that only Slovenia is a Ljubljana boiler or part of it, but I love Ljubljana. I walk her early in the morning when most of you are still asleep. If we touch the partnership. For we have a partnership signed between the coalition and the opposition, each government's signed partnership is called the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pike, end. There is no need, there is something to be signed there because the current government and the president are what you wanted. Here the LMŠ is evident that this is not communicated with stakeholders, with the public, which is true, to a certain extent. But in this partnership, you wanted to actually discuss it under the bill table so that it wouldn't go public. It's a 21st century democracy policy. It's not some old system you're on your right side of the bitch crazy. By this logic, I'm the greatest right-wing man, and by Grims' definition, you're the greatest left-wingers, but let's leave it at that. It seems to me that we would need a sober reflection of which to deethatize all systems, to distract them from the fact that we will have everything here alive, I don't know. Probably someone would like to miss Mr. Slovenia, and which priest will go to Eurovision we choose in the National Assembly. [[…]] Sometimes I think we're at a stage of almost this kind of crazy. Which country in Europe has the most regulated professions? Germany. Why not? They also have quite strong unions and probably more citizens, citizens and citizens there can afford to eat, say, a restaurant with "Michaelenko" or something like that. Beyond these literary contributions more or less unfortunate in the National Assembly, this is our task, so we are basically paid. It's not like we're gonna start thinking about everything that's alive. But you know, because there's another thing that's getting more and more on my chest in these six years, but there are some professional decisions, some are political decisions. Wait, we don't live in a century when we start witches. In a good layman's way, politics must also understand the expertise, not just the unu professionalism contained in a tiny bubble called my political options. Slovenia will be normal when we, I don't know, I am a guest on RTV Slovenia together, let's say a journalist who was already beaten, now I will just mention you, Mr Petek. I don't know, you should be the first to tell your first boss and the main organizer of the government under Article 114. I'll get it over with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Ms. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you. Only a mere call, Sir Trček, we have communicated with all stakeholders, sent to all the Members' groups, but they have not responded. It's just so much about you talking about it. Mr Horvat, who is no longer present, mentioned earlier that the draft RTV law was written and that the LMŠ should participate constructively in this. The LMŠ has always cooperated constructively, and it will now, but of course it is a prerequisite for us to receive this draft at all and for someone to send us what the Ministry has prepared. For we have not had this information that the Ministry has already prepared, because, as we say, I asked the Minister at the meeting last month and he told me that it has not yet been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj, and prepare Mrs Violeta Tomič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Very well greeted Minister and everyone else, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, already in Article 1 of the Act it is stated that Radiotelevision Slovenia is a public institution of special cultural and national importance. At the same time, the proposaler also points out that the basis for the functioning of public services, which is not good for Mr Trčku, because it is an institution and is a service, education, public information and therefore they do not provide content through the views of politicians, the market or advertisers, but through public views or the public. At the same time, they point out that it is not good for politicians to have management ambitions, because, somehow, the media are an extended policy deadline. Here I wonder whether it has been so far, and at that time probably it has been possible for the applicant and others in the opposition to do so after the year, but at the same time, the dominant impact on the functioning of the public institution that it is necessary to return to civil society or to the public must be taken with great caution, because otherwise we may have new protests because not all societies, all those who would like to participate, will not be represented in the assembly itself. For, already in this present composition, there are 16 members proposed and then appointed by the National Assembly. However, these members are, of course, responsibly proposed, at least I hope that they have been responsibly proposed so far and were mainly from the professional public, but not from any political public. The proposed composition of the members of the Programme Council is, of course, discriminatory. It confers privileges and greater influence on the programme to certain groups and excludes others because they are not included among the proposed members in the new composition. Unfortunately, the proposal gives an impression as if they already had names to occupy these cities. The comparison with foreign countries also shows that the Slovenian regime does not deviate significantly from the rules of the other countries in the proposal. Perhaps just to maintain control of the public institution of RTV Slovenia, you are proposing a composition of the programme council, of course a new one, now that the government has changed. In this way, the proposer wants to continue to control the content and functioning of the public institution, which is not in line with the objective of the proposed novel, with which the proposer wishes to return the decisive word to civil society and to distance it from the influence of policy. Attention, the drafter wrote down, therefore, to return, so far, the policy has affected the functioning of the members of the Programme Council during the time of the government of Marjan Šarc. At the same time, I would like to point out that I would be more concerned that the important part of the guidance that the Supervisory Council has imposed on the world, the management of RTV, has not been realized, as well as what the role of the Supervisory Board has actually been, as the Director-General of RTV Slovenia, Igor Kadunc, has repeatedly been warned about the management of the institution, he also proposed to raise the contribution to which the Ministry of Culture has warned him that it is unfounded. These are also matters that should be of concern to all Members and at the same time, I would expect that in the proposal to amend the law we would also resolve such problems. Finally, I would like to say that many times I miss both the information programme and other broadcasts of content and reporting from the places where I come from, this is from the Gorski region of Slovenia. At the very least, it is reporting from the cultural field, unfortunately. What saddens me even more is that this would be expected from a public institution that is the institution of all of us and all of us pay the same amount for its contents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The proposer made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you. I could only explain to my colleague that the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council are two bodies and that today we are not talking about the Supervisory Board that you discussed, but we are talking about changing the Programme Council. [[Incomprehensible]] Maybe that's all I can understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you. She's got a replica, Madam Ambassador. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u96	I know very well the difference between one and the other, but what is at stake is that the Supervisory Board oversees and has repeatedly warned of the Director-General's function. However, it is the Programme Council which should also take into account the guidelines of the Supervisory Board and unfortunately disregarded them and still have the Director-General, if it has already proved repeatedly that it does not run the institution well.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you. Mrs. Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u98	I would repeat RTV's public service but the policy quite often perceives it as an object of desire, but it is necessary to be very honest. Not all parties are prepared to cross the limits of the tolerance at least into the LMŠ. For you, ladies and gentlemen, have previously spoken of our proposal as an impression that we already have names. You probably didn't talk about the list of Marjan Sarcas, I suppose, because when it comes to RTV the object of desire is actually one of the parties. It does not understand that RTV is far from just an information programme; only 25% is an information programme, respected colleagues and colleagues, everything else remains. And one client understands the institution as prey and leverage, which is not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor, and Mrs Janja Slug is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Maybe today is one of the hardest debates I've ever heard in six years. France Prešeren said only the shoes belong to the hooves and now the people who, apart from the fact that the boss over a pair of tweets said that they were paid too well on RTV and there are too many of them, such people who are disturbed when they turn on TV there is no program that they would want to replace as much as the Director-General and the entire control and programming board to please them 2 million people and the inhabitants are in Slovenia and will never be pleasing to everyone. That is why I find this debate very serious and very dangerous, because RTV Slovenia is the largest cultural art institution in Slovenia. The attack on RTV Slovenia is an attack on the culture of this nation, as it is not clear that political interest has nothing to do here. Several times you're reading me a theater here maybe my speech is different because it's learned, trained, because it's my education, I graduated from art and theatre games. The artistic word sometimes sounds too artificial to anyone, unfortunately, but we also hear Members who barely speak Slovenian and I don't understand them here, so I apologize if you don't like my way of discussing it. I don't think that many people have a legal profession or even a primary school of some Members, which we can't really understand at times what we're talking about, I'm afraid, but it's electoral legislation and they're all representatives of a certain spectrum. In more than 30 years of theatre work, I have been working with RTV Slovenia since the 1980s. It's an institution that gives practice to people who study for theatre, radio, film and television, the only one. So it was one of my first shows of Young Bridges on Radio Slovenia, it was for Slovenians in place and around the world. There I read, as a young actress, the writings of Slovenian children learning Slovenian from Austria to Australia and everyone loved me, there were no ideological divisions. I've done a lot of literary nails, radio games, on TV Slovenia, we've done a lot of TV shows, fun shows, then they've done theater shows, which I thought was a big loss when they stopped doing it. A lot of people couldn't go to the theatre, especially in the countryside, and they could see great artists from the Slovenian theatre from home. Non-institutional theatre performances were also made, TV dramas, films. I was doing Telerime on the children's and youth program, which was a screened poetry for children, because we know that many parents read the story, but they don't read the poetry, and we approached them. We synchronized a number of cartoons in Slovenian and, as quality as possible, we received many international awards for synchronisation. This commercial television will not work, it will not work well, because it will use non-professional people who will synchronize and the youngest staff, children who do not know how to read subtitles, it is very important what word, Slovenian, they hear for the first time. Then there was the Dreamland, the signature show, the weakest article you know more. From the whole spectrum, I judge people by what they've been watching and what they've become of me. Well, the actor is forced to do everything, depending on what the viewer chooses from it. So I don't dare judge what's right and you dare judge what's right. In the '80s, when I started working, you know, the national has survived the liberation, the transition from socialism to capitalism, and has adapted, somehow. Not everything was perfect, far from it, but where is the perfect world, except in dictatorship of course. It's the only perfect place there because you know who he obeys. Otherwise, you can never please everyone. And until 2004, when I was last working there, on the quiz, politics was absent from the nationals. When some of the customers wanted to profile themselves more and advertise through us, who already had a name, I asked the editor if I could run on one list, and he said, "Yes, you'll just have to decide. Either a quiz or a run for office." It is said that even children’s shows could not lead or perform on television if they were a member of one of the parties. This was all until the so-called “Grims Law” and today when I, or when I arrived there after 2004, said former colleagues: “Violet, you do not know how bad this has become.” The war from parliament moved to the nationalist, were left-wing editors, right-wing editors, left-wing programmes, right-wing programmes and, of course, no one will ever be satisfied, impossible to be, no. And so-called balance in the cultural and artistic sphere has nothing to do. You can't have left and right art. The picture's not left, right. The theatre show isn't left, right. And please once understand that national television has a historically important archive of the Republic of Slovenia, has a big band, one of the best, I will say in Europe, if not more widely, has a symphony orchestra, children's and youth program, a cultural and artistic program, a music program, a regional program because you said, "You would watch things from your neighborhood," amusing, I don't know, film, drama, sports, and you just keep talking about information because you don't talk so good about your president because, I don't know, there's no talk shows after an hour. Before that, my friend Duck said, yes, Venezuela, not North Korea. I guess that's where we're going. You know, and the call for no subscription, one of the Prime Minister's contributions should not have been allowed at all. It's like we opposition Members say, stop paying taxes while this government is in power, because we don't trust them because we don't like what they're doing and we don't like how they're sharing money. Does that seem normal to you, I ask you, to your right? I mean, it's true, there's a public media war going on, public RTV, which, as he pointed out, a employee's representative is not a public house, as some of you do, and it's absolutely also unacceptable for a member there to tell me that the social distress of people would be saved if they didn't pay 12,75 euros in television contributions. The poor country, which saves the household with a contribution of 12.75 euros, thus abandons those same people who can be separated and far from the center, far from cultural events, to their children watching quality synchronized world cartoons to watch a fun program to watch quality movies. So who fell on his head here? In fact, I suffer endlessly when I listen to these nebulos, I have been working with RTV Slovenia for more than 30 years, where I have been studying. And I really don't understand. You're talking about media freedom. Yeah, just on condition they're nice to me. What plurality this is. Also, okay, in the programming world, there are a lot of humanitarian organisations and civil society. It is essential that, through these humanitarian organisations and civil society organisations, there is no policy coming back in, as we should not have done if we were members of any of the parties, neither of these so-called civil society should be a member of the parties if we were to participate in public RTV administrations. And you know, these attacks on public RTV are, of course, yes now we're the strongest, the greatest, and let's make it work. Attacks on everything and everyone has become a new normality and this is what worries me that even Ana Ros, the world's greatest cooking master, is because she tweeted something that the Prime Minister didn't like. Where did we come from? I'm asking you. In order for Minister Restoration to make a statement, we did not go to the theater, we did. Is it clear that even in the theater we are working ork or so primitively fell to the bottom of civilization, that we do not understand that culture and art is of the utmost importance, that in the theater we also work for Sylvester, when everyone else is resting, Saturdays, Sundays, that it is necessary to have music, when you turn on the radio, that we need to have access to spiritual food, otherwise we have failed as humanity. And you know, you mentioned earlier that you need to deanize different tweets. The worst part is they have names and names, but nothing happens. You're saying that maybe some research journalists would write a book about what happened to us during the acquisition of equipment. What's that supposed to do? We have books, research journalists have written books: What can they do to us, Fraud Slovenia, Domoljuje written in with zeros. There are documents in there, there are no fictional stories, there are copies of contracts in there, and nothing happens. And you know, it's sad that they're humiliating different professions, yes, and that journalists are prostitutes, that is the public house RTV But, you know, RTV has been built over the decades into one of the most important institutions we have in Slovenia. Clearly, those who feel the strongest would want to seize it as a prey. But, you know, you won't be in power forever. What if the other option wins - then you'll jump into the air and talk about media plurality and change legislation. So let absolute politics withdraw from public RTV, let professions do their work. Just as we don't have anything to do with the clinical center, it's happened that doctors who had a different opinion than the official government were discredited. You know, RTV Slovenia is so important that if, unfortunately, you manage to break it down with your majority, it will never get on your feet again and then we will only feel that we have lost one of the basic building blocks of state-building, because it will not - there will be no music, there will be no art, there will be no practice for young people who are Yes, just wave, that's right! [[…]] There will be no practice for young people who are educated in cultural and artistic professions. And how do you imagine a state without state art, without state television, who will just be screaming and talking about the great leader of the hour and hour. I don't know, I don't think young people in this country are going to live because they don't even care who won World War II. They are interested in tomorrow, they are interested in living in a plural society, in a society where there will be some optimism and joy, where they will have some perspectives. And that is why I will fight to the end to keep at least a little sanity and respect for the profession, as well as here, in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Janja Slug has the floor to prepare Mr Aljaž Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Experiences with debates in the National Assembly every time, at least as part of the agenda item, the word RTV Slovenia appears, such as today's, that at the end of the day we all deal with what the program is, what we like, what we don't like, what we don't want, what we don't want. And I don't think this is the right debate and we're not the right people to discuss it. Our job is not to discuss what these contents are, what people like, what people don't like. Nor is it our job to discuss how much time someone or any political option spends on this radio. More specific facts, specific figures, should be looked at. Definitely a specific number is minus 3.2 million, as in 2019 RTV Slovenia has produced a minus, for the third year, it has certainly been. There are also other numbers that speak in favour of changing the program on RTV Slovenia, but it improves in the direction that it is actually noticeable that it is to notice an increase in quality, that people like it better. Comments have emerged that people have recently been more monitoring this program, that they are quality films, that they are quality documentaries. This is also one part of the story, and the black side from which I come could also tell a lot about the RTV Slovenia programme. Of course, we will not allow this because in the SMC we repeatedly advocate that the media must be independent, that they must be autonomous. Of course, public television, for which we all contribute this RTV contribution, must primarily serve to inform civil society, and this must work both with the programme and with some broad accessibility to the set of content by allowing public access to all programmes, to all content, in order to provide new technologies to follow developments in this area and so on. But as we say, today's the day to change the law. As I have pointed out, the objective is, of course, true and we support it in the SMC. Moreover, I personally believe that in fact all members of the Programme and Supervisory Board should be appointed elsewhere. As has already been said today, the National Assembly has certain powers of appointment in such and different compositions that I do not think I should have to deal with. I'm talking about judges, and I'm talking about a lot of things. We are not experts in these areas, we are politicians here, dealing with political content. And to judge who is suitable for a judge, who is suitable for this or he position is a little absurd for my notions. That is why I support the intention of withdrawing RTV Slovenia's policy. I think that's good. I think it's for the benefit of both the house and civil society. It is certainly a matter of affirming to the applicant that we are somehow all prisoners of the famous law on RTV Slovenia, because we must adhere to this law and also appoint representatives of this or those to the programme council or to the supervisory council under the current law. It is absolutely incorrect, however, on the part of the proposer, that this is evident only to the current coalition. In fact, every time a coalition is a prisoner of this law, not just the current one. And each time a coalition is bound by this law, and every time a coalition, including the one you were in alone, appoints representatives. The impression that the current coalition has a majority, each has one. You have a member, too. Let me tell you, colleague Lydia, because I listened very carefully to you. And if we go to the magnetogram, it was extremely incorrect on your part. In fact, you also have your own member, who was appointed at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission on 5 April 2019, the proposed Parliamentary Group List Marjan Šarca, this is in the Programme Council. You also have a member of the supervisory board. Which is nothing wrong with not being mistaken and not being misunderstood, not by any chance. As I say, the law lays down the procedure for appointment and we are all obliged to abide by this procedure. But to tell someone that he was holding on to it and telling himself that he had to, but it's not right. As we say, in the SMC, we want to see a change in the appointment of both programme and supervisors. In our view, of course, it must reflect the sphere that the medium is primarily intended for. This is civil society. But to reflect this civil society, we are confident that this cannot be done by the law of the Member. Not ours, not yours, not any parliamentary law, but that it is necessary to take a broader approach by including the profession, with some broader public debate and with some broader consensus who and how, of course, will be represented in this reflection of civil society in the membership of the programming world. I'm not going to talk about what's been exposed a few times already today, whether you've chosen poorly or you haven't chosen poorly. No, no, no. Because it's hard to characterize this recruit as good or bad. I don't think he's good or bad. But I wonder if, as a reaction to some of the things that have happened and have already been explained today, then let's make one such set, or this set reflects the actual state and that, I don't think. I think not, I think that we should think more broadly about the need to include, as I said, the expertise and just to check whether and how organisations will be represented, but also, perhaps it is a little problematic, how these organisations from among themselves, then, appoint or propose, this representative of their own. As has already been pointed out today, these two members, appointed by the President of the Republic, may also have little to say about whether this is the right way or not. Which two, why these two, why the President of the Republic? And so on. And as it is said, even these five members appointed by the National Assembly do not, in my opinion, even need to be appointed by the National Assembly. But okay, like I said, I think that we should have a broader debate about this and devote enough time, come to some consensus, listen to those who are written here, listen to those who may not be here, but there are quite a few, and then make one such picture that, as I said, will properly reflect the actual situation. But what enabled SMC to think when we read these few articles, this change, is what I have already said in our position – we believe that it is not only the software council that needs to be redesigned, or the method of appointing programme councilors, but also the supervisory board. In view of the situation on RTV Slovenia, it is necessary to consider the status of this house, this public institution, because we believe that this organisational form may not be suitable for the purposes or makes it difficult for RTV itself to function. As I mentioned earlier, the status of journalists themselves, as public servants, where, in fact, they are in some dependent relationship and so on, there are still many things that need to be changed, but, as it is said, these changes that are necessary must be professionally justified, they must be rethought and then they must be those who do not push this house into a worse situation than they currently are. And, also, it has been problematic, one attempt to replace two supervisors before the end of the mandate, and here I agree, SMC has of course supported that the opinion of the ZPS has been obtained and it has also followed fully the opinion of the ZPS, but what is being done with this proposal now? Exactly what has been said about this attempt to replace the two members of the Supervisory Board is being done. Exactly. It reaches out to the programming board, which has been appointed for a certain period, with a certain mandate, and simply disappears, and here I have a problem, I have it. The provision states that the term of office of the members of the Programme Council shall expire on the date of the entry into force of this Act. [[Incomprehensible]] Just like that, and here I would also like to hear about this article, which is the first paragraph of Article 4, says the Legislative and Legal Service. I find this article controversial. I know what the purpose is, I know what the goals are, I know what you want to achieve, and here we are certainly united. Here, there, we share these views, but, to erase, the members of the programming board, as many as 29 of today's to-morrow, I find it problematic and legally controversial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, I have to respond to some of the things that Janja the Servant said. As far as a member of the programming board coming from LMŠ is concerned, it was indeed appointed, but was appointed solely because someone has resigned from the programming board and was appointed from the political client quota. That's the first time. But as for what you are saying about this new proposal, which obviously already exists in the draft, but we have not seen it in the opposition - you obviously already know it - I hope that exactly what you are saying so far, you have already agreed with the coalition partners, and now you will invite both the professional public and us in the opposition to reconsider and then expect you to accept some of the proposals that we will make. Not like in the crown of law, when you haven't accepted one or one of the 270 amendments because the date was carried out. I would like to invite you to support the first reading today, and we can do all these things until the second reading, and we have no problem with this in the List of Marjan Šarc. But I'm afraid that this modernisation of the RTV law you're talking about will not be the most coordinated possible I'm going to be disturbed by you, but I'm afraid that your wishes will not come true, that the biggest government party will prepare it itself, will only get to know you or not, which is just a practice, and that you will not be the creators, co-creators, but you will be created, but you may be wrong to tell me that everything you're saying you should be doing now in coalition with this new proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The replica of Janja the Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you very much. My colleague Lydia is clear to me, all the members who are appointed to the programming board are appointed or because someone has expired their mandate or because someone has resigned, always, and this member of yours is no different from everyone else. The only problem is to present the matter in a way that someone else has usurped this programming world, but you have only followed the law, only that is the problem, we all follow the law in appointing these members, all of you. That's another thing. I don't know where we got along that way or we didn't get along, but I haven't even mentioned a draft of a law in my debate, I haven't. Now to interpret my debate as if you just said a draft that obviously already exists. I don't know anything about this draft, I know as much as you do as the minister himself said. I haven't seen this draft, I don't know whether it's coming or it's not just what I just heard here and I haven't talked about it at all. So now to talk to me about the draft, I didn't mention it that way, I don't know him. When we do, we talk about whether you or we want to be co-creators. We at SMC want to be co-creators and creators of the profession, not us. We don't even want to. What I was talking about is that there would be a public debate, that the profession would cooperate, that all the stakeholders involved would say their own, and that the draft would be based on such a debate not to be discussed in our parliamentary group, or yours, or by any chance. It would be best if we didn't cooperate at all in writing this draft, but that we would do it exclusively in the profession.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič has the word, after which she will receive the word of Tina Heferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Yeah, maybe I'll start where my fellow Servant ended up. I agree with the fact that there should be no decision-making in the National Assembly on the decision-making of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. The fact is, since this law was drafted by Mr Grims this way and every time a coalition has captured it, the fact is that the government of Marjana Sharca has not had a majority in Parliament, as the fellow Servant said, that each coalition has a majority. In our case, it wasn't either. Now the composition of this world, which we are somehow changing, is from a number of members. We need to separate what colleague Lydia has already said, what is said on the political party proposal, which is a few suggestions for viewers and listeners. And in these cases, we should follow some moral and ethical issues, and some parties are following them, and others are not. And, logically, then, the National Assembly, where political parties are called people who are close to a political party, I do not understand that where it is proposed by viewers and listeners, there are different people applying and there is no chosen person who works 30, 40 years in journalism, while a chosen person who has run for office in a political party and who publicly calls for no payment of RTV subscription. However, I think that it is clear to anyone who thinks for three seconds that this is not a representative of the audience, but a representative of a political organisation who will also follow its instructions when there are some votes. And, yes, the fact is that this is not a systemic law, that even what we have proposed as LMŠ candidates is not ideal, so today we have our first reading. And that is why it is so much less understandable to me why a fellow Servant would not support this law if she spoke publicly that it was for politics to withdraw. And also with regard to what she said, which organisations we have proposed that perhaps transitional provisions are not what they should be - yes, we can amend the law and in the second reading we can vote on the public presentation of opinions and once again invite all organisations to this Chamber to express their opinions, and we are trying to make the law even better than we are proposing in the Marjan Sarca Letter. For this we do not need any agreement, not in terms of Parliament or at the level of the presidents of parliamentary parties, but we can sit quietly and actually improve this law. So much for a start. Now we should ask ourselves in advance, not only what RTV Slovenia is, but what are the media. The media are some kind of communication tool, we have different, from newspapers, radios, televisions, not least the Internet, from which today comes the most media that have actually "eat" newspapers or forms of media, such as in the past, more accessible and also somewhat easier to read. The fact is that Radiotelevision Slovenia is a public medium, not a state medium, and even less is not a government medium, although many want it. The problem is that many people do not even know how large the structure is Radiotelevision Slovenia. I thank my colleague from Left Violeta Tomić, who was part of this and also described in detail what this medium is actually doing. We know that we have three television programs, we have regional centers, we have radios and much more. And the truth is, it's not free. This amount we are paying, 12,75 euros, for some means more, for some less, depending on how much revenue someone has. I think it's very small, as far as we get on the other side. We need to be aware that there is no public television or commercial television. And if commercial television can afford some reality shows, where companies will advertise a lot during commercials, it has public television or it has, for example, a very nice show for me, and I doubt that during the show they'll have a curious point - I don't know how long it's been, 45 minutes - they'll have five commercials in between that they'll advertise that they'll be able to do a plus. So we need to be aware that there is some education, something is standard, and there is something that people like to watch and what makes more profit. And even the viewership of one shows, if you look at it -- I don't know, I'm talking about half a million people, but one broadcasts five thousand people, doesn't mean that the one who looks at half a million people will contribute more to some people, because some final league of champions is watching, I don't know, 3 billion people, and if I say so, even if no one looks at you, no one would live any worse, or be better educated. So just talking about some numbers here, it's kind of wrong. We must also go back a little bit to what Radiotelevision Slovenia meant for Slovenia alone. It has already been mentioned that she played a key role or very important role during her independence alone. We can ask ourselves how those days would have been during the self-sustaining war if we had not had such quality and regular reporting in fact to all homes in Slovenia. Then we have on the radio a wealth that I don't know how much money has already been provided to the poor, including various artists, athletes, and if everything was as bad as you are saying, I doubt that such eminent experts from athletes, musicians who reach the highest points in their field would actually decide to participate in certain matters. And when you attack the house, you attack all the people who work with them. And yes, the fact is that there could be a lot of different things, but now you're looking from your point of view, whether you like it or not, and then now it's bad or not, it's funny, if I may say so. And when you go into politics, it's the fact that the media is controlling you and reporting on the subject. Yeah, it's a lot of times unreal. There's been a lot of writing about me, too, but it wasn't true, but you have multiple levers to respond to and call, but you're measuring them through Twitter accounts and dropping them on a level that doesn't affect your function, and it's actually very sad. Today, Venezuela, including North Korea, has already been mentioned. When I listen, I understand from your mouth that we might want such a public television, but if Slovenia competed at the World Cup in football, Brazil would beat 5 to 0 to report that Slovenia won, I don't know, 3-0, the next ten years as in one of the countries mentioned. And even now, casually speaking, it has minus 3 million houses, how it could all come to zero or that television should even make a profit, is also a little funny, because we know that the costs have increased, not least the ZUJF, which you, the respected SDS, have accepted, began to relax, thank God, increased costs have been increased, even prefects have started to work regularly, and for my sake, TV can have an additional 3 million minus if we work with it in some regular employment. And it is said that there are still some things here and that just now some Member is saying that the Kadunka should be replaced, but if it is really a bit sad, because there are some authorities that are doing this and then also on the basis of some paperwork, some of the information obtained is decided, and that is why it is so important that there are people sitting there who understand this, but not someone who is politically set up, because if today's MP says they should change it, they should hear it, or they will probably call the person who is set up from this political party and will then change it because his client is saying so and I think that no one wants it. But why is all this happening? I'm gonna, my thesis. I'm gonna go a little wider. You can introduce dictatorship in two ways. You can bring her in with the army, but you can bring her in through the media. It's like you destroy the media and somehow you don't get into dictatorship with some kind of military aggression. Many times it is said that Orban is a dictator, that Orban is a dictator. Some say he's a dictator, others say he's not a dictator. The fact is, he's not a dictator to rule there, I don't know, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u109	My friend, the RTV programming world is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u110	Yeah, I'll get on the programming world. Let me have ten words. The fact is, he has been elected in Parliament to have a two-thirds majority, but I have to ask myself why he came to this two-thirds majority. Because in those countries where this is happening, there are no more relevant media that would lead to real information to the people. And so does the biggest government party. When MEP Grims, by the way, I don't know how among all the experts you probably have in your client, the very person who claims that there is no global warming, wrote this law, was also part of this law being the introduction of Slovenia 3. Because then you thought that if people were looking at Slovenia 3 that your election base would increase. Now people are still at home watching, thinking and somehow seeing this, no, so you had to go a step further and set up Nova24TV, not because you still haven't managed to do what some other countries have done, you went to phase three, it's a denial and insult of all the media so that you don't actually report objectively anymore. And so, yes, the fact is, when Radiotelevision Slovenia falls, when people no longer hear information that is true, they will, of course, believe, live in a kingdom and also most likely trust people who lie to them. I am very pleased with Radiotelevision Slovenia myself, I am not saying that, I don't know, maybe more than half the programs I don't watch, they are not interesting to me, but it is also very much in my taste, and in fact I don't have any problems paying for it, but I agree that politics should once and for all withdraw from this public institution and that journalism and the people sent for it also carry out their jobs. But I also want more respect between politicians, the media and the judiciary, because just attacking them and insulting them does not actually involve certain functions, some educated people and not our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much. In particular, I would ask the discussers to be, and even those who have proposed the law, to adhere to the content of the law, but not to all other matters which have nothing to do with the law. A colleague named Tina Heferle has the word, and she gets the word Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We hear many times, no, even in this house, that RTV, or RTV contribution, should just stop, that there is no added value to this program, that no one is watching it and so on. Now, if all of this were true, if it were so, then RTV would not be the object of the ruling coalition's wish or then such a ruling set would not want to just ad-hoc to change, say, three members of the supervisory board before the end of their term of office. Obviously, RTV is an interesting area in which individual political parties are trying, not all of them, certainly not all, but perhaps even a unit, so RTV is an area of interest in which an individual political party tries to take control and power over public television. Now, it is obvious to the proposer that we were in power, not, but that we could then propose this legal change and that, now that we are in power with the second set, the answer is quite simple, we have heard it before today, but I repeat it, no, so far no other authority has shown such a great tendency after taking over and controlling public television, as this shows, and so today is the proposed amendment of legislation, which is why it is only today. Now, it is probably clear to everyone how to take over or gain control of RTV, through a programming board that appoints a director-general and then proposes to appoint a director of radio and television. Now the attempt to replace supervisors by the ruling entity, as I have already mentioned, is not as surprising as it is now, but such a proposal was illegal, even as our legislative and legal service warned, when the attempt of the coalition was to replace supervisors, despite the fact that their mandate had not yet expired and that there were no other legal conditions for exchange, it was then considered illegal and unconstitutional. And these are precisely the actions, not directly pointing to the fact that the ruling party cannot avoid the temptation to vote all that it wants, not because it has this majority in Parliament, and therefore in the LMŠ we feel that we need a change that will limit such abuses, it will probably not eliminate them completely, because it depends on the ethics and legality of the conduct of each time, but not so much or not entirely on the legal provisions. And here, when I mentioned this failed exchange attempt, is it not, and this is not the procedure that Mr Horvat mentioned earlier in his discussion, when he mentioned that February, where the procedure was concerned, the regular procedure and the preparation of the call. In this case of yours, it was an illegal attempt to change supervisors, which is something else entirely. Finally, something that I think is also very important On the one hand, from the President of the Government we can read tweets that are very critical, to public television, even underestimated and contemptible, to RTV, to individual journalists or, for example, we have witnessed writing addressed to the Council of Europe, which is even a biased and politically motivated television, and on the other hand, we have a clear tendency to submit to the public service, namely RTV. [[…]] Now, apparently, the government wants to turn left-directed RTV into a service that will be more favourable to current policy. We have heard something similar in today's debate of one of the SDS Members. In fact, it is true that RTV is a public medium and the Republic of Slovenia is its founder, but this does not mean that RTV is a state medium. This is an essential difference when we talk about institutional autonomy and editorial independence, which RTV should certainly have and policy should not interfere with the functioning of such a public service. Now, already in the position of the NSI Group, I listened to them very carefully before, they said that RTV often unobjectively reports. Now, such political interference, right, such a comment, first of all, a comment by the journalism policy that it is unobjective, which means direct political interference with journalistic freedom. I don't know if politicians comment, then what's different than trying to at least indirectly influence the media? Like this, let's say very loud tweets. In short, politics in RTV doesn't belong. I think that everyone here should agree, and if you really want politics to withdraw from public television, which we propose in our proposal, but if it contains our proposal for an article that is controversial, which we can still correct in the legislative process, then we can wait for another reading, where we will also get the opinion of the SPS, just as colleagues from SMC have pointed out, and that means that we can complete, properly complete, this proposal. So, dear colleagues of the SMC, in order for this to happen, you have to put this bill or proposal of the novel through, in a second reading. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mojca Škrnjar has the word and will be discussed by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Today we are discussing the body that is shaping the policy of Radiotelevision Slovenia. I experience this policy with mixed feelings. As a child, at the end of elementary school, I began to read the first page of work, not just the last time there were fun things, followed my father’s warning: Leave it, it’s politics. But Sam always continued to read the first and second pages in detail. Of course I followed him, and I disobeyed him. I wondered why on the first page a theme with a striking title appeared many times, and then it kept repeating itself day after day, and one day it magically faded. After my father finally came to terms with my interests, he told me that it was manipulation, hiding more important things. Unfortunately, today I experience public RTV all too often like manipulation, like a distorted information system. Let this be a concerted and hickish rhythm of the target or an unscrupulous term of witnesses. Even more sincerely, it is a message from the face of the head of the information show, who is clearly reluctant to accept the answers of the Prime Minister of the Government, who has successfully completed the epidemic. Perhaps even for Levi, the interesting Zigmund Baumann reception of strangers or foreigners in the work says: “If it were possible to project cognitive space on a map of the city, country or modern world as a whole, it would take the form of an archipelago and not a circle or some other densely concluded figure. For the people of the modern world, the social world is divided across the vast sea without meaning in the form of many larger or smaller stains of behavior, and the importance and importance of the desert. Most daily tasks are spent traveling between semi-empty spaces with physical movement from one island to another. The islands don't contact each other or we can't replace them. Each one of them hides a different behavior, meaning, importance. In order to preserve the identity of each of them, certain measures must be taken, the coast must be fenced, the seacourses must be blocked. In other words, keep strangers in their place." Although paragraph and work are intended for other foreigners, it is easy to identify themselves among foreigners when a solid shore is built in the social world represented by public information, which prevents a second opinion. As if in terms of constructing reality, I would like to design a public information service an archipelago of the only truths. The truths of premodernised society, where one elite is, one party that sets out the mental parameters, is declared to be the only and ours and indispensable with many plans to strengthen this archipelago even more, which, of course, requires additional resources, additional employees besides 2 000 200 employees. Citizens and citizens who feel at some news shows, debates and comments RTV Slovenia as foreigners in their own country often ask me when we will stop the RTV contribution and call for no payment. I can fully understand their distance and their feelings, because for the above reasons alone, with the problem, I am paying a contribution with great difficulty. Of course why. I understand even more people with low incomes, many pensioners, who also find these costs difficult to afford. For many of them, this represents one of the rare windows in the world. For this reason, it would be fair to arrange for information and debate shows, as well as to arrange for them to be fair and modern. RTV Slovenia must break the cord with a pre-modern, subjective way of working, the program should be designed to satisfy different views, including those of us who today feel like foreigners. Therefore, the Programme Council must be composed to care for all citizens and citizens who have different views, beliefs, world views. Perseverance and curiosity, and the joy of working with people, often led me through the leading cities on my career. At the end of my single job, I always thanked my colleagues and my colleagues with my words. Thank you to all those who have supported me even more, and to those who have hindered me from you, I have learned the most. Therefore, I believe that if we already have public RTV, which should first inform the public and develop a vocabulary, that it should report correctly, where the same amount of time is devoted to reporting and commenting on the coalition's actions and the opposition's reactions correctly, where the difference between information and commenting is clearly established. At the same time, I expect a good, cultural and educational programme with broadcasts that do not find a place on commercial television, which either have no money to prepare such shows or their cultural range is too low for that. I cannot deny certain quality of the work of the Radio TV programme of Slovenia. But I can't accept the idea that everything is fine in this institution. My opinion is shared by many citizens and citizens, not only those who have been bullied by posters at programme council meetings with labels and threats, but by all those who finally want normality in Slovenia and the end of manipulation and opinions. The composition of the Programme Council is crucial to achieving an impartial, professional institution that will strengthen intellectual potential, vocabulary, patriotism and the ability to critically judge listeners, viewers, audiences and viewers. Let me quote John Donna: “No man is an island, we are all part of the continent.” [[Incomprehensible]] We're part of the continent, but we're different. Politicians are messengers of this diversity. We need to discuss it and coordinate. In the debates today, I have also heard allegations of politicisation and of a policy that is not supposed to be involved here and there. I think politics is an honorable business, so I think pre-judging the work of politicians and politicians is low. That means we don't appreciate our electorate or our electorate. What makes civil society better than politics? We have gained the confidence of citizens and citizens. They must make us feel appreciated. How colleagues and colleagues can sit in parliamentary benches and deny their own origin and their own work. You're politicians and at the same time you despise yourself. I do not know why you have such a view on the proposals and those who support this proposal. You have every right to despise yourself if you want to. I just appreciate the voters I represent. As far as civil society is concerned, honesty and journalists are also a very diverse field. Here I also have to mention a pack of 571 people who were called journalists and sent a bunch of lies abroad before the presidency in 2008. We're talking about journalistic fortune when we're talking about the press fortune that you're so supportive of from the Left. Journalism is the kind of meeting that, among other things, supported publishing capital and came forward at a time when the euro of 24 articles was introduced to abolish working volumes in defense of publishing capital compared to 7 articles on the current topic of the introduction of the euro. This is where we represent the electorate and the electorate. As representatives of the State, we also appoint representatives of the RTV programming spheres, which is a public institution and this is fully qualified, as it was established by the State. The government, which is the founder of secondary schools, appoints its representatives to the world of institutions, appoints representatives to the world of drama, theatres, other theatres, philharmonics, because it is the founder. And we are politicians who must work with honor and responsibility. I believe that the Government will be able to design the legal design of the programming board in a way that will work for the benefit of a quality programme, a balanced programme and will be acceptable at least for all citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli has the word, and after him he will discuss the Victory of the Elinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I think already in our position of the party SAB we are somehow heading in the direction our client looks at, what our vision is, what our view of this amendment of this law is. [[Incomprehensible]] You know, RTV Slovenia is the only public non-profit, if you say so, organization in Slovenia and so it must remain. [[Incomprehensible]] He has to stay. Especially public and, above all, non-profit, because it is the interest of our country, of all of us. This is television, which is important because of the cultural importance, social, national, and I think it is also right. What's in front of us now? Now I'm gonna, I'm gonna be a little worried, I'm really a little worried about what's going on on on this RTV right now. All over each other, anger, accusations, inappropriate communication, if you say so and what comes out. What are the desires of changing the system, which I think is quite good. If I lose one minute. To the committee that we had at the presentation of the Supervisory Board, what we heard there, what came out of the mouth of certain parties, the criticism itself because of three and a half million or I don't know how much of a minus, the expenditure on revenue I mean, so if we say professionally, the higher expenditure on revenue, and at the end of the day, because I couldn't listen to all these criticisms, these huge losses, this is something incredible, some loss that we're going to spend virtually RTV every moment, I've given the task to bring me to a quick balance sheet, a statement of business success, I think the only Member read the whole, I mean, and what happened here from RTV, if we didn't raise wages for those two classes, the institution would have a million and a half profit, plus. [[Incomprehensible]] I'm talking about these terms that people understand us. And this, this manka, this little difference, this can be very easy with the right actions and measures, internal ones, to get completely into what the institution has to be to show a positive zero in the end and that's why they are institutions. Otherwise, we'd be companies. What about this proposal, what about this proposal? This reduction of members, we also agree, because there is no problem lowering members, good. There are a little too many members everywhere, because then it affects one way or another or too much chaos is going on inside, which is now what I find controversial here, those 5 customers. [[…]] Those five customers who would get their own member inside. I am very skeptical about this because it is absolutely discriminatory to the other parties who are in Parliament. And because we are talking here, at this point from one public RTV, from one public institution, which perhaps if it is, which I also agree that it would be better not to have politics along, but I will say this then, at this point, if the policy is, why should there be 5 parties representing the interests of the National Assembly and the Republic of Slovenia, because we are practically representing an entire nation, proportionally every so many people. Thus, proportionally, so many people would not be represented in a public institution because only five privileged parties would have their own representative in the programming world. Is that fair? No, that's totally discriminatory to the others. And if I said two more words about this, at this point we could list, there would be SDS, LMŠ, SD, Levico and SMC. We are all nothing, but we are all one third of Parliament. So, you know, proposing this kind of solution, it's wrong, it's not fair, it's not fair to the others. But if you say, by chance, that every party coming to Parliament will have its own representative, one of its own representatives, that would not be right either, would it? When one says I have 25%, you have 5.5, and we'll have every single vote - every single vote, that's fair, the representation would be in it. How much, in some way, can we talk about this? But this needs to be understood why it has to have five clients of its representative and the rest of it nothing - I know, but it's not right. And that's not right. Let's go to phase two. Let's just say no, I'll give you one more case, president, let me just say that. [[…]] Look, we have five clients, and at this point, when it's fashion to skip different Members from one party to another, the transition was exactly when one member went one way or another, from one party to another. And then what would be replaced in the middle, you're my client, you're a member, wait, watch out now, that member has gone to my client because he's crossed because he doesn't think the ideology of law or the system of work in Parliament is what suits him. And then we have to replace it in half, and then we have to replace it in the third season with a new member. I mean, where are we going with a system like this? That's not how it works. It just doesn't work that way anymore. Then comes the stage where they're supposed to be NGOs, for example, to allow NGOs. Oh, you think about what would happen here! Who are these NGOs, do you know how many there are? Ma, how many are there? What would they do here? In what way would they represent the reality of the people’s interest, since one is more intelligent than the other? For them. One fights like the other. And now these NGOs are being paid by the state, aren't they? All these NGOs are paid by the state, which is also right, and I agree that they exist because they must also be doing some proportion between what is happening. But what would happen if it wasn't for them? Then it would be chaos, I guarantee you, look. That would have been a really, really, really problem. Why don't we make a proposal that the system of units of interest be joined together, by the authorities concerned, just as the Council of State has. Who comes to the State Council because it's exactly who can come in and what they represent in the State Council, who they represent. There's a way. There's a way. Ma, I can make suggestions because I probably see a little bit wider than some others, I don't know, I ask. Culturers, how many times have we talked about culturers? I understand them, 100%, I know exactly, and God forbid we have them, because without culture, the country wouldn't exist either. It is now intended to place culturers in such critical places as if the culturer had not been defined. Ma, there's not one culturer I wouldn't know without being defined, I guarantee you. He's not here! There is no culture that is not defined, 100%. I don't speak for what, I don't care what for, but it is. It wouldn't be right again, and that wouldn't be right. I know it's hard, I open up a bunch of questions like that and stuff, but that's an argument that's very important, you know. The public RTV we pay, honestly, we pay the subscription. I'm really afraid to get to the table, I mean, a new marriage. At this point, I'm afraid to get it on the table because I know and I'm sure it's 50% what's waiting for me. And given that I am on the Committee on Culture, I will also have to analyze the whole of it "zero" and I will do it and then we will start doing, no, "Cache" up, what's not and where it's going. Every law is good if it's for people, for the country, but not for individual, but not for client, not for definition, only for one place, because I think that's exactly what we're going to get on the table, so there's going to be an opportunity, a possibility. That it will affect even more than what can be done now. And now it's not, me, me, I think, no, it doesn't have that much effect. Now I've been listening to a letter that the lady has read here with me from the SDS, no. At one point, at one point, she also referred to us who feel alien today on television. And I think, what is it possible for a person to write something like this: “Even us who feel like strangers today.” How do you feel about strangers? Because you're sure of others that RTV is, I don't know, left-wing media, or what? Where does it say this, who said this is it? I am sure that at this point is a very honest medium, an extremely honest medium, which gives everyone the opportunity to honk up at the top of his ideology. [[Incomprehensible]] We're looking at the exact cases that I'm going to be, I'm not going to be talking to these people anymore, who know exactly what I'm talking about. Not to give a case that was yesterday, what we were, what you confirmed yesterday about Prešernikov, what it was, what it was, or what it was that was, I mean, what names were in there. Shame on Slovenia, certain names that were inside, shame! What were those names doing in there? And that was paritarian, and you really picked up such members that it's true that no one will have to say that it's one-way, no, one-way. Really, you've gathered such names inside, no, I'm not going to talk about names, because I never like to say names, but it's been a break from a break from democracy. And you knew it was going to be voted, but it went on. All right, we'll see, because we'll see what results come out. Not to mention other things coming out. So, I mean, this new law is absolutely interesting to us, we're going to study it, and we're going to see what it is, no, I'm not talking about political issues inside RTV, it's normal to have certain political issues. As you know, Minister Simoniti, listen to me, I was when I was chairman of the Supervisory Board in 2013 and 2014, but you know who was chairman of the Programme Council? Man, I'll tell you what it was, the man who was two days earlier, when we had the main session inside, was at one, he was the main speaker at a nationalist meeting. Chief Speaker, Chief. This was the President of the RTV Programme Board. Mr. Stullar, okay? So I say, because it was nothing, because it was in all the videos, because it's shown everywhere, no, with a big flag of SDS, with all the things that need to be, all the things it is, but it was legitimate, you now think it would be the other way around now to make a fair one here, no, Sabovec for example. Or, I don't know, other parties, I gave an example of my own because we're an honest customer. We consider ourselves an honest customer and a rational customer, not a destabilisation or, I don't know, a revolutionary, what is happening today. It's not us, I think it's clear, no. Think of it as one of the programming councils of the Left, for example, that the main speaker would be there in front, now with those bikers, the poor, no, and the President of the RTV Programme Board. What would you do? What the hell do you think you'd do? For a month, they'd be sounding like it's not, whatever's going on, whatever it is, who it is. When I was there, I just asked him, “What were you doing there?” “Yes, I was, because I am, my role was that.” Okay, yeah, okay, I said what. President of the Programme Board. Those who choose the CEO today, too. Because that's gonna have to be changed. What does the Programme Board have to choose the Executive Director? Because always, all over the world, all of the institutions, choose always the control councils, not the software. The programme board does not choose a director for television, not a director for radio, not a director for three orchestras, I don't know how many we have in RTV, which I'm satisfied with because they're very good. Not the CEO. Put this on the table, Minister, if you want to make a few changes in that matter. So, now, about this marriage and this thing here, we're going to see what is, what isn't. It's smart that something changes. You need to think about a different path here slowly, don't you think, it doesn't go that way. I agree with you, but what you're going to put for one thing on the table is really interesting. I hope, see, I hope I get it as soon as I can, because I see that it's going to be a lot, it's going to be strong, it's going to take a lot of digging in, in these things, because I already believe exactly what's about inside. Yeah, it can't be any different than what I'm thinking, can it? Democracy, 100% and so, in this we'll get on and see what's good about it, see, if there are good things and all that is, I don't think there's any problem here to confirm. We're cooperative, we've proven repeatedly that we're cooperative and we're in. [[Incomprehensible]] But not excess, not unilateral matters, democratic, truly democratic, and in that we will see then forward I'm done here, President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We are now talking about the present and the law that has been passed. Let us leave the future to the law that will be passed. The word "Victory" comes from the nobles and will be followed by the word "Jerac Korča". Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Well, before us we have another political law that does not actually have any content, but it is only the intention to try to disavive the actual functioning of RTV Slovenia and bring this action even more into the claws of the left, so-called left cohorts. If we take the wish that seems to be clearly vomiting out of this law, we see that it is in their interest, to proposers, only to take over the programming world in their own hands. They don't care, let's say Kadunc has 4 million minus because they've raised their wages, they don't care that there's about 2 thousand 500 people working there, which is about, almost twice as much as in England at the BBC, they don't care that we're paying a contribution to watching 20, 25 or 30 years now, or even more, old TV shows, that some of them, on foreign samples, have prepared shows that we're paying big money for. In short, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. The important thing is that the programming world needs to be subordinated to itself. What if we go a little bit in a row? For example, they say, ladies and gentlemen, who have proposed a law that one member should appoint NGOs in the public interest, is said to be in the field of sport. In Slovenia we have over 27,000 NGOs. Who's gonna pick one of these? Either way, these NGOs, except for exceptions, are only interested in money, profits, and then what are they going to do, fight with each other, who's going to sit in here? That's a lot of nonsense. Then one member is appointed the Association of Slovenian Writers and the Association of Dramatic Artists. [[Incomprehensible]] Yes, but what about the Society of Journalists of Slovenia, and what about the Association of Journalists and Journalists of Slovenia? Will they be in there too? Or what are we going here? What's funny is that inside it says that there must be one member, there must be an organization of deaf and deaf, and there must be one member of the blind and visually impaired. Those who are deaf or deaf can't hear the radio. Those who are blind and visually impaired cannot watch television. It is said that the purpose is only to destroy what is laid down, because, appropriate, now existing article in the law, is a hundred times better than this proposal they have prepared. [[…]] But it also has a previous marriage law, one mistake, which is repeated here, and it says that one member is appointed by the Italian National Community and one member is appointed by the Hungarian National Community. These are representatives of the interested communities who do not belong to the National Assembly, which are members of the State Council as an interest community. It is also written here, it can't be easy because even if we wanted something like this, then we could only require that there should be one representative on Hungarian public television, Slovenia, representative and Italy, on RAI, but there is one representative in both neighbouring countries, because those neighbouring countries are a country, and because of some left-wing orientations we are becoming more and more a local community, confused completely. Thank God, now the government is different, which is something for the state to hold on to, but not to sell into the hands of what I know everyone, including Soros, after certain connections. My friend, I don't understand what a nationalist event it was when someone spoke there. I think the one who says with pride that he's a Slovenian is nothing bad. That's good. Unfortunately, there aren't enough people who say they're Slovenian with pride. And as for nationalism, it is necessary to know that the nation means the country and that party, which is national, means that it is national. Some people don't understand this, but some people don't want to understand it, or it's not surprising how those who want to put one of the higher education teachers in this new programming world would understand how they would understand that they would call one of the Department of Journalism of the Faculty of Social Sciences. Please. Either way, the FDV determines what someone can say and what they can't say. Go take a look at those fumes over there from the FDV that determine what should be posted on Facebook and what should not be published. Please, this is a disgrace to Slovenia. And now the FCVs, who don't even know what sex they are, will decide what goes on television now and what doesn't go on TV. What they've presented, that's terrible, that's terrible. And be assured that the Slovenian National Party will never support such a law, which is shameful not only for all of us, is also shameful for those who are signatories to this law, because it is not clear whether a person has signed it or has signed it because those who have written it already knew why they want it and why they have to write it. And I think those who would write that would rather deal with another matter. We do have something cultural, like the Librarians Act, where they were against COBIS upgrading, etc. They don't care. They are interested in where they could operate politically and politically. In my view, acting to the detriment of the State and the citizens, and particularly to the detriment of the country. I think something like that we have here is, I mean, terrible. A lot needs to be changed, on TV, on RTV needs to be changed, first, the number of employees needs to be reduced, at least by half, if not more. It is necessary to engage those who receive insanely rich fees in order to repeat foreign shows, translate them into Slovenian and then pay us all over the world various annuities, so that, of course, these people get even Oscar for the best Slovenian shows. Well, please, please. It is necessary to do as they did in Greece, to stop RTV, to shoot and restart it in a month. No one in Slovenia would notice one month of non-action of RTV, as most of them watch other programs, which are much better. And what kind of interesting things a person can look at HBO, we have documentary shows there. In Ljubljana we once had excellent documentary shows in the former Yugoslavia, but that was that time. Now that some of the shows from that time are repeated shows that he does not know what to do, but now the gentlemen who were at home at the time of the corona are getting the same salary, and he will probably get the extras that were so worried about TV and sat on the couch and had a beer and had popcorn. I mean, for the record, what we have before us today is a shame. [[…]] Shame! And if you're not ashamed, I'm sorry, but you may be ashamed. We will never, never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever,
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Ms. Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Nobleman, honourable Member, is a handsome elderly gentleman. However, it would be nice if he could read the proposal at all before he makes a populist comment on it and that he should not impose something there in one day as far as the proposal is concerned. You can't even comment on that if you give yourself something. I will therefore read only what remains the same in the current law, which has been existing since 2005: 13 members remain the same, 5 members are appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from political parties, 2 Presidents of the Republic, one Hungarian National Community, one Italian National Community, Mr Jelinčič, one appointed by the SAZU, and three members are elected by RTV employees. Here is the news that at least one of these three members must be from the regional centre. As you know, we have one in Maribor and one in Cyprus. According to the new ten members, they would name professional organisations and civil society, which we have already mentioned several times today, two members would appoint professional organisations of journalists, respected Mr Jelinčič, and one deaf and deaf, blind and visually impaired, NGOs in public interest in the field of sport, the Department of Journalism, the Ombudsman, the Slovenian Writers' Society and the Association of Dramatic Artists, professional associations of music creators, professional associations in the field of film and audiovisual production. But as for yours, that they sat at home at the time of the crown, let only three things nanize you. First of all, at the time of the crown, RTV proved to be a great success. The press conferences that this government has started in the distance have made it possible for RTV. Secondly, they prepared a show for all those children, as you know, they were all at home, probably also yours, because they didn't go to school and they made a special show for them and they turned it around every day. And the third time, for graduates who also stayed at home, they were helped to prepare for an essay in Slovenian, which included Cankar’s work. Just so much for sitting at home during quarantine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u121	Thank you very much. He has the word of Jerz Korče, and he will discuss it with Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you very much for the words, the chairman and a very nice greeting to all! To get a little bit back on the actual subject, we're talking about two articles. Yes, several times it has been said, colleagues from the SMC have said, this is not a systemic matter, this is a partial matter, so we cannot support it, despite the fact that we agree on the objectives and the purpose behind these proposed changes. Of course, this matter is far from systemic and yes, of course it is partial, because in two articles we only regulate one small thing. And this is a trifle with which all politics, more or less, at a declaration level constantly declares that it is necessary that it is time in our country to withdraw the policy from where it does not belong. So, we are talking about this, for the first time, that we are reducing the number of members of the Programme Council - also this has been said by virtually all political parties repeatedly in public that the number of members should be minimised and the programme world made more operational. Which means, once again, for the first time, we are reducing the number of members, and secondly, we withdraw that the National Assembly appoints 21 members under the current legislation, after the proposed amendment, five of them would be appointed. That's what this is about. So much so that the public will be aware of what we are doing next time some people report in terms of how independence is to be ensured, the withdrawal of policy that the programming world is too large, too operational and so on. With this change, these two articles solve one small thing that this policy has already agreed on several times in the past. And once again, once again, two coalition parties, Desus and SMC, show that they publicly state one thing, and they press that button, which is a dictatorship, or what delicious couches are on the Hill. So much for that. Now we are going to what has also been exposed several times today and we are talking a lot about what content is on RTV. It is the fact that the State of the founder and the State as the founder must ensure institutional autonomy, editorial independence and adequate funding. These are three key tasks, including us as politicians or, above all, us as politicians, representing the people and being elected by the people in the elections. Everything else, what is the programme, what editorial policy is running, is the exclusive thing of an institution as such and not us, that we are telling politicians, which part we prefer and which part we like less. And let's be aware that RTV is not just a Target, RTV is not just a Reflection, it's not just a Witness, it's a lot of other things, it's a lot of things that we can't be shared as a society, because if anything, then the RTV program bypasses all social groups and shows the diversity of our country. You know, we're talking about having a People and Earth show, sometimes we had or is on Sundays a Farmer's Show. We've got Live for the children, we've got a good morning, accompanied by the elderly pensioners who are at home at the time. We have Kodo talking about consumption and showing some aspect. We have, finally, Ghost Horizons, we have a show in the garden, we have Roma themes, we have a show for the Roma, we have a show on the better, we have a very good show, we have a bite in science, we have an 8th day show, we have a car. We also have a parliamentary programme. In short, RTV is an institution that takes over various social groups. Do I like that you spend money on car broadcasting - maybe not because I don't care about cars. But this does not mean that I have the right to show as a politician my opinion that this broadcast does not fit on RTV and that it is a futile waste of money. And you focus on a very narrow segment of the information program implemented by RTV. We have a radio, Studio at 5 p.m., Literary nocturnal, Radio Ga Ga, Heating, Nebulose, super shows Checked out, giving young musicians who may not get this opportunity anywhere else. Let's look a little bit wider on the subject, well, and let's stop focusing on the very narrow segments that correspond to the SDS, that in their own way they charge RTV Slovenia, as it suits it. And, you know, one very important thing is for RTV contribution - for me RTV contribution is some contribution to solidarity. Finally, I have a grandmother who sees worse from day to day, and all three radio programs, or, say, Studio at 5 p.m., Intellecta, Advisory Service, Where your shoe stings, it represents contact with the world. To her, the fact that the Lake was recorded as a sound book, by Tade Golob, represents a contact with her so that she can read the book. Of course, these things cost, but this is also part of social solidarity. Everyone would like to live in a world where we don't have any position, not for electricity, not for water, not for RTV, but if we are ever able to see what kind of thing is wider and understand that this also contributes to providing for these, I will say smaller social groups of some content that other television stations will never cover because they are not profitable, and you are referring to a trimillion-dollar loss. Of course, "restricted" things got a little too busy, some costs went up. But this country, on the other hand, has not taken care of the appropriate level of funding while maintaining the legal obligations that we impose on RTV to meet them, precisely because they can cover all these content for diverse minorities, not least the church content. We're the legislator. If we want to squander the program and cut off some social groups, great, you have a majority, take it. I will strongly oppose this because I think it is right that we are solidarity with others because we never know when we are in this situation. As for the information programme, if anything, I want the media to oversee every time the authorities ask questions about whether they are in control, whether I like these questions or not, the media are asking us questions. We may find questions unpleasant, they may seem unnecessary to us at that time, but we need to let the media ask us what the public is interested in, to discover things, to set up a mirror for us, because when we start closing all these mirrors, or covering them with some piece of goods, then we end up in a system that our ancestors definitely didn't fight for. I understand that we currently have a Prime Minister who does not want criticism, who seems to him that RTV should act even by commending him daily, asking him no provocative question, talking to the SDS about not giving you media attention, while not giving your own statements to those same journalists because it is your way of communicating on Twitter. Journalists also cover all political parties by law, even by “time”, and if you want to, you have the opportunity to make a statement, if you do not give it, it is your decision, so it is not the RTV Slovenia journalists' fault. Now, the way in the SDS they represent the functioning of the media, we can see. We can see it on a completely practical and plastic case: open up the TV, I don't know which channel, which one of you has it, and you can watch it. This is how they imagine the media, and this is how they want to do public television, which is not state television, not coalition television, but public television. And when colleagues from SMC and Desus talk about this great system law, the government wrote in its opinion that it is in preparation and yes, I think it says that we can expect it in the autumn at this temple of democracy. I think and predict that a broader social consensus on this will not be reached because it is known who is the drafter of this law, even more, I think that SMC and DeSUS are somehow falsely thinking, or hope that some things will be involved and that we will get some kind of system law that will be good, but the time will show that unfortunately it will not be so, because, if so, we have public and other clarifications as to how a party who also heads the cultural ministry represents the media and also probably why it has taken over. No, because it would be a culture, not because it would solve the status of self-employed people in cultural areas, but because they understand or have such a principled position, and so they imagine development in advance, that those who control the media control the information, control the interpretation of this information, and in this way they can define their power and nothing else from behind. Once again, we are amending two articles, two simple articles and eliminating or minimizing the impact of policy in the programming world. If the intentions or statements of some are sincere, then today or tomorrow, at the vote, is the time to confirm this and to be able to sit together in a spirit of constructiveness and desire to further improve these two articles, colleague Lydia went to think that after all the Members who expressed this interest, she would take the time again, settle down, agree, further improve the matter, and in the second reading we get such a law that broad support will be provided and we may succeed in eliminating one party that will never support the changes that are going towards improving and democratising matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you very much. My colleague didn't interrupt you, but what the SDS imagines about the law will be said in the SDS. They don't need a copycat who's going to tell you some kind of untruth about these positions. Now we continue the debate. Joseph Lenart has the word, and only Bevk will discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Greetings to all present guests! Dear Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Radiotelevision Slovenia is a public institution of special cultural and national importance, so we know what its purpose is. The aim is to inform, educate and entertain. In their information work, they must stick to one red and this is the accuracy, impartiality, verification of facts, therefore, is based on the Regulation on Professional Standards, which already mentions in the title of professional criteria and principles of journalistic ethics in RTV Slovenia programmes. Among other things, it continues to be necessary to work with credibility, responsibility, public service, independence and justice. Now, of course, in politics, some people understand these things in their own way, but this is nothing that could not be done with good governance, good oversight, good programming worlds. The proposal made by today's Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Radio Television Act therefore proposes to reduce the number of members of the RTV Programme Council and to reduce the impact of the National Assembly on the proposal of programme councillors. With regard to the rest of what this institution is supposed to provide, I must say that the resources from the state budget and from the mandatory RTV contribution provide it with autonomy and autonomy at work. And now, with regard to the excessive influence of the National Assembly, I somehow cannot agree with the proposaler as a true colleague, Mr Dijak Mirnik, to give up the political influence that civil society should have more influence and so on. But given that this is a public institution and given that the matter is financed from the budget and the contribution by law, it is normal that the National Assembly also has some control, but I am not saying now that it should have an impact on editing, of course, not, but on the quality composition of the Programme Council and, of course, enough also on the political side and this should not be any difficult debate about the fact that this is something wrong. [[Incomprehensible]] However, in order to reduce the number of councillors of the programming world, I believe that this could make the work somewhat more current and that, therefore, faster decisions would increase the operationality of the Council itself, as the Minister has confirmed, no problem. So, somehow, as was said by the proposaler, this service should not be channelled into a coalition service. So he hints at us, and he also says that, of course, we should not help the programming world, and that we should not interfere, and that the coalition suggests so, and then that they do not need our help. So, the sentence is, let civil society decide for themselves, let it, it doesn't need your help. The point is that neither does it need your help, respected proponents. Now, if we were to go a little further to autonomy, then, and freedom to run RTV. I don't think this autonomy is missing at all, but I'm wondering what responsibility is. I will now touch on this debate, which was on the Committee on Culture and has already mentioned a colleague from the SAB, but I wonder if the annual report of the Supervisory Board is worse after business, I do not know what kind of supervisor was a colleague from the SAB if he, when he was, approved it, is said that from 2017 he loses 50% to 200%, already a greater loss every year. Then where's that going? And now if no one said anything about it, then it wouldn't be right. And now, if I recall that in 2019 we discussed the report of the Supervisory Board, of course, and the business for 2018, then with me that it was not okay, we agreed in the client of the LMŠ, in the SMC party, in the client of the SAB, everyone had what, I will say, sharp words to the effect that such guidance would not go forward. And now one more thing, not only does it work minus, but the director says that we just have three million minus, but we're even going to reach five million minus, we've even done a good job. However, that there were some, as I will say, extraordinary situations in their case, that they had to hire these people, we monitored all of this, but if someone said in 2019 when he was still in the government that optimisation was needed, now that he is in the opposition, he says, then it is two-faced for one Member. Today, it is no longer necessary to optimise nor systematise nor nor norm for employees who were newly employed 500 and that is no longer necessary and, of course, the opposition is not responsible for this, but, people and colleagues, this National Assembly answers that this will not go to anything. [[?]] . And then we also have to ask ourselves now what would we do with this reduction in the impact of the National Assembly on the programming board if we reduce it for these 6 people. I just believe that there's nothing we can do about it more precisely than after I said it would be possible to increase the operationality a little bit. This proposal itself, how would we now, by what key we would now name it, be established after a new one, if this law were to be adopted, and indeed, I will say, a little bit surprising, because here I see someone really touching, that the programming world should be better qualified, more viewed, to have a greater width. Yes, of course we should have a larger width, but look, there are sometimes people in here who don't have that kind of width and discuss things they don't have under the roof, but really nothing about the topics that are being discussed. So we must always strive for this software world to be professional enough and to somehow master its work, to help make the content good, but this moment, if we have a downturn of viewership all the time, we also have some negative business indicators that this is not a disaster, okay, with RTV 120 million, we could also manage our own, make sure that we don't have to raise contributions so that we don't have to put so much pressure on the budget if we do anything more on the market. So, now if I touch, why didn't you actually suggest it, this was already asked by colleague Divac Mirnik, a journalist, immediately the first day of the press conference. Why didn't you suggest this when you were in power? Yeah, why would you suggest that if this same TV was a great lift for you, of course not? Now that you're out of it, maybe that's the problem. So it's interesting how, somehow, I'll say, even more on the left-hand side are coming in, that this government wants to subjugate something, that wants to influence editing, that from one statement that was given more than not in a joke, then do, make some pump and then, yeah, now they're scared. But none of this is happening right now. RTV has freedom, it has autonomy, it also has Slovenia, I will say, it has a very good rating around media freedom and because of that, I think, the thing can be done even better than it is now, somehow, it might also, according to the Ministry's purposes, point out what was said that the Minister has actually said that changes in media legislation are also being prepared, including something about the RTV Act, and then, of course, I am more inclined to this latter to prepare it comprehensively, so, corrections, proposals from the Ministry, and then proposals from the profession and the public, and of course, a quality law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word, and he'll get the word Rudi Bear after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. I welcome the announcement by the Minister of Culture that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the intention of this law, that the number of saints will be reduced from the previous 29 to 23, and that the work in this case will be more operational. Of course, I will support the law, and the number of councilors of the RTV Programme Council would be further reduced. The reduction in the number of members increases rationality and slightly reduces the costs of the programme world, while maintaining sufficient plurality of the composition of the world itself. Let me say that I am, above all, a viewer of national television and a listener of national radio. I watch and listen almost exclusively to the news broadcasts of RTV Slovenia, very, very rarely Channel A, Pop TV or even Novo24TV. I think that despite all of this, on RTV Slovenia, information shows are even more objective. Compare the production of public RTV with the production of other private television and radio media houses, and you will see that they cannot compare me, not to the extent and not to the quality of the program. However, it is likely that public RTV Slovenia also has a large, large reserve, both in improving its programming content and in managing the institution itself and in increasing the productivity of employees who are not so few. Only one comment - with summer holidays, literally goes on vacation also national TV and we are sentenced to repeats and videos of the shows and programs already seen. Already a change on the summer TV scheme would be a big step forward and this would, in my opinion, be the easiest to do. But I would like to draw attention to one of the slides of national television. I'm talking about an interview with the husband of the Prime Minister. Following an interview by the President of the Government, followed by a discussion with the leaders of the opposition, I now expect the wife of the president of the biggest opposition party to arrive on this elite television deadline. Or maybe we could invite my mother or my father, who celebrated this year's 70th wedding anniversary or the father who celebrated May's 100th birthday. There's something interesting I'd like to tell you, but it's more of a joke than it really is. Public RTV Slovenia, in my opinion, is urgently needed, as we urgently need public health and public education. I will tell you just two cases, in the last 30 years, when national television and national radio have been absolutely indispensable and no private television can replace them. This is the role and importance played by TV Slovenia and Radio Slovenia, during the self-conquering war and during the Coronavirus epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The text is by Rudi Medved and will be discussed by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Minister of Respect! I'll say it again, even though we've heard it a few times today. RTV Slovenia is public broadcasting. Public, public, not state. I hope we all understand this together, or maybe we don't. From among the largest party representatives, we have heard today, with what criticisms at the expense of RTV Slovenia, that the expression of the leaders on TV is also not appropriate and not per year. That's just another point. There was also talk of manipulation, but one major manipulation was carried out by the President of the Slovenian National Party when he flew into the hall, he probably asked outside what we were discussing, and they told him that RTV Slovenia and he flew in and said there were 2 000 500 employees on RTV and fewer on the BBC. This is manipulation. The BBC employs 23,000 people. But so much about what manipulation really is, but with these criticisms at the expense of RTV Slovenia, which comes mainly from the largest party in the National Assembly, I would point out one pretty innocent thought, which illustrates the perception of RTV Slovenia. In fact, I recently noticed the thought, I think that one of the MPs, RTV doesn't praise the achievements of this government, I think it was literally the case. RTV does not praise the achievements of this government. For God's sake, RTV Slovenia is not there to praise politics, RTV Slovenia is not there to praise the government, it is not there to praise the opposition to praise any policy. RTV Slovenia is there to objectively show the facts of what this policy is doing. On this basis, citizens and citizens can judge whether they will praise or play this policy, because normally, one will be praised by one and then they will turn it into electoral votes, and that is in fact all the philosophy of attitude towards public RTV Slovenia. But it is true that attempts to involve politics in editorial policy or in what RTV Slovenia is doing, you know nothing new, otherwise nothing new. I have been employed for 24 years on RTV Slovenia, of which 12 years I have edited and this informative political programme, so I am the most exposed, of course, which is of course the most interesting policy and of course we have experienced various involvements, I call it inserting into editorial policy, but on all sides you know, on all sides, on the left, the right was not as important with which, because the policy did not agree on any issues or they did not like the content of the show, and they would have any other broadcast or come to the show, but if it would come, and I would not come, etc., etc. Of course, this was followed by a case that had been in force on RTV Slovenia for a long time, but these were empty chairs, because people, politicians, invented things, but I tell you, we, journalists and editors, knew how to deal with it. That's what we used to deal with. I'll only tell you one half anecdotes, even though it was real. When a politician called for directing - I was then an editor - and he wanted to talk to me, otherwise I didn't take the phone into my hands, but the director's secretary told me that she wasn't satisfied with how we asked a guest - or was she a guest, I don't even remember - how we asked this guest. Well, because I didn't respond, he called me again and he wanted to talk to me again, and then I told the director's secretary to tell him that if he calls again for the third time, we'll write him on top of his credit card as editor. He never called again. We used to deal with that. And I have to say that during all this time there were no extraordinary situations, we normally communicated with politics, left, right, any. And in all these years no one has ever spoken to me - but they could have been so dissatisfied or angry - no one has ever insulted me, nor left nor right. You know, RTV, just because it's not from anyone, it's from the public, citizens and citizens. But when we talk about inserting politics into editorial policy or any other policy on RTV Slovenia, you know, what's more dangerous - and this is what the proposed amendment to the RTV Act is talking about - but this permanent pressure is exactly the RTV Programme Council, the political pressure. I suppose we are not blind because if political parties propose - now I am talking about those members and members of the world who are outside this quota of five, which is already what the so-called representatives of civil society are proposing - and now we are talking about how highly professional, autonomous, I believe they are also highly professional and autonomous, but believe that they are following in many ways the policy of the parties they propose. However, we had or have also had such members of the RTV Council - when Mr Minister spoke about the high professional criteria for them - who freely admitted that RTV or television did not actually see that they did not actually monitor RTV programmes. On the other hand, no matter how far they may have cooperated, they would have seen how this program was coming, not only to watch it, but to decide on the format of the show, to stop the broadcasts, to re-set them, to decide who the interviewer should be, including who should interview him, and so on and so on. This is this high professionalism with maximum integrity, which is now also being implemented within the world of RTV. And, of course, such pressures have an urgent impact, I would say, on the one hand, because of the tendency also to self-censorship of the creators of the program. With the constant repetition of how to stop paying RTV contributions, including fear of losing a job, all of this certainly affects the quality of Radiotelevision programmes in Slovenia. And in recent times, of course, this institutionalized pressure with the emergence of social media has also developed an additional form, a permanent form of pressure, which is, of course, significantly more direct than ever in the past, a call of any policy that is not satisfied with the fact that we have invited someone to the show, and he would rather see someone else in it. This permanent pressure through social media, believe me, has had a significantly lower impact on the mood and quality of programs than perhaps ever in the past any intrusion, not to say pressure, has affected the creators of this program. We therefore propose this change. And the world view is not questionable and must not be questionable when it comes to membership in the RTV Slovenia programming world. Absolutely not. However, this political moment or advocacy of political party interests within the programme world is harmful. And that's why we're proposing these changes. I am, to finish, perhaps, because so much is said about objective reporting and so has been edited in this Chamber today much about it and assessed what objective reporting is. I will paraphrase the thought of legendary journalist Yuri Gustinčič when he once said about this relationship between politics and RTV Slovenia. When he said: “They will forgive you all things, for they will forgive you all things, only the objectivity, and the objectivity will not forgive you.”
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much. A replica of Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the distinguished predecessor used the word politics and that the policy was supposed to interfere with the editorial policy of RTV Slovenia, I feel like I was being addressed to my debate earlier. In fact, once again, we're elected by the people. RTV's there because of the people. We're just one of the people, that is, the representatives of these people who elected us. Whether something is objective or not, Mr Jurij Gustinčič will not judge his report. Because of whether he reported objectively or not, listeners and viewers will judge. We are politicians to realize the interests of the people who elected us. And if it's not public RTV, then I really don't know what it is. I don't see what politicians would have to do in POPTV or Akanal or anywhere else where private owners are. However, as elected representatives, I see that we also have a firm place in the programming world in one way or another, public RTV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Before I give the word to Jani Möderndorfer, I will read the last three submitted for discussion, namely Bojan Podkoršek, Robert Pavšič and Alenka Jeraj. Comrade Möderndorfer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Vice President. In the National Assembly, we had no more debates at the committees and plenary meetings on our public house RTV Slovenia, but it is true that every time a little differently or depending on what set we were talking about. Today we have a law which, of course, regulates the issue of representation or change of the programming world, which, of course, if we want to discuss this, is crucial that we understand that, in fact, because of the system, as set out in Grims' time in terms of the bill-maker that is still in force today, it has actually led us to the point that we have a situation that we can say that serious politics is involved in the functioning of public Radio Television, if we want to recognise it or not. In the meantime, there was a law under the then Minister Majdo Shirca, who, of course, had his final epilogue, very well known to everyone in this Chamber, I will not even repeat it, but the fact is that I remember the very face of Franco Yuri and of my colleagues Eva Irgle, where one faced a press conference, the other with their statements, examples of how much and what the law was actually trying to solve. He wanted to solve, in particular, the mistakes of the past, which we unfortunately have to deal with today, and this is the mistakes of Grims' law when he brought literal politics into the house. Now, of course, we can discuss this, but right or wrong, the public institution is, and I have already repeated this a hundred times, and I will repeat it again, according to the law on public institutions for all the same, but then we have little speciality in specific public institutions, but this institution has a kind of specificity, which is not organised at all as a traditional public institution, the supervisory board is discussing finance, cannot decide on leadership, it is decided by the programming world – I think, who understands it, is it not, or is accepting the logic of some political agreement, consensus, whatever we call it. What, among other things, did the law of that time bring to the scene of public television? Today, I have heard a few discussions, a debate about how or not a balanced television is. Look, me personally, I will never personally agree to someone force the press to balance. There can't be any balance, because that means something. This means that if a journalist, for example, hypothetically, a research journalist is looking for a problem in a case, and when it comes to some kind of disclosure either of an affair or anything else, then of course the leadership begins to think, ups, now it is necessary to balance, because now only one side is going to be attacked, let's give us a little bit of another, which, a little bit of force to find something else to balance. I understand that they are trying to balance between the elections, as far as the timing of the performance and so on is concerned, but also at that time it is extremely difficult. But in reality, there is no balance, look, every time the Prime Minister of the Government has an interview on TV, then the next day we experience a balanced opposition, which usually happens in much less time and so on. Why? Because this is simply impossible to balance because you cannot give every president of the opposition an equal time as the Prime Minister of the Government. This is why the debate and the debate on this is depressed, but it is true that journalists will have to be aware of this in the first place. Because some journalists speak out about balance, perhaps not as many journalists as editors, who are actually somehow watching over them and trying to defend them. The other thing that seems important to me in this debate is that I hear the obvious today when you had the government, and you might not have suggested it. Yes, now, I'll say so, because every government is trying to make certain changes. Either there's a final epilogue or not, that's another question. This is not the most often or often depends not only on ministers and ministries. We will see how far your minister will come with a bill and what reasons there will be when this law will not exist. Because I think he has absolutely no time to finish it. Because something else is going to happen before he even comes into the house with this marriage, the government, what's in the house, it's a long way from here. It is a fact that this does not mean that the opposition or Members, who have one of the two primary tasks in the National Assembly, is to discuss and decide and at the same time propose legislation. And if this is about minor changes, and in this case it is about minor changes, but now let every time the opposition introduces the law: “No, wait for the minister, the minister is preparing something, the government is preparing something!” you had time, please, but you don’t remember a few months ago what you were saying. Since you said you were proposing solutions, you prayed here and asked: "Please accept, give, let go at least through the first debate, the general debate, correct," and so on, I think, as if you have replaced the chip, "white". But this is a practice that we keep looking at and is constant, and the fact is that the media law in the previous government has already been very far prepared. The media law, which usually happens after, of course, when you settle this issue, follows the following law, the Law on RTV. And we all know it's time for this law to be rectified. Correct, in particular, to regulate certain parameters. Now, as for RTV organization, meaning and so on, you know, I have to say, I have been a critic for a lot of things at RTV, including leadership in the sense that certain steps have not been taken. But that still doesn't mean I'm for decommissioning RTV. This still does not mean that I am for politics to be parked even better in a public institution, far from it. What is media autonomy, not especially RTV, right? Now all those who have said that the subscription is not appropriate and all those who simply talk about the free economic initiative and compare with other commercial televisions, I must warn you, no, one of the oldest shows on national television, you want or you don't want to, is to listen to silence. And I'm sure that first of all, these broadcasts, which are targeted at a very narrow population of people, will turn out to be a very small population of people first to be unprofitable, irrational. Of course, you are only interested in the information programme and many in politics think that the information programme is the only and saving story, in fact, the media, everything that is heard and politics likes to watch, only reports, how many times has been mentioned, but if it has been mentioned well or poorly. The one who thinks that the journalist is his friend or that he has to be his co-conspirator has serious problems and serious problems. And whoever thinks the reporter is gonna praise him on the news tonight is having a hell of a mess about the media. Those who think that the journalist will only report in an informative manner, forgive me, the third programme was created on the initiative of your client, your boss and was conceived, and it is still very clear in the law today that it is a programme that carries out transfers. Do you know what came out of this third program? All live, from Pirkovich forward, who has debates, and I don't know what crazy ideas, and it doesn't say anywhere in the marriage, it doesn't say that it has to happen. I would rather see that we end the third programme on national television and put it on the Internet, as the European Parliament does and anyone who wants to watch it can go online has direct transmissions. And what was basically meant will be guaranteed is a dot. Do you have any idea how much money we're saving? But, no, you have to have control, the one who has control of the media, the one who actually has control over people. You know what they say, don't say, "Yes, it was on TV, they said there, they said," yes, and then there's something really about it, no. Please. Besides, you know, I could be screaming today, and I don't know what else I think about the different information programs that are on the national level, but I'm quiet because it's their autonomy. I give the case, the last case that happened: in 30 years, I have not seen the wife of the Prime Minister, who happens to have a central time in Man's broadcast, and it happened by accident. [[Incomprehensible]] Give him a break. I don't know why Charcoe never invited her. Why wasn't he the husband of Alenka Bratusek, who was the Prime Minister of the Government? Why didn't he have a debate, a discussion, an interview with the Man, how did he feel about the Slovenian social political situation? So we don't get it wrong. It's not the Prime Minister's wife's fault. Far from it, not at all. She's the least of it. She responded to the invitation, she was invited. So much for why certain things need to be changed in the programming world. But you can close your eyes and make another win that we may ever see, but I'm sure you'll never.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Pavšič, prepare for Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Well, "nebulosis", moralism and value judgments on this side of the hall are a constant one way or another, but today much more, even though we are talking about one very technical issue, but, you yourself admitted, it is a policy-inclusion in the media and it is a policy-inclusion in reporting. Why are we sitting here today? Because you want to prevent a war with the media and what's called cooking a frog. Because we would like to prevent the control of one political party over the most monitored media because of a particle of content and that is 25%. “The war of an individual with the media does not exist, as does the war of an individual with an army of one state”, wrote the Prime Minister, but this person is not an individual, although he sometimes wants to personalize himself in this role, but because of one other motive. Today is an institution, with several people following it and its current state, the media landscape in Slovenia, does not like it, and we already know the practice of your ideology – if you do not like something, put an alternative. So, for example, for veteran organisations, you have done yours, the Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence. You did not like the Association of Journalists of Slovenia, which is one of the oldest societies in Slovenia, you made your own – the Association of Journalists and Publishers. You don't like history, so you set up a National Reconciliation Center. You don't like the media, so you made your own media. And all this has your signature. This is nothing to be disputed with, but, the problem arose when your media, especially the media, did not have penetration. [[…]] Folk won't listen to them, won't buy them, literally or metaphorically. Right, said the colleague, the audience and listeners judge objectivity, and if such media end up, either after polling opinions or after measuring ratings and obedience, at the end of the day, and marginally, why are they like that? Because of the National Assembly? Because of RTV? No, because of the content. Because of those responsible in the same media. If I was the owner of the media, if the responsible editor hadn't picked me up or at least kept my ratings and listening, I'd have said good-bye a long time ago. But no, yours, one of your responsible editors writes, the call to overthrow the government with violence will not succeed this time, because lefties go to sea, is not expected to protest in Ljubljana during the summer, but will most likely be where there is a lot of drugs. And if that, says the responsible editor of one medium, not on satirical show, but on the most watched television, who does that say? Who's he talking about? And we would also like to get this mode on national television, for public service. We fight against it, and to protect [[sign for the end of the debate]] Not only those 75% of the content that is probably not disputed for you, but they are collateral damage, due to 25% of the shows that do not suit you, in your immeasurable desire that you are infallible, that you are always right and that any criticism is a threat to you. That's it, and we're fighting it, and it's today. [[sign for the end of the debate]] examines several articles of this Act. I know it won't go through anyway, but we'll still be loud. At least here you'll have to listen to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. As RTV Slovenia has already been told several times today in recent years, the loss record is higher every year, this year more than 3 million. On the Committee on Culture, we discussed the report of the RTV Supervisory Board, which is very critical to leadership. More than once, it has required the preparation of a recovery plan, and this is mainly the case for new funds, so the increase in the contribution paid by citizens and citizens does not want to see what the reserves are in the house. Of course, the programme board has a role to play in this regard, which may give the inefficient management an untrustworthy or replace the director. Some of these attempts have been made in recent years but have not been successful. Which shows that the people who have been appointed to the programming world in one other coalition are now telling us that there is a policy in the programming world. None of the proposals we supported in the SDS were confirmed, but one of the other coalitions in January 2018 appointed the people whom you now say are politically proposed by civil society, but of course confirmed in Parliament. You're telling us a lot of things, too. The SDS is responsible for everything, for everything that's obviously wrong with RTV, even though we know it's not the case, but it's mostly the fault of someone taking it to the director for everything that's been going on in recent years. What we miss and what we often talk about is that one program is also a good one, of course, a lot of RTV is good, we have problems with information broadcasts on the obvious, which are - you have to admit, if you watch objectively - strongly tilted to the left. It is a good programme for me to be able to confront opinions if journalists prepare broadcasts in such a way that they face opinions that different experts from different fields can come and talk about them. Recently, a documentary was divided on television, followed by a conversation with two lefts, two rights, or two who defended one side and two who defended the other. We used to have such shows on RTV very many times, but today there are not many such topics: prom yes or no, the situation in older people's homes, whether we have enough or too little home of older people, healthy life, I don't know, violence in society, violence in schools, addiction issues and so on, Roma issues are now very topical, but there are no more talk shows on RTV. When I asked Mr Kadunec about it he said that people wouldn't look at it, he just thought that people wouldn't look at it, even though somewhere else they would look at it. Among other things, on the third programme, which disturbs someone so much in Parliament now that we remember what reports we have listened to and what reports we have heard from Parliament until there was a transmission as if we were not sitting at that meeting. The summaries were many times far from the reality of what was happening in Parliament and a third parliamentary channel was introduced. By then, virtually every television station in Europe alone had exclusive journalists to report on what was happening at the meeting, now people can watch the broadcast and create their own opinion. Do they believe more what we tell or what you tell, because in the end they have to create an opinion to say who they will support in the elections? On the third programme is also colleague Perkovic, or journalist Perkovic, for whom Mr Möderndorfer says it is wrong, but also in his shows because you want colleagues and colleagues are usually two on one side, two on the other, but proportionally it is possible to face opinions on different topics. You don't jump into a word, you don't break it, and you can just say a thought to the end, and what kind of thing you explain, because the laws we adopt here, and we talk about them for hours and hours, you can't tell about them in 30 seconds in Odessa. But that's what we're forced to do. And then report someone's not going on the show. If you judge that you won't be able to say what you have to say about certain things, then you don't go, and that's a sovereign policy decision, but it'll go on the show or it won't go. No one can force you like you can't force a reporter to ask you a question. Now, at first, my colleague Divacov told me what I have against the deaf and deaf and blind and the visually impaired. Of course, I have nothing, and I also think it is right that they have an impact on who will be the representative in the programming world. What I've been asking for is why they are privileged and all other representatives of disability and humanitarian organisations are excluded. That was my question. As for a few other things, so other organizations that you've chosen and according to you should be those that propose members of the programming board. I still don't think it's a proportionate arrangement if you say that you name one representative in the field of associations, in the field of film and audio-visual production. Turn off all the others, and someone else's work, probably similar things. Equally representative of the professional associations of music creators. I estimate that the existing law is much more open-ended, who proposes, because we now have it written down that the members are appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from societies, associations of societies, their organisations, in particular in the fields of art, culture, science and journalism and other civil society organisations. This is a much more inclusive criterion than what you're proposing. Now, the bill could be liked in terms of giving something to do, but as you yourself have estimated, if the programming council is political, it is not because of us who are reading it, but because of the previous coalition that appointed 16 members who were endorsed by the National Assembly on 22 January 2018. None of these were on the proposal of the SDS, but you've confirmed them to others, so why we've been talking about this the whole time, the most criticized and the most guilty, and I don't know what's wrong with this country, is the SDS's fault. If the Programme Council is political, and we have often seen this behind us, we have, in fact, also said why, when the President of the Programme Council was President of the United Nations, the former, Mr Kocjančič, and Mr Pikalo, even the Minister later, the SD, there was nothing to interfere with. And when he notices that, we're all deaf and no one wants to hear about it. And it's such a beautiful thing to go on. When we talk about changes in the programming world, it is probably necessary to think carefully and involve a slightly wider range of people, not now, because you are angry at LMŠ, that you are no longer in the government and that you estimate that we do not like RTV. Look, we've been critical before. We've said those things that are to be criticized, and we've criticised them. Even years ago. It's not new now, and something very new is such aggression, including RTV, to the government. My friend Bear said we should praise the government, RTV. He doesn't have to be praised, but the last time on the Committee on Culture, the director of television said that they did this children's show in two days or three days, over the weekend, monitoring, they said they could have had a school at a distance. [[sign for the end of the debate]] For those of you who can't do it, and she said, and that we should commend it. And my observation was only in the sense that the Government had taken some good measures that would be expected to praise them or not to praise them, at least objectively. However, she did not receive any commendation, but she did not need to be commended, just to express objectively which things were good, and she could not do so. In all their famous shows, even more, they attack everything on average. [[sign for the end of the debate]] I also mentioned Tarcho, in which doctors were accused practically in the homes of elderly citizens of literally killing people in their homes. That's a little too bad, and that's the kind of damage he can do. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Reploco's got dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u138	Yes, thank you for identifying myself in others, for the first time, of course the SDS isn't responsible for everything. The SDS would be some kind of meteorological phenomenon that was no longer there, because if I quote Janša, the party that he took over. If we didn't want to go, under the notes, someone normal, now everybody's barking. [[?]] , every five donuts, every one such a wrinkled creature, a good high-a-vis theme, what Drnovšek called the Prince of Darkness. Actually, I wanted to talk to you about something else. Well, that's what they say, Mrs. Jeraj, different experts. I used to be a better expert in spatial sociology, now I'm a little worse because I don't have time to deal with it, and as an expert in spatial sociology I'm not a lion or a gum, I'm an expert or a little less expert. As far as balance is concerned, there must be no excuse for indiscretion, for stupidity, but for the nebulos that we used to see on these shows. Let's say sometimes, if there was an expert of mine from Dr. Smrke's FDV, some experts who might have been closer to someone else have refused to come to the meetings and to the talks. And as the speaker said before me, we're talking here for hours and hours, which, if I didn't say something, we'd still be on TV for hours and hours and hours and hours and more about what we're talking about here. In every society that seriously thinks itself, there are at least 15, 20 seriously accredited journalists and journalists, a journalist of Dnevnik is one such, and the rest of it is that Mrs Meta Rogic forgives me, who is seriously monitoring the work of Parliament and, of course, analyzes and responds to it. We'll see about five lives here. And I would like such a public service, but I also agree with Janie, there would be no madness that this third programme of ours is on the Internet, and because of me, you can give young journalists and journalists what they want to do on it. Let joy go to life, let them show us, after all, that it is also possible [[sign for the end of the debate]] some other and different communication. The National Assembly isn't even one, but, you know, a café where we're just going to give some opinions as a little bit. The National Assembly should be a public use of the mind and a valuable exercise in the argument that I see a little bit here, for at least the last six years, almost what I am here. That's it, for a minute, thank you. [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the proposaler Lidija Dijak Mirnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Now, I have to respond to what my colleague Jeraiev said, if you quote, roughly, SDS is responsible for everything that is wrong on RTV. Now I, as a proponent today, have not said a single word about it, nor has the List of Marjan Šarc said anything about it. It is a feeling, however, that the SDS would like RTV to become an executor of political interests, and it is a feeling that it would also like to give up critical control over the functioning of the government. And that's what you've been saying all along, and I have this feeling. Of course I'm wrong about this feeling, but I don't think so. Now, the colleague also spoke about the previous coalition, which appointed some members of the Programme Committee in 2018, the List of Marjan Sarca in January 2018 has not yet been in Parliament. That's probably what you were talking to your coalition partner at SMC, I suppose. In order to include a wider circle of people in this bill and also a wider circle of these organizations, the civilian who could have this programme councillor said, “Yes, I agree with that”, so, as we have already said, we offer you a hand to change things to change them in another reading and find some compromise, we have no problem with that, but now, I am afraid that you have a problem with that. However, I will be happy to review this draft law, which the Minister has apparently already drawn up, perhaps now, in the following words, what more to say and politely ask that I get it as soon as possible, but that I may then be able to define myself. Now, you also said that it was wrong to be in these talk shows, not that it was some kind of left and some kind of right. Now, as far as I'm concerned, there must be objective professional guests there, who are just telling a balanced story, according to some of their beliefs. Now, I think it is wrong that it must be “like” the left and “like” the right, because I do not know why the world and Slovenia could be divided into left and right. I don't share them that way, and I don't think it's right for us to share them. But you also said that once on SLO 3 reporting was one-way and, of course, you assessed it that way, but you also obviously made your TV, which I personally have no problem with, and I don't actually see it, because I just don't watch it, because I don't watch it, because it seems like a waste of time, but if you want it, you sell your story there, and it's also your problem. I suppose that's where you explain this to some of your constituents, who are just noding about it, and they're glad that now someone has really told them the truth. But that's just, yeah, your legitimate right, I don't have a problem with it, but I don't know why public RTV should become some sort of trumpet, and that's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. The word is from a government representative, Dr. Vasko Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u142	Thank you very much. So, first of all, I would start by listening to these different views on the programming world and how television should be designed, and also by a Member who spoke about Prešeren's fund and about the breakdown of democracy, that this should be, therefore, I am glad to live in parliamentary democracy and that we have a Parliament where the free word is at home and also elsewhere, outside this House, I am glad that freedom of speech is, of course, and that such in-depth thoughts about, so, professional people, we hear from political mouths, there is nothing wrong and I am glad that in this house can be said everything and kindly. In view of this, of course, what I have heard, it seems to me that, above all, it is a fundamental thing, from which this house, or any house, Parliamentary, is established, this is actually a mistrust. Untrust is actually one expression that drives us to convince one or another of concepts and the reason for changing the programming world is actually one expression, some particular mistrust of someone. And, of course, in this context, of course, it is important, especially that we have to look at how these things are arranged. In dictatorship, power doesn't trust people, but in democracy, people trust and don't trust people, of course, and they test people, of course, at every single election, where there is a political place where one gets a certain voice and the other doesn't get it, in terms of control, that is, power or meeting a place we call power. However, in such a world, we also have a public institution called Radiotelevision Slovenia or in other countries, i.e., in the notes, of course, much earlier public television and ensure that people get different special and political preferences and world-based definitions correct information on the situation in the country both at political, economic and at all other levels. However, if such a public space is to be occupied, whether it is occupied or informed by television maintained by all, everyone with their contribution, whether they have won or not in the political game, must therefore receive professional excellent information which is possible, I am not talking about public media, where I am not interested in whether people have primary school or not, but are journalists, understand, but here I am interested. Here people need to get the right information, which addresses and refers to all those who support such media. And that is why the programming world must be professional if you want and, of course, editorial politicians and journalists to the extreme, which means that they must meet the smallest criteria, if you want, first of all, at least the ones we never address, in fact, this is at least a starting point of formal education. There is no lawyer without the easiest exam, no doctor without an easier exam, there was no doctor in Yugoslavia even if he did not have a pre-war exam. So we can have a reporter with us. If it's in the private media, let's say in a week where the editor-in-chief of unknown origin, actually the owner, the editor-in-chief has a primary school, I don't care. However, I am interested in this in the public media where the starting point is to be that minimum which is called at least a formal education. In the public media today we even have a fan of different levels of education, which means that even though some of them are doctors of science, some of them have barely graduated from high school, in fact the criteria are lost. And that's when the outside influences enter this space if you want, if you want, who break and break this autonomy. Autonomy is nothing more than responsibility. But responsibility requires a lot of knowledge to be approached at least by having a baseline education. You're also missing on our RTV. If we compare when I say that television should be addressed, such public television should be addressed to all people who participate in the maintenance of such media by distance, neutrality and high professionalism. You can compare Austria’s television, the first, the second program, not least about the information program, if you watch Telegiornale one or two, i.e. Italian television, not to mention others, the BBC and the like. It is true, however, that there is an eternal problem in all these countries, so this problem is the pursuit of this matter. Recently, the BBC was replaced by its editor-in-chief, but let's just leave it at that. However, these basic things are followed by addressing all people in a neutral, objective way, as far as possible, but for this, it is necessary to have bases and then do not enter into such a place, the masters cannot enter, while in all other media we have even known masters, the journalists forgive as the last poor, and all are silent, including this Parliament, and I actually cannot be in the public media. So we had before in Yugoslavia or in the previous regime, logically it was that the editors of the major newspapers were without schools, you see, members of the central committees and stupidity, and they were ashamed, talked earlier about the embarrassment of the appointment of people with high qualifications, then it was something to the extremes of shameful and humiliating, then those editors and hosts who entered the space and this is being dragged directly into our space today also into public broadcasting, and that is, of course, one of the fundamental problems that stems from a course of mistrust and therefore does not follow the principle that people should be objectively professionally at a high level. All those addressed with information that everyone understands and that is, what can be objective here today is not despite the provision of a great deal of resources. Of course we can talk, we hear this party here so the SDS of course is what you would call the leader of the prince of darkness. That man who said that to him, I would tell these people today with a bad education, despite all their doctorate, but they didn't have what the princes of light had in humanities. I hope you know these are Lucifers. So, if we're gonna let this happen. It's about showing that there are such influences or other influences that someone tweets and someone talks. Listen, you need to look back ground, on what basis such things have been happening. If someone says from the press that they are members of the SDS, that they are members of the death legion, that people are being bribed in court. Listen, a man reacts and he says, "These are reactions to impulses, to constant insults, to constant innuendo, so the stupidity is low as to say cultural level." And, of course, the programming world seems to me, which this party is proposing, is kind of premature. I'd have a lot of comments, like technical intelligence, interesting or not? Technology enables development. There's not one engineer, one of the engineering chambers or I don't know where, don't tell me the academy can call it, it can, but at the same time, it's full of humanists and sociologists and so on. I'm not gonna say this because I'm not interested in this world because it's wrong, because you're too deep into it because you haven't compared it to the real world. Here you have France, Austria, England in your note, and so on we cannot compare ourselves to this, because everything is completely different and they are in the introduction of this law. You've gone too far to be convincing, so I reject him and I hope he won't be supported. But it is necessary to go to an update of the RTV law, valid for 15 years, set it up to be spoken to by Grims' marriage - all honour to him - is a man who has deepened into it and is here with some undertones the same Grims marriage up here. No one goes to his knees. You all don't know half as much about Grimes as you do about media laws. By the way, it is necessary to update and align it with development, with material and technical things, to give it one modern form of this institution, which will therefore meet the challenges of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Dr. Duck. We'll reopen the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u144	Thank you, Chairman. Look, warn the district minister that he's a minister. He is a member of the executive branch of the Authority and, under Article 110 of the Constitution, corresponds to the National Assembly. What Dr. Simoniti went to was to hold earlier on to the post MP as minister. He is a guest in this house and is also subject to the Rules of Procedure. Please find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Replica, Marco Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u146	I just wanted to remind the minister, which he took to regarding Prešeren's fund. I have expressed my disagreement with the choice of members, which is my pure legitimate right in this House and you cannot challenge it to me. You can't let yourself say that in here. If I gave my opinion, here was my opinion, here my opinion was legitimate as a Member. I didn't agree with those members, and that's what I said, and that's all. What you think of my opinion is your business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Dr. Vasko Simoniti's representative of the government has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u148	As of course we have every opinion, for sure, but because I said that honor is worthy of us being able to express ourselves freely in this house. And I am overjoyed, even though there are things I don't agree with at all, and I think they are also at the border of some elementary, as I would say, cultural level. For you said that the members of Prešeren's fund were broken from the break of democracy. Okay, I don't agree with that. God help you or me.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the proposaler Lidija Mirnik Dijak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. You are the Minister of Culture, I stress the culture of all Slovenians, not just those who voted for the SDS. That's it. And I'm not going to discuss this right now, which you've just allowed yourself, because I don't think you can afford this in this house, but let's just let it stand. But you also said that we all support RTV. If they have won or not won the political game, people need to get the right information that addresses all those who support it. That's about what you said. Yes, and that's how it is today. Because we are talking about the public institution of special cultural and national importance, because it is committed to the public and not to the one who won the elections, because that is the point. You just obviously didn't understand him. And he's also committed to a variety of content. It's not everything, but it's for everyone. I already said that today. Let me just remind you that RTV isn't just an echo and another morning chronicle. RTV is not just Studio at 17 or Target where, according to your opinion, it is not reported properly. RTV is also a documentary program, and the middle of the film, is also the Intellect and Saturday broadcast of Hudo, is the Infodrome that helped save with the crown the affected school year, and the people and the earth, Hidak - bridges, we all know that, Globe, children's, youth program, sports broadcasts, we all watch them in the Planica jumping masters who, of course, have to congratulate, Good morning, which I heard this morning before I went to work, that even during summer vacations will continue to play it because people wanted it. It is also a consulting service, rejected – get, classic and all other music, concerts, week name, month. I like driving to Ljubljana to listen to the ADR program about Val 202, which was celebrating yesterday's birthday, and I don't even start talking about it. It's something for everyone. So, for anyone who pays for a subscription. That's the way it is, and that's the way it is. In LMŠ, we have actually proposed a simple step in this proposal, a simple one. And it is that the policy, or we, in this hall, is to take responsibility for the appointment of 16 saints. It's very simple. To make a permanent end of RTV Slovenia's human rights policy mix, which is not only the largest media house in the country, but also the largest cultural institution. That's what we suggested. It's nothing. We have proposed something most normal in democracy. For every age there is something on RTV, even though it does not serve the market but serves the public. RTV is actually there for the public and not for performers of partial political interests. Autonomy, independence and freedom begin with non-interference, with respect, without crossing borders, even with tolerance. However, all passwords do not help if they are dishonest when reading a dispatch that is not supposed to be, when reading stories about the media and the frog and when reading tweets, they are silent. This means that there is no comment that everything is okay and that everything is allowed. And it means that the bill is allowed. The silence is eloquent, the guilt is the same, and karma is the same. That's why I'd like ex-colleagues in the coalition, called Desus and SMC, to recognize that. And they support it. This is what they say about the public, about these tai-ta media that they respect. 16 councillors today appointed by the National Assembly would be appointed directly by the professional public and civil society. That's our proposal. Directly. With a new method of appointment and a new composition of the programming board, we do not destroy the system. We take nothing from civil society or from the professional public. We take it for ourselves. Politics. And we give a lot of public RTV Slovenia, say peace or freedom, if you want, or independence, if you want, and that's what this is about. And that's what we're proposing. And so we ask the other partners in this National Assembly to support it. In LMŠ, we are not for the decommissioning of RTV, we have never been and we never will. We didn't get involved in RTV when we were in the government, because we didn't do it, we never did it, and we'll never do it. Finally: RTV is a public service, but politics takes it too far as an object of desire. However, it is necessary to be honest, not all parties are prepared to cross the limits of the permissible, not all. And I'm sure we're not in LMSH. However, there is one party who makes a strong point. It does not understand that RTV is far from just an information program, it is only 25%, everything else is also RTV. 6 radio programs create, 3 national television programs, but you're only interested in and only 25%, and there, that Target, it's obvious. We do not understand the institution in the List of Marjana Charca as prey, nor do we understand it as leverage, because it is wrong, so, dear colleagues, I ask you once again politely to confirm this amendment to the two articles of the law, just two, 17 and 18, in the first reading. Which means in the second reading with the amendments, we can also say, after you've adapted, find compromises and talk about what we should be talking about. But since I don't believe in fairy tales anymore, and I don't believe in Santa Claus, I think, of course, this is my begging here now sucks. However, I would like to see at least that proposal, which we have heard little from the Minister of Labour today, and we have heard from the Coalition Member, also in the List of Marjan Šarc as soon as possible, so that we can examine it and make comments, which we certainly hope you will take into account. We are talking about public RTV and independence and independence, all of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. I'm guessing the interest in sharing is the rest of the time. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proponent Lidija Dijak Mirnik and the representative of the Government, please sign in by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case you will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u152	Yes, thank you very much for your word. I didn't mean to come by, but after these escapades of Dr. Simoniti, I had to. Now, I don't know, Minister, do you know what the average age on RTV Slovenia is, employees? A little less than 47 years. If you count down 30 years, these people were second, third year of high school, or you know. You're selling this story, yes, that it's some old system, that they're uneducated, that's what it is, unacceptable and offensive for a minister who should cover it. Secondly, something that is privately owned does not mean that it is not a public medium. After all, the public media is also the Twitter of the Prime Minister, the public media is Twitter Government, the public media is the Crisis Headquarters, which then you persecute there – what already? – Left fascists or I don't know what they are all public media and I don't agree with the proponent who says, so you have a private medium there, and I don't care, but you can do whatever you want. [[…]] If they violate the Constitution on this private media, both Article 14 and Article 34 and Article 35, which speaks of personal dignity, this is something that you, Mr Minister, should be dealing with. You should also be concerned, of course, because you have correctly noticed that certain bullying of journalists and journalists is taking place, especially in the print media, which have been adopted by so-called "Tykun" gentlemen. Read the Portal Under the Line. If you, as a resortary minister, are saying that, according to your household, you are down to the point that editors have a primary school or not, you are essentially in favour of “deserve” the media, something, unacceptable, because of this statement you should give up this moment, because of whether you know and the National Assembly is not freedom of speech at home, at least from 15.55 yesterday when you took away my parliamentary immunity. Why is that? Because I said that a party and a gentleman had adopted 10,000 euro books and that this gentleman had declared how much an election vote costs in Finance, which was actually in the study, in the first five, six terms of the National Assembly, the Secretary of State of the Government wrote down. You know. And now, you're getting upset here, why don't the National Assembly and the media praise you? Do you know what the problem is, you dear government and SDS? We are not all people in Slovenia masochists. If someone tells me that I'm a prostitute, if he's lying when I'm not an MP, that I beat my ex-wife twice, that I have a restraining order against children, that I'm driving in a Mercedes class of R that I didn't even know what he looked like, what do you think I'm going to do? He got down on his knees, and he said, "Jane, give me more!" You're the representative of this, Mrs. Jeraj. You are a prominent member of this party and you support it. You know, I don't buy you a story when some SDS MP says, I'm an honest man, I'm an honest man, or my friend Perič, I'm a "supervisor". You support this and such a policy, you support this and such “bleaming”, you support this and such a literal fertilizer, which is a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. You do this, and then you expect us all to “organize” over it. No, we will not, gentlemen, because we are not masochists. There's obviously a difference in that. Thank you - but the minister went out now as an insulted “prisoner”, because wait, did he grow up “children” before telling Mark that he appreciated the contradictions of the arguments, but now he rushed the offended out. [[…]] [[…]] I don't know, then maybe it's not for this function? What they put in my face and how many times you've killed me and beaten me, and I don't know what, but some outside of your parliamentary colleagues, some right-wing party who would beat us up on the villa, some SDS member who would put us in jail until we were dead, wouldn't, oh, I was supposed to put up with it all great, I hope, if you were going to mass [[…]] [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I do not know if there is a hell, I fear that the tenth cycle is working for you, but I hope that my colleague Mark will call to say that he is properly "betonated" that the people concerned will not be able to escape from there, right. A little "authoreflation", look what you're doing. Every morning I look at what you're going to be pushing on your democracy, and that newspaper is just the title of Democracy, respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u153	The word is Aljaž Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yes, what the Minister for Culture has now afforded is indeed a disgrace to every minister, and it is an even greater shame that a minister who is supposed to represent culture can afford it, not just for the Ministry and this government, but for the ridicule of a nation at all. And that when we talk about amending the new law, amending the two articles, it does not talk about it at all, but at the same time says that RTV is maintained by all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and it comes from a party that publicly calls for the non-payment of RTV subscriptions, it is actually tragic. Now, a fellow Jeraeva said she wanted more shows like this, two coming from one camp, two coming from another camp. Yes, I am also in favour of these matters when it comes to some professional issues or also to what kind of pension reform we want in Slovenia. But when we talk about some historical facts, it's kind of funny to say that two will come from one camp, and two from another camp, because we can't adapt history to one another, but one another. And that there's something sitting there that explains something that's doing a little bit of doing it, it's just sad. And that's your intention to change some history as well. Now, at the same time, you're saying there are some shows where not everyone is invited. As far as I'm aware of the fact that you have also mentioned Tarč's broadcast several times, the ministers of this government were invited to Tarčo, and both Minister Tonin and Minister Restoration have rejected the invitation to this show and could explain for an hour there what is not true, what the media has said, Ivan Gale, but you have not decided to do so, and then you are asking why they are not invited. You also mentioned that he was, I don't know exactly, offended because you didn't praise how well RTV cared about teaching, and they should commend you for preparing good mega-laws, if I understood correctly. Yes, some journalist in my opinion can commend something that's a fact, I don't know that we were the country that has the best epidemiological picture, what the profession has done, now, about mega-laws, and people will finally tell you how and what, and if Minister Shircel said two days ago that another company didn't get credit, I don't know what the media should invent, that companies got credit and how you helped them. So, I don't know, it's all really a little funny and you're looking for some arguments, all to keep politics in this public house, and it's your intention to destroy it anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u156	Yes, thank you for your word. Even in the SDS, we are not in favour of decommissioning RTV, but we would expect it to be a modern and quality medium, which many times shows it is not. Once again, I said that many broadcasts are fine and we have no problem with it, but there are also many who are openly biased, and this is the problem that we are talking about. Now, some of you have misunderstood me that we must always have two lefts and two rights. I spoke in case of a show where we cooperated with the politicians. In shows where the themes are diverse, as I have listed, the prom, the homes of the elderly, it is only logical that they will be experts in those areas. He didn't want to understand that either Mr Trček nor the proposer, although I think I made it clear. Now, mate, historical facts. But you know, it's not about adjusting history, but it's about digging out of 700 graves in the last 30 years, some 10 graves, some seas, and these are new facts, as well as new documents, on which some things will have to be written in a new way. Not what we were taught in the totalitarian regime when the winning party wrote history. During this time, a lot of new documents were discovered, archives opened up and could be written, and it will have to be rewritten because many documents, as you probably know, were destroyed and so on, that some things would not come in the day. But unfortunately, even with 11 walls, walled, if everything was so right, I don't know why 11 walls were built and walled and bricked, because they obviously knew they were doing the wrong thing by then. And Comrade Duck, violation of the Constitution, violation of the Constitution is one tweet for him. Do you know what a violation of the Constitution is? The illegal prison in which our President was unlawfully removed is a violation of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court has also found that. But not one tweet, look, because of one tweet, it's all drama. You write yours too, but our president has so many followers and he can write what he thinks. We can disagree with that, a constant reading of this prostitute tweet. Last time on national television, he said he regretted it, but of course nobody heard it because he didn't want to hear it, but no. Well, he said he regretted that it was wrong, but it was a reaction to something. That's what he said. And now, colleague Möderndorfer said that so-called our media, Nova and democracy are not viewed, are not defended, are marginal. Then why on earth are you running at them like that if no one's looking at them? Then why are you so worried? Leave them there to die or whatever, if they're so marginal and lame. But obviously they're not, and obviously people can hear some other truth, and that's why we're dealing with a once-in-a-lifetime problem and we're dealing with hate speech and I don't know what's on New 24, but you're not dealing with the hate speech in Youth that we've been watching for 20 years, resentment, insults, etc., our president and us. And then when someone reacts to it, we deal with this reaction and we turn it to the left and to the right and we have to adopt a little less than the law to ban it. It is necessary to respond to all things that are not acceptable. I don't like any of the things either, I didn't like the cover of the Hyena Democracy, I think it's over-needed and completely unnecessary, but look at the 100 headlines of Youth before, and then you'll understand why it was the cover of Democracy. Once again, I don't approve of it, but it's all a reaction to something, and once you set some standard, you have that standard. And if we haven't reacted to this before, now we have what we have, and now one of us would like to come back ten years and we'll start talking again. It's not gonna work out. And again. In democracy, if you disagree with something, you can criticize it. Isn't the RTV review allowed at once? Everyone can criticize us, so we can criticize us. Criticism is always in place for things to improve and we all want better, better quality, more modern RTV.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members! For several hours now, we have been discussing many things, just not what you proposed today, but what you put on the programme board, I think, was the main issue. But then you started to debate, of course you took advantage of the possibilities and we went to no. Round and round about just this software world, design, etc., and fight a little. Now, you simply chose here the Minister of Culture as of course to be at the interpolation and attack him from all sides, on the left, on the right, on all ends and the main topic of RTV. RTV, what, who, where, why, somehow you don't bring, if you hear any things on our side, and I don't think that's right. So if you have an opinion, you have an opinion, and we can have one, or each Member can have an opinion, and it is also right to express it here. If you remember, it's the government of Marjana Sharca, you've been trying to somehow focus on how you order business entities, etc., where you can advertise on which media. I haven't heard anything about this today. That was one of the tougher things you were getting yourself into. Now you're not in the government anymore, and now you're crying that you're not in the government, and just to look at it, it's too late, and every minute it's too bad that you're crying here and you're going to some squid. I think it really sucks. I also think that we should work on RTV much more to promote hospitality, including tourism, detection of Slovenia, Slovenian corners, we know that the crisis was an epidemic, we have vouchers. What are we looking at? We're looking at everything that's alive in Belgium, what I don't know where it is, you find everything, you send reporters and they walk around and they show us from all over Europe and the world. But they don't fight much in Slovenia. I miss that. He sums up RTV a lot of unverified information, even lies. What the portal said under the line, what he said uncensored, what he said harshly. Yeah, God bless you, or you don't have your reporters who are paid well, and you don't have public money. By the way, you're summarizing some untruths, half-truths, lies, beatings, comments that aren't worth half a penny. That's sad. These are the sad things people watch. The opposite of opinions is too little. They have a Tarcho, they have a Studio City run by a journalist or I don't know what he already has a company that makes a lot of money a month, and there at Studio City we listen to stupid things like that and different. Last time you posted here, I think they posted on RTV in the reports a question to the Prime Minister about guards and so on. And when the Prime Minister answered, he showed that picture of the SD president with Shisek, the head of the guard. It was all cut off in a noise. And they didn't show it. They're not gonna show it. The reasons for the tweeting, we heard, the minister told you, every tweet, every response is a response to something that happened. And that's essential. This Target, which has done Slovenia, Slovenia, Slovenia so much damage that it is essentially irreparable if you think it is some normal smart show for the benefit of the public benefit of Slovenes and Slovenes, then I don't know what you're thinking. You can see that everything that appears in Target or on the radio on various shows, when there are some swamp bruises, but I don't know what they have, all sorts of things, you can see that after a week or two weeks, it turns out that the thing isn't real. That this is not what they reported, and the truth comes quickly every day. But the damage has already been done. That's what's problematic. Let us be aware that this is a public RTV service, that it is a public television service that we pay for all taxpayers and, of course, we expect credible information, and no one has overcrowded, nor have I, and I commend all broadcasts from documentary to various shows, and it is not, but as far as the information programme is concerned, is really nothing more than criticism. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Doblekar, myself or our colleagues, my colleagues in the List of Marjan Šarc, have not attacked the Minister, not in a single word. But the Minister of Culture, I repeat, has afforded culture something you shouldn't actually have. And here in the National Assembly. I will not lose words about the Twitter of the Prime Minister, because it is an unworthy function he performs. And this is the President of the Government of all of us. He can tell you what he wants for me, but he can't do it for me, and I'm gonna make a dot here. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we have put forward a proposal for a new law on RTV. The two articles relating to the composition and method of appointment of the Programme Council shall be amended, namely Articles 17 and 18. In short, there are 29 saints in the programming world today, 21 of whom are called the National Assembly. In LMŠ, however, we propose that the Programme Council should have 23 new councillors, of whom only 5 would be appointed by the National Assembly. 13 members would be named according to the same principle as before. 10 members would be appointed directly by civil society and the professional public. The key purpose of the changes is that the National Assembly and, of course, policy have lost decisive influence on the composition of the Programme Council. And that's it, no more and no less. We do not see in the LMŠ any valid reason for the decisive influence on the appointment of programme councilors to continue to maintain policy. None. Not one. RTV is a public medium of particular importance, meaning that it is committed to the public or exclusively to the public interest. By doing so, the production and transmission of the most quality and diverse programmes, both informative, both educational, cultural and recreational. Its content is intended for various age groups and social groups, including those groups which are excluded by commercial competitions due to the market uninterest of certain content. And that's the purpose of public RTV. However, defenders of public interest must be programme councilors, but if most of them are called political, it is justified to fear that, despite their so-called independence, they will also become executors of political interests. In the Marjan Šarc Letter, we expect fellow Members to support this proposal as well. President Desus Pivčev recently claimed that the party, I quote, "takes the absolute freedom and independence of the media." End of story. If this is true, and if it is true, then we can expect Desus to support this innovation in the design and design of the programming board. Let me also recall the words of my colleague Janje Slug from SMC, who said: “We still believe in professionalism, independence and independence of the media. Such a way of communicating policy with the media is certainly not something that would contribute to the greater credibility of both sides." End of story. The declaration refers to a war with the media, a so-called war with the media, as President Janez Janša addressed his writing or swimming pool. And to conclude, if we want to preserve and strengthen the professionalism, independence and independence of public television, and if we also have civil society representatives in the programming world, then we should also be called in fact and directly by civil society and the professional public. Politics must simply take that authority away. That would be mature, democratic and responsible, so I expect you to support the law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item — First defence proposal for a bill on the budgetary arrangement for investment in transport infrastructure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members, first signed by Maša Kociper. With regard to this bill, a group of 39 Members and Members of Parliament, signed first, Maša Kociper, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Andrey Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the ministry, fellow Member and Members. The Ambassador and Members of the SAB Group have tabled in the legislative procedure a draft law on the budget fund for investments in transport infrastructure. Transport infrastructure is clearly one of the key conditions for the consistent development of Slovenia and also enables mobility of the population and the provision of the economy. Currently, we are facing an economic crisis due to the Covid-19 epidemic. In order to avoid repeated errors between 2008 and 2013, when state investments have virtually stopped, we want the applicants to provide a permanent financial source for infrastructure projects. This would provide resources to finance these projects. Regular and stable sources of funding will allow for continued maintenance and maintenance of existing infrastructure, which was also one of the purposes of the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030. This resolution was adopted in 2016 in the National Assembly and provides for investments to be made on the basis of a six-year plan. The road network in Slovenia is 6,000 kilometres long. The situation of our roads is not good and, as a result, causes great costs, as many renovations and rehabilitations are needed. Poor road conditions also mean higher costs for users, as shown by fuel consumption, vehicle robbery and the extension of travel time. In addition, we have more than a thousand 200 kilometres of railway lines, which are at the border crossing capacity. The situation of rail lines is problematic for both passenger and freight transport. The whole rail system needs a comprehensive overhaul if we are to provide quality services for carriers, passenger transport and goods. The main objective of the proposal is, therefore, to provide additional reliable resources to finance the necessary investments in transport infrastructure in addition to the existing revenues for investment and investment maintenance of transport infrastructure. These funds would be used both to maintain the current situation and also to improve or upgrade transport infrastructure. In doing so, I should stress that these funds can be allocated to all transport infrastructure: road, rail, maritime and aviation. This law will thus, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, set up a specific budget fund called the Infrastructure Fund for an indefinite period. To finance the Fund, the proposal provides for the following resources: an annual road vehicle duty, a concession fee for Luke Koper, a reimbursement for emergency transport, a charge for checked-out vehicles, a fee for the use of passenger safety facilities and, most importantly, 2 percentage points of VAT, amounting to around EUR 270 million per year. All of the resources envisaged for funding the Fund are already the resources of the state budget. The use of funds from the Infrastructure Fund will be decided by the Ministry of Infrastructure as its manager. The proposal also provides for the elimination of the time limit on the provision of dedicated resources for the implementation of investments and the maintenance of transport infrastructure. To ensure the possibility of medium- and long-term planning of investments and maintenance of transport infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Aleš Mihelić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, for an introductory presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u164	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The efficiency of the transport system is an important factor for sustainable social development, improving population mobility and contributing to economic development in all areas. The lack of sufficient financial resources for investment and investment maintenance in the field of transport infrastructure has been facing us for several years, which has had a negative impact on its state. The poor state of the transport network causes high costs and costs to transport persons and goods. With the proposed law, in addition to existing dedicated resources, this is an annual levy on the use of road vehicles and the concession fee of Luke Koper as additional financial resources for the purpose of providing means for the development of transport infrastructure, they also propose a refund for emergency transport by main and regional roads, a charge for cancelled vehicles, a fee for the use of maritime safety facilities and two percentage points of value added tax, at annual level. In doing so, we can find that all the additional financial resources provided for are derived from transport infrastructure, which is not applicable to VAT. VAT is added value, VAT is all phased and indirect tax on goods and services as it is paid at each stage of the distribution chain. VAT is one of the forms of transport tax that taxes goods and services at all stages of transport, from manufacturer, trader, to final consumer. It is a consumer form of value added tax, taxing goods and services at all stages of the exchange, and the burden of the tax, within the framework of the distribution chain, shifts to the final consumer. In view of the accelerated deterioration of transport infrastructure, in particular road infrastructure, we are aware of the urgent need to provide additional financial resources that will allow for medium- and long-term planning and investment maintenance of road infrastructure, but a set of dedicated resources must be carefully thought out in advance in order to establish a clear link between the source and the purpose of the use of each financial resource. The key objective to be pursued in identifying dedicated resources for investment in transport infrastructure is that the main sources come from the use and burden of transport infrastructure and that, in whole or in part, they are intended to invest, in the field of transport infrastructure, in order to maintain or improve transport infrastructure. The latter VAT condition does not meet and therefore the use of VAT as a resource for investment in transport infrastructure is not appropriate. In the light of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In the opinion of the Government on the adequacy of the law and prepared content, however, we would like to draw attention to just a few of the content that we have witnessed, but somehow we do not like it very much. The law that I can show you here, which is in preparation at the Ministry of Infrastructure, is the law that describes the infrastructure fund on 16 pages, has been prepared by the Ministry's professional staff in the past period, and has now appeared a similar, almost identical law, on behalf of the parliamentary group. Just so you'll have an illustration. It is a law on sixteen pages, with 11 lines and 2 on the other side being amended, and it may also be added, the pictures are the same, the graphics are all the same, and 8 lines on the fourteenth page and the signed page, the last one, is different than ours at the Ministry. In short, I just want to point out some practice, if I compare it, I come from the economy, there is a slightly foreign approach. If you limit the employer, you take the material with you, [[sign for the end of the debate]] Which you did there and then you sell to the new employer, that's considered unsanitary, at least, if as something else. The law, in short, is not supported in this form, nor do we imagine that in the future we would cultivate such a way of making laws, but it is within the competence of the National Assembly. I believe you'll be the judge of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Group of Members tabled in the National Assembly a proposal for a law on the budget fund for investments in transport infrastructure. They want to regulate the provision of dedicated funds for investment and investment maintenance of transport infrastructure by means of a bill. This is how they propose the establishment of a budget fund for investments, investment maintenance of transport infrastructure as a budget fund. The proposed sources of financing for the infrastructure fund include dedicated revenues such as the annual road use levy, the Porta Koper concession fee, d.d., belonging to the Republic of Slovenia, the reimbursement for emergency transport by main and regional roads, the duty on cancelled vehicles, the fee for the use of the maritime safety facility and 2 % of VAT per year. With regard to the proposed solutions, we understand that it is necessary to provide funds for the implementation of investment maintenance and transport infrastructure, and therefore, already under the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets and the Sectoral Law, the revenue of the annual benefit by means of road transport vehicles, the revenue of the concessional duty of Luke Koper, which belongs to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the revenue from the duty on the decommissioned vehicle, is used for the implementation of investments and the maintenance of public transport infrastructure. By asking whether the budget fund is needed at all? The law also provides a solution to the fact that dedicated investment revenues, investment maintenance of transport infrastructure also extend to revenues from extraordinary transport on main and regional roads and revenues with a fee for the use of maritime safety facilities. We can understand that this solution is in the direction of identifying dedicated resources for investment in transport infrastructure arising from the use and burden of transport infrastructure, so there is a clear link between the source and the purpose of the use of a single financial resource. However, we cannot understand that a source is being set for the financing of the VAT budget fund. Additional value shall be taxable on VAT. VAT is one of the forms of transport tax that taxes goods and services at all stages of transport from the manufacturer to the final consumer. It is a consumer form of value added tax that taxes goods and services at all stages of exchange. The key objective to be pursued in identifying dedicated resources for investment in transport infrastructure is that the main sources come from the use and burden of transport infrastructure and that it is, in whole or in part, dedicated to investment in transport infrastructure with the aim of maintaining or improving transport infrastructure. This, however, does not materialise with the inclusion in the resources of the VAT budget fund. VAT is an important source of funding for the state budget and cannot be considered as a dedicated resource as such. The determination of the purpose of the source would result in a loss of money for the provision of legal obligations. We certainly understand that the proposal for solutions can be liked, but because of the needs of the budget it is not realistic. With regard to the proposal for a law, we wonder why members of the SAB propose a different law than the one put by the President of the SAB to public debate as the Minister of Infrastructure. The Law, which was in public debate 22. 1. 2020, he did not have VAT as a source of the budget fund. As a result of all the above in the Desus Group, we consider that the Law on the Budget Fund for the Investment of Transport in Infrastructure is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group of Members will be presented by Dusan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u168	Nice greetings to all present! Look, there's something here that a former colleague said, something about these things they said, who made something, why it was. It says in the paper that the secretary wanted to have it before. Look, I don't see any issue here, but it's true that we don't know where this money is going to be collected, because we're taking money from the road fund and we're not getting anything into the infrastructure or very little. Then we have, something started moving on the second track, a third development axis and they come, we know who, NGOs boycotting, stopping traffic, building, and we're talking here about how some solutions would work. And if I look a little bit more inside, there's nothing we've asked the questions we sent, including the Ormož-Ptuj road, since 1997, it's been in place, it's spent 18 million, but if we go to look at reality today, we'll see where we're going and who's going to stop us. The wise guy's gonna be jumping out of some bushes with a lollipop. Nothing really happened on this road. Then we also gave initiatives for rail transport, so we have railways from before World War II, railway stations are very smallly arranged, platforms not to say what can be happening there and nothing at all. We have to start with this fund, or we will start making some kind of money, because the money is going to go to the infrastructure, but we just have to start redistributing it, not having some money for some projects, and then finally, when we come to the conclusion that something is going to happen, the government will be replaced, and then the new government will fall and then the new government will come, and the new government has other appetites, and it goes from day to decade. Dear colleagues, we've been in here for two years, I don't know, I don't know yet, but I'm on the Infrastructure Committee, and I don't know what I can say at the end of this term, what we've done. I can tell you - nothing. We just didn't do anything because we're always throwing pollen under our feet, what the previous government did wrong, what this government is going to do wrong, the citizens are looking at us, laughing at us, if I say at the previous point, we've had some stupid discussions for six hours, we haven't even come to the conclusion. I don't know. And these things, on the infrastructure, respected colleagues, you have a lot to do, anti-group fences, not long ago, if I recall you, two years ago, at Celje they set up protective fences, anti-group fences, after six months, I don't know why, it came up that those who were paid had to be removed, and new ones had to be put away. This is the kind of crap we do in this country. And where will that lead us? Nowhere. In the road fund we have money, DARS has money, third axis, from Koroška dol, is not implemented, third axis, valley, not implemented, the previous minister said how nice it is by "regl" that we will have by 2022 to have done, we have nothing done, I mean, we will not soon drive on these roads. It's all just some promises. And I don't know, we've made a suggestion that the bypass in Ljubljana will at least temporarily be resolved, now we have everything signaled, it could be written up, under the suspension lane, to redirect the trucks and buses and to limit it to 100 km/h, not 130. And it would reduce everything, the fumes and the exhaust gas. But we don't know this, of course we don't know because the Slovenian National Party proposes something and we are, we're not in the government, we're not in the opposition, we're unlisted [[sign for the end of the debate]] . Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Leon Merjasec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues as well. Transport infrastructure is of great importance in the road area of the Republic of Slovenia for smooth development, as it allows mobility of the population, and it certainly encourages the development of economic activity. Long-term infrastructure represents high costs and many congestions, causing delays and reducing competitiveness of rail transport as well. In the area of infrastructure, the lack of sufficient financial resources for investment and investment maintenance has been facing us for several years. Which is also, which is also reflected negatively and causes high costs and costs for the transport of persons and goods. We are aware of the problems of road infrastructure in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we have proposed a bill on the budget fund for investment in transport infrastructure in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 2016 and have not been adopted. We now have on the table a new draft law on the budget fund for investment in transport infrastructure, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Maša Kociper, proposing the establishment of a budget fund to be set up by the Finance Act and provided by a constant source for infrastructure projects. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the urgent need to provide additional financial resources that will allow medium- and long-term planning of investments, investment maintenance of road infrastructure. However, we need to be most resource-oriented in advance in order to establish a clear link between the copy and the purpose of the use of a single financial resource. In addition to the existing dedicated resources, the proposed law's annual road transport levy and the concession fee of Luke Koper of the shareholder company as additional financial resources for the purpose of providing means for the development of transport infrastructure also proposes a report on emergency transport on main and regional roads. A charge for cancelled vehicles, a fee for the use of maritime safety facilities and, of course, 2 percentage points of value added tax at annual level. In doing so, we note that all additional dedicated financial resources come from transport infrastructure. This does not apply to VAT. The main sources come from the use and burden of transport infrastructure and are, again and in whole or in part, dedicated to investment in transport infrastructure with the aim of maintaining or improving it. And because the latter condition of value added tax does not meet the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will not support.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Edward Paulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u172	Dear President! Colleagues and colleagues! Modern and technologically completed road and rail infrastructures are the driving forces of the country's economic development. A key condition for achieving high technological standards in the area of sustainable mobility is the continuous and continuous financing of infrastructure projects and the provision of conditions for proportionate development of both road and rail infrastructure. The proposal for a law on the budget fund for investment in transport infrastructure follows those objectives as it provides for the establishment of a dedicated budget fund to be financed from the annual road traffic charges from the port of Koper concession fees for the reimbursement of emergency transport on main and regional roads, from the charges for decommissioned vehicles and from the charges for the use of maritime safety facilities. It is also envisaged that the Fund will be financed from VAT at 2 percentage points per year. However, all funds will be earmarked for investment and investment maintenance of transport infrastructure. With the establishment of the budget fund, the so-called golden rule of investment in transport infrastructure, which is the basis for the equal planning and implementation of transport infrastructure projects over the longer term, is finally implemented. As part of the exit strategy from the economic crisis and the elimination of the direct economic and social damage caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the European Commission has included sustainable mobility projects in a broader recovery and resilience mechanism that pursues the objectives of international commitments, treaties and agreements to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. In the LMŠ Group, we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration, as the establishment of an infrastructure fund provides a basis for ensuring a stable and even funding source for the implementation of a sustainable long-term investment programme in transport infrastructure. However, improvements to the legal text and possible more appropriate solutions can still be found during the legislative process.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u174	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The draft law, the main objective of which is to establish a budget fund for investment in transport infrastructure, was introduced by the SAB party. In the Group of Social Democrats, we share the opinion of the applicants that the situation of our roads and railways is frightening. These are not just roads and railways for transport infrastructure are also air and maritime transport. Slovenia has a very geostrategic position in Europe, but it has yet to make full use of its potential for rail, road and maritime connections. Despite continuing investment in transport infrastructure, unfortunately we still stand for the goals and wishes we have set ourselves. Our roads and railway links are in very poor condition, even more, instead of projects such as the construction of the second track and the third development axis, which some in our society have built so important, deliberately disrupting and blocking. Only the third development axis and the second track will you not put us on a map of countries with transport infrastructure that are well-designed will much more need to be done. In Slovenia we will have to think differently in the field of transport infrastructure as well as in the field of transport links. The future of transport infrastructure in Slovenia, in our view, in sustainable mobility. We will have to invest much more in rail infrastructure than society and the country, but increasingly we will have to adapt our road infrastructure to the trends that are taking place with us in the world. The financial resources to be allocated to the proposed fund for transport infrastructure, in our view, should not be entirely earmarked for regular maintenance only, but should be earmarked primarily for new investments and projects that will modernise and channel our project infrastructure towards sustainable and carbon-free mobility, while at the same time putting us side by side with the countries to which we still like to compare ourselves. We welcome and assess in the Group of Social Democrats the solutions and objectives of the proposed law that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u176	Your Honor! The establishment of the so-called infrastructure fund is not a new idea. Several infrastructure ministers have already thought about setting up the Fund. The reason for this is completely simple and clear: to provide the necessary resources for investment and investment maintenance of transport infrastructure. This was also the opinion of previous ministers. Also among them was former Minister of Infrastructure Alenka Bratušek, and we are asked at this point why she did not propose such a proposal at the time of her ministry. Despite the fact that she had been married for a long time, the Ministry of Infrastructure ran for a year and a half. Today, three months after the end of her term of office, her parliamentary group did not submit to the legislative procedure the Budget Fund Act for investments in appropriate infrastructure. The draft law provides for the establishment of a specific Infrastructural Fund for an indefinite period to be financed from six sources of financing: an annual road transport vehicle duty, a state part of the port Koper concession fee, an extraordinary transport refund, a charge for cancelled vehicles, a fee for the use of passenger safety facilities and a 2 per cent value added tax per year. Of these, five sources of financing come from transport infrastructure, this does not apply to value added tax. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we find that the set of funding resources as foreseen by the proposed law is not considered because it relates in particular to the additional value tax mentioned above. When we talk about a specific dedicated infrastructure fund, we need to assume that the main sources come from the use and burden of transport infrastructure. In her opinion, the Government also pointed to this. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that such interventions on the field of tax policy are not appropriate at present. As a result of the Covid-19 epidemic, the country is in a precarious situation, which also has a major impact on tax policy. It has been clear for many years that we do not have enough budgetary money for all the desires and needs in the field of transport infrastructure. It is also clear that our road and rail network is in very poor condition and is actually getting worse from year to year. As investments and maintenance are slowed down due to insufficient resources, costs also increase. Not only the cost of investment, but also the cost of the economy and the population. That is why, of course, the establishment of such a dedicated fund makes sense and is indeed welcome, but in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we do not think that the proposal for a law in the form proposed at present is appropriate. For we believe that solutions that interfere with the field of tax policy, which can be misleading, must come from the Government and must be coordinated with all stakeholders. Finally, the current Minister of Infrastructure has already announced the establishment of a specific infrastructure fund that would operate [[noise in the hall]] Outside the budget, and I'd be quoted on the stock market.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u177	Please don't disturb the pay phone when he's talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u178	According to him, it is a fund that the State would place through concession in external management in the long term. Since we do not want the situation from 2014, when the lack of funds required to rebuild partially closed multiple bridges on state roads, we hope that Minister Jernej Vrtovac will present a concrete bill to the public as soon as possible. As it is said, we will not support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party in the budget fund for investment in transport infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by the Cigler Wish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u180	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Today we have before us the Law on the Budget Fund for Investment in Transport Infrastructure, which represents an important segment of our work for the future and it is good to talk about it and decide on it. This is a matter that the National Assembly has been needing for quite some time in its mandate, which it has been spending for two years now, somewhere, because it is aware that these are important development issues, and in particular the things that the existing Government has been exposed to in recent Crown laws, that this is an economic start-up and also a synergistic response. We are fully aware of this in Levica. The introduction to the draft law that we are considering today begins with the statement that the country is ahead of a severe test. Again, this is supposed to be a major economic crisis that will or will occur after the outbreak of the new coronavirus. And in Levica we agree that we are facing a severe test, not just Slovenia, but the whole world. But this severe test is not just an economic crisis caused by a month-long epidemic, this severe test is in particular global warming. And in this case, the current economic crisis is only dripping into the sea. The unbridled burning of fossil fuels has led us to the point where we need to take all the most urgent measures to stop the rise of global temperature below 1.5 degrees Celsius in view of the time before the industrial revolution. And essentially, transport is one of the main sources of greenhouse gas emissions in Slovenia and also one of the largest sources of CO2 emissions. In 2017, there were 5 thousand 541 kilotons of CO2 emissions in Slovenia. With this, traffic was the largest single source of CO2 in us. And the reduction of CO2 in transport requires substantial investment from the country in sustainable mobility and transport infrastructure, as proposed by the fund's proponents. The first one was ten years old, the first one was neglected for decades, and in particular as a result of the considerable investment in road infrastructure in the construction of transport infrastructure, thereby promoting the use of passenger vehicles. Thus, between 1994 and 2015, more than €5.5 billion were built and invested in motorways, and only 1.7 billion or three times less in rail infrastructure. At city and municipality level, the transport development policy during this period was the same as at country level. Cities were planned to be as friendly as possible, of course, to the car and politics convinced us that this allowed greater mobility and faster travel, and more comfortable travels, and in fact the streets of our nests from year to year, were more crowded with cars, there was less pleasant association, less safe and, in particular, driving and health. And such spatial development has led us to a vicious circle of sheetwork and has made public passenger traffic poor. The current situation is unsustainable, both from the point of view of environmental protection, health and transport safety, the outcome of this situation requires huge investment in transport infrastructure. That's what the proponents are right about. Most of us agree. The problem is how we imagine sources of financing, what infrastructure, and where and how we would like to build all of this. These are key questions to be answered before we decide to throw more than a quarter of a billion euros in investment in transport infrastructure each year. The bill will, however, say that there is already a social consensus on projects and investments and that it is intended to be achieved. For example, the law under consideration refers to the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030, adopted by our National Assembly. But this resolution is not the product of any social consensus, nor is it the result of some professional debate on what transport infrastructure this country has in order to minimise CO2 emissions in transport and, on top of that, to ensure affordable and time-effective public transport, while at the same time increasing the mobility of residents and residents in the country. [[Incomprehensible]] The resolution is, like many other acts adopted by our National Assembly, mainly the result of lobbying, various lobbying capital in Slovenia, domestic and foreign. Thus, this resolution for the period 2016 to 2030 provides for a total of €7.7 billion in investment in road infrastructure, of which €4.7 billion in motorway construction. The railway infrastructure, which has already been neglected and discarded in the past, is interesting, on the side track, according to the track, for the same period investment of only €3.4 billion, or more than half as much as for roads, will be accounted for by only one third of the planned assets, from Divaca to Kopra, 27 kilometres of the second track. For sustainable mobility, the resolution foresees only poor €260 million for the entire planned period. In addition to the resolution itself, it is also problematic how the ruling class, the ruling coalition, implements certain projects in it. So last year we were able to witness the pressure after the early start of the expansion of the Ljubljana bypass. This is a more than 100 million project, which in no way solves traffic congestion in the main city of the country, but will only increase them further. This was done under the Minister of Infrastructure, Alenko Bratušek, despite the fact that, even in the resolution mentioned above, it clearly states that the bypass only spreads after all measures in public passenger transport, in particular the upgrading of railway lines, would prove insufficient and to reduce the volume of road transport required. Despite the fact that none of the right measures in this area have yet been taken, preparations for the expansion of the Ljubljana bypass have now begun intensively, are continuing and the future is waiting for us for results. Despite the talks and the reminders. And even when it is reached for a specific consensus project, on its construction, as was the case for the third development axis project, it is irrelevant where and how it will be built. The objective of building infrastructure projects must always be pursued in order to minimise environmental impact, to maximise the protection of agricultural land that provides and enables us to provide food supply, cost efficiency and so on. Unfortunately, all of this has been transported too often in the past, imports of the current planned routes on some parts of the third axis, but they suggest that this will be the case in the future. The law we are dealing with does not represent, address any of the problems that have been raised so far merely and merely foresees the establishment of a specific budget fund for investment in transport infrastructure and sets out the sources of revenue of this fund. Some of these are disputed in themselves because for money for the new infrastructure fund, it is taken from an integrated budget where health, social, culture, education and other services are financed. Two of the six planned sources, the inflows to the new infrastructure budget fund, are the annual road traffic vehicle duty and the concession fee in Luka Koper, d.d., which belongs to the Republic of Slovenia, are already spent on purpose and used on purpose after the Act on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure. This is not the case for all other sources and therefore they do not hold the applicant’s claim that the adoption of the law does not affect public finances. In view of the adoption of the law, at least 75 million holes will be dug up on the basis of the conversion of 2% of VAT points from the integrated budget. Then there is a refund for extraordinary transport along main and regional roads, charges for decommissioning of the vehicle, a fee for the use of maritime safety facilities. Interestingly, nowhere is the source that we do not exploit in this Slovenia, since 2016 the legal violations of Article 15d of the Rail Transport Act, which says that the charging of charges on the tracks of Slovenian railways has made it mandatory to lose billions of euros. I repeat, billions of euros. Almost the pre-budget value of the second track project. What are the governments doing, what is this government doing? And another final argument that speaks against acceptance, as far as the usage is concerned, of course. The last argument against the adoption of the law is, however, anti-Korona laws and the last amendment of the Nature Conservation Act, which for a year and a half prevented the participation of environmental and natural protection NGOs in administrative and judicial proceedings related to the issuance of building permits, environmental agreements, etc. In addition, administrative barriers to investors in these projects were also cut, in short, more room was given to capital to destroy in particular. In order for some of these projects to be established now, these are those in the field of transport infrastructure, yet a specific budget fund, which would be powered, among other things, by resources now in the integrated budget, would, in our opinion, be a knee shot. On the basis of all the above, we will abstain from voting on the law in the first reading. As long as the law goes through first reading and continues to be amended in order to specify exactly which infrastructure projects can be financed from it, that these projects will only contribute to secret mobility, to strengthening public passenger transport, so that they will not be unnecessarily destroyed by the environment of primary agricultural land, and to the extent that the proponents adequately complement the expected financial effects and ensure that the establishment of a special budget fund does not become absorbed in social, health, culture, education expenditure, to the extent that all of this will be satisfied in further consideration of the adoption of the law, we will not end this law and will undermine it. [[Incomprehensible]] Finally, I would only say this, and this is procedural when I did not call back earlier when the government representative and the Secretary of State came and talked about such important matters as this one today, the Republic of Slovenia and infrastructure projects, it is his task to tell the government's opinion on how he wants to act on these projects and reduce congestion, but not to give to Members and Members who want positive progress here a lesson in how the National Assembly should operate. I'm sorry, this is not your job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the proposal for a law on the budget fund for investment in transport infrastructure submitted by a group of Members in the parliamentary procedure is to provide, in addition to the existing dedicated revenue already earmarked for investment and investment maintenance of transport infrastructure, other additional and reliable resources to finance the necessary investments in transport infrastructure. Thus, the applicant proposes the establishment of a so-called Fund for Investment and the investment maintenance of transport infrastructure for an indefinite period of time. In addition to the annual road transport duty and the concession fee of Luka Koper, which belongs to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, compensation shall be included among the sources of the fund for extraordinary transport on main and regional roads, charges for cancelled vehicles, charges for the use of maritime safety facilities and two additional VAT points per year. The funds are to be used in accordance with the national transport development programme of the Republic of Slovenia and the commitment to the burden of the infrastructure fund in line with the national budget development programme plan. In New Slovenia, we support every effort to provide additional financial resources for investment and investment in transport infrastructure, as the state of buildings and roads on the state road network is in very poor condition and is unfortunately deteriorating year after year. This is certainly due to small and irrational investment, large centralisation of decision-making, organisational bargaining and a number of bureaucratic obstacles. As a result of the years of neglect of maintenance and investment in the state road network, the state of roads has deteriorated significantly and consequently has an impact on traffic safety. In New Slovenia, we still agree, and we will also strive to do so, that the means for maintaining and developing road infrastructure should be strengthened. The existing system of dedicated allocations collected by road transport needs to be checked and fully restored to the reconstruction and development of road infrastructure. However, for other forms of transport infrastructure, in particular rail infrastructure, appropriate solutions must be found, including through the award of concessions for the construction and long-term use of infrastructure. We are pleased that the Ministry of Infrastructure, too, is aware of the accelerated deterioration of road infrastructure and understand that there is a need to provide additional financial resources to enable medium and long-term planning and investment maintenance of road infrastructure. In New Slovenia, we agree with the Government's view that the key objective to be pursued in identifying dedicated resources for investment in transport infrastructure is that the main sources come from the use and burden of transport infrastructure and that they are, in whole or in part, intended for investment in transport infrastructure with the aim of maintaining or improving it. In any event, the drafter has a good intention of providing additional sources of funding to improve transport infrastructure. However, the proposal to include 2 percentage points of VAT per annum among the resources of the Fund is not appropriate, as this is not a source that would arise from the use and burden of transport infrastructure. Therefore, Members of New Slovenia do not believe that the law is suitable for further consideration. However, we expect that at the Ministry of Infrastructure they will find additional sources of financing for the maintenance and rehabilitation of road infrastructures, and that they will pay particular attention to the absorption of European Union funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Bandelli will be the last to present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u184	Dear Secretary of State! Let me remind you that this is the law written since the last Master's degree, mag. Alenke Bratusek. Yes, let the Members and your constituents judge, if you vote ours to be unfit for further consideration and ours, still yours, put in. At least ask the president about copyright. Dear colleagues! We have before us a bill that can finance infrastructure projects, our roads and railways in the long term and strategically. If, as a country for the road network, we were still quite concerned, we had completely forgotten our railways. In the last financial crisis, when we were already on pensions and salaries, it was difficult to secure money, we completely abandoned infrastructure. In the last four years from 2016 to 2019, we have managed to provide significantly more financial resources for infrastructure projects, which is the only right thing. Good infrastructure is the first condition for road and rail safety. Moreover, state investment is also a generator of economic growth in the country, and now that the country has fallen into a severe recession, 8% of the decline in economic activity is forecast to be very important that we have a stable source of funding for infrastructure projects. At its first meeting on 13 March this year, the government of Janez Janša reduced the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure by € 130 million. Our Minister, Alenka Bratušek, would never allow this because she is aware of the importance of investment in transport infrastructure. Even more so, as a minister, she put on the table the idea of establishing a so-called infrastructure fund. To explain what it is. This is not some new legal person where we would provide new services to the electorate. This is only a special account within the state budget, where precisely certain money is flowing, which can only be spent on investment in transport infrastructure. It is said that the amount of money for infrastructure projects is not dependent on the Minister for Finance every time, but is predetermined so it is also possible to plan infrastructure projects in a very precise, long-term manner. The draft law clearly sets out the resources for this infrastructure fund, namely the annual road traffic vehicle duty, the port Koper concession fee, the emergency transport refund, the decommissioned vehicle duty, the charges for the use of passenger safety facilities and two percentage points of VAT, amounting to around 270 million per year. In particular, I would like to point out our proposal to provide two percentage points of VAT in this infrastructure fund. In the last crisis, which was indeed a severe financial crisis, the government of Alenka Bratušek, as a temporary measure, took a VAT hike from 20 to 22%. No government later put an end to this temporary measure. Moreover, the SDS party submitted at least three proposals to reduce the VAT rate back to 20%. Now that you are in power, of course, you have quickly forgotten that, so today I remind you of this. Germany is also temporarily reducing its VAT in this crown of recession. Our proposal is slightly different. We suggest that instead of reducing the VAT rate that you have promised people, we devote these two percentage points to infrastructure projects in our country and thus do two good things, help to raise economic growth and increase safety on our roads and railways. According to our assessment, this is more than a good reason for our proposal for the Infrastructure Fund Act to receive your support today. I would like to thank everyone who supports this idea of ensuring a stable and stable source of funding for infrastructure projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u185	Thank you very much. This concludes with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members on the proposal for a law. First, the proposer made a statement. Mr. Reich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u186	Thus, first of all, I would like to respond to words that could also be called slander. Article, the law was drafted by Mrs Alenka Bratušek as Minister and was later completed with us Members. The law has 5 articles, of which two are transitional provisions. One of these means when one law expires, i.e. the 2010 law and when a new law enters into force. So we're talking about three articles that are mags. Alenka Bratušek wrote and later complemented me as a delegation. This law in the National Assembly has not been tabled by anyone for 25 years, and remember, also Minister Vrtovac said at the hearing, please give me a month or two time to define the proposed infrastructure fund, and to these five articles, of which the three are actually only substantive, have not been defined at that time, but it has happened that the Government, at its first meeting of the Ministry of Infrastructure, has taken away 130 million euros, and in each of the questions sent by the Minister, we are always embarrassed by the continuation of the planned infrastructure projects, which we know are key to the continuation of economic activity. Remember, in the previous financial crisis, investments are practically dead, and this cannot happen today, so we want a specific budget fund to be set up, in which funds will be available to finance the construction of the necessary infrastructure in line with the six-year road map. And this is our wish, and we have foreseen funding sources, including 2% of the VAT point, which we know today that if the country went down to 20%, this would not be known in the final price for the user, so we propose that these 2% points that were raised at the time, never reduced, are deliberately intended to maintain and build the necessary road and rail infrastructure, and that is to say that the logical proposal is also in the light of this economic crisis. However, I must say, I also respond to the words of my colleague from Nova Slovenije, Minister of Interpretation, already thinking about the infrastructure fund. As a member of the National Assembly, I am appalled to hear about certain ideas from the breakfast of the American Chamber of Commerce on Private Infrastructure Funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Now he gets the first word, Mr Željko Cigler, and Mr Jožef Horvat is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government. I have already told the Left that this is an important issue and important issues in the debate of the National Assembly. I have warned, and I particularly want to talk about this. For a very important source for our infrastructure facilities, especially for railways, this is the Rail Transport Act, which clearly provides in Article 15d for the use of public rail infrastructure, the carrier pays the operator the charges. In Slovenia, this is on behalf of, instead of the Republic of Slovenia on its behalf to Slovenian Railways, and the use is intended to cover the costs of carrying out the activities of the operator. Neither the past government nor the current government are making this legal provision, which has been adopted in the National Assembly and binds governments, not touching it, nor implementing it, and in this sense acting in the gathering of this source, the functioning of the previous governments, as well as the current one, unless it changes it as soon as possible or immediately, is illegal. In fact, the second track will be fully financed by public funds alone, which is from the collected revenues collected by law and these are public funds, and is being built to increase transit to the icy countries, three times as planned. In doing so, transit will not pay a fee for the track we are building with our public funds, and this is in particular transit to Hungary, Austria. Although the payment of this, as I said earlier, of the use of track, “tirnine”, is recorded in Article 15b of the Rail Transport Act. And, the country and the Slovenian Railways should collect this, in real terms, 250 million euros a year. I have already, in the introduction, on behalf of the Left, in so far as the “tirnin” according to this article is charged, and I am taking the data from the symposia that have been carried out in the Chamber of the State Council, in this respect, by the Engineering Association of Slovenia, so that you will not think that I am inventing this data from where I come from, and that it has been going here since 2016, when this matter is supposed to be carried out, in accordance with European guidelines, for a billion euros of money. Look out, it's not a joke around here anymore. These are the resources we can use to bring these infrastructure projects to life. Instead of 250 million, we take 9.5 million euros for use. That's what I said in a few questions, the previous Infrastructure Minister. Significantly more than that, we will then return to foreign carriers, Austrians, Germans, Hungary, because trains have delays or accidents — for example, the spilling of kerosene. Thus, the use is intended to maintain our railways, including investments, and thus lays down the law of the European Union. The maintenance of railways in Slovenia is about 120 million a year and the renewal is about 200 million, we are paying from the state budget, and we add only 9.5 million from the utility, as I said and I also said how much it should be collected. Practically, free use of Slovenian railways for freight transit, abnormally encourages freight forwarders, foreign countries, of course, and ours, for the use of Slovenian railways. It is free of charge, as it is built by the state, from the resources of taxpayers, which we therefore have less for health, education, homes for the elderly, culture, social, new jobs, support for the economy and increased traffic in Luka Koper makes possible greater profits for the shareholders of Luke Koper. Indeed, this port is in 30 % private ownership and thus, by not charging the charges on the track, the State is incurring budgetary resources to private shareholders. And in the case of charging the prescribed and normal use, traffic would not move on the road, because there must be a corresponding toll and, therefore, by not collecting the user's fees, we subsidise the budgets of our competitors, competing economies, that is Hungary and Austria, and I ask the policy in Slovenia how Austrians and Hungarians return this gallant service to Slovenian politicians. We could collect 250 million, but we can collect 9.5 million. This is paid by citizens, citizens of Slovenia. Every train that drives and this is the most, now, described data that drives through Ljubljana, through Tivoli, to Hungary or Austria, on average takes from the pockets of citizens and citizens, 10,000 euros, because the government does not charge him the charges. Daily, it's 90 trains a year – please, if you're doing your own calculations. And according to information that followed the spilling of kerosene, an increasing proportion of transit, including transit of petroleum derivatives and harmful substances that are transported, along an inappropriate and non-maintained route from Kopra to Divaca, will obviously remain until the second track occurs, seriously endangers environmental, protective conditions, our Istrians and the inhabitants there, and even more their water resources. As a result, we can get to the point where we start collecting this resource, which we have on our hands and could legally collect, soon also to the means to restore the railways from our use, to restore the existing unmaintained Koper-Divic line, or to devote additional funds to the new second track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the next word and Mr Vojko Starović is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker, dear colleagues and colleagues! I was a little freaked out at the beginning because I heard a loud scream coming out of my desk, and I don't know why. It is also an obvious statement to the Secretary of State that this is a matter of slander, but the Secretary of State, what he said to me, was very surprising, and at that time I also obtained a comparison of the law that the Ministry, led by Alenka Bratušek, wrote and the law that we have on the bench today and signed, our colleague and four colleagues of the SAB Group. The Ministry is another company, if you want, like the National Assembly, and ownership also intellectually, if you want, you know exactly who it is. You can imagine that the New Slovenia Group would steal this law that was created, steal it, that's the right word, alienate that text, written by the Ministry under the leadership of Alenka Bratušek, and now put it into the national assembly procedure. It'd be a scream and a scream. I understand that the services of the National Assembly and the leadership of the National Assembly could not have known this until this point of the agenda began and the Secretary of State warned and had to warn, colleagues and colleagues, the graph is frapantine. What is wise is a literal copy of signs from the Ministry of Infrastructure, the percentage is 99.2%. What is orange, however, is 0.8% of all characters and means that it is the author of this orange part of SAB. This is also an introduction to VAT. We could stop this meeting now, but let's say we agreed at the College of the President of the National Assembly, but I will not propose that. But that's what the Secretary of State had to say. If someone stole Mr. Brickler's work or his poetry collection, I don't know if he's a poet or anything, Mr. Brickler, I apologize, my dear colleague, to mention you, I'm sure he'd be looking for justice in court. Let's move on. I hope because I've known Alenka for a long time and I trusted her, I hope something hasn't gone away from the M.I.A. I hope not. Now, I can also show the text, anything yellow or orange, if you want, is overwritten and everything is orange, more precisely, 29.8 or two percent, 99.2% is overwritten. What is more, now in the explanation of the articles, Article 2 says, 2 percentage points of VAT, in round, about 270 million per year. That's a mistake. The budget adopted by this National Assembly for 2020 plans tax revenue from VAT, 4.19 billion, 2% of which is rounded to 84 million or I was wrong. I know I didn't. Okay, the idea of a budget fund to form money for transport infrastructure is probably more. These are essentially budget lines, which are then somehow aggregated and called a budget fund, and this is at the annual level so much and so much money, from the budget, strictly from the budget and from this we finance transport infrastructure. An idea like that, but it's definitely not the best. We should probably take a little look at the comparable countries around us, and I know that the Ministry of Labour is also doing this. Colleague Reich Nova Slovenija has never said privatisation of public transport infrastructure. Look at our election program or you won't find the basics. You called for privatisation earlier. Yes, they're for privatisation because privatisation is a process of finding responsible owners, but as far as transport infrastructure is concerned, you've made a mistake here. I suggest it doesn't make sense for us to look at what we've written down here right now. Any statement made by the Minister at breakfast or anywhere else has certainly not gone in this direction - I was not there - privatisation, but we can certainly open a debate or form a fund - any budgetary, non-budgetary, outside budget - and ask ourselves whether private capital is also prohibited in this fund. [[Incomprehensible]] The ownership - once again - of the infrastructure will remain the property of the country. The country will not sell motorways, fast roads and rail infrastructure. However, my assessment is, given that there are economic crises and other crises at all times, and that transport infrastructures - thank God - are more every year, which means more and more maintenance costs, and I think that in this economic growth or not at all, but the best of the 3% economic growth, I doubt that we will be able to form enough resources to ensure the needs of citizens and citizens throughout the transport infrastructure, when we talk about infrastructure here, there is still a lot more along and not just railways and roads. Once again, I trusted my colleague Alenka Bratušek very much, 2004-2008 we worked together, but if I don't know if I want to pressure my colleague Bojan Podkrajek, who I saw that he has shown you how much maintenance the road infrastructure might have also happened and also a new construction took place during the ministry of Alenka Bratušek, then I am afraid that you will blush. My colleague Miha Prevc has already told me that we will not support this marriage. Minister Jernej Vrtovec has kept his promise now, so there has finally been an opportunity for him to define himself for this fund, because there was no law before. It is true that a little more time has passed, please, for understanding was the epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Vojko Starović has the next word, Mr Jože Lenart is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Starovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Madam President. At the outset, I would also like to be involved in this debate on the authorship of the law, because it means something. Then every marriage that's been filed shouldn't put the amendments in there, because then we'd be in violation of the authorship. These are things, laws, regulations that are being created, developed, added, changed, and I think we're having a hard time talking about some things here. How many times did the NSIs, as the opposition, put under the previous Government, laws that have been repeated since before have been passed on to Parliament by the NSIs in such a way that I do not think this is a real topic. How many times I've listened to all the debate today, the presentations all show good little things, the third are wrong, but everyone finds that we actually need one of those laws because it's understandable. Infrastructure, whatever it is, but it is railway or is also maritime, if I say port, are projects that are being built for a very long time. Since we've been preparing, we've seen what we've had on these preparations, and it's still not glass, but to make it work, you've got to have the finances. And to make this easier to plan, and to develop and maintain, it is necessary to have resources to do so, not to make decisions every time, either way. So I think that the infrastructure fund and in the world we have these funds very often allows some continuous development of activities. I was in traffic myself. Well, then I went to the hotel business, but in traffic at the time I saw, when Slovenia became independent, it became, I even have at some symposium, international, also my presentation under the title of the Land of Furmans and Birts [[?]] . How I see the vision of the development of Slovenia. If I look at history, the company was the first accumulation of money, the capital created by Slovenian food, in the cities of sawmills, the industry was mainly in German hands, in Slovenian it was a company. And this was the first accumulation that started, the development money, and we also fill in at least in terms of modern company and transport, including the ship. The reed, when it was once our own or common, was Austro-Hungarian, because perhaps the Slovenian language at the time was spoken by bats as much as the German or Italian or even more in this international conglomerate, which was Trieste, was also, were our sailors. There was talk in Slovenia at the time, Trieste is a wallet of Slovenia. The fact that this business is laufal, the company has been associated with this transport and I still believe, still, at a time when we lack some visions, some sense where we're going, we had some vision to make a country of our own, it's great and wonderful. /incomprehensible/ In Europe and we have succeeded, even in NATO, that we have joined, say, under one roof, that we do not, that we are more secure, have also done wonderfully and then we have run out of things. Now we've got some health, some controversy, uno, third, we're missing a vision again, but the vision should be, too, the exploitation of the geotransmitter's position. We are on the southern banana in Europe, because you see how traffic is going if we don't get it on the railways and on the roads, if we don't fix it, it's not good. And we have the north, the south, too, the direction. We are actually the closest area, the most developing two parts of the world. One is Asia, China, one is Europe, one is the largest market, one is Asia and one is Asia. We're connected, if we don't do this here, and if we're thinking about putting this wealth in our hands, this position in others' hands, it's a little bit like that, it's incomprehensible. But we've already put the airport in the hands of others, and we've also wanted to put the port in the hands of others, that's developmental pure stupidity. That's bullshit. I'm so strongly convinced that this is our fortune, this is our gold, this is our ore, this position, and if we don't make something out of it, it's really wrong. [[…]] Look, we need to know, too. When we gained independence, I accompanied a bit of this macro- but also, at the company I had to monitor, and I also included myself, see what happened when Slovenia gained its independence. It was a much worse, unbecomingly worse thing, we lost our markets, without everything when we fell into the matter, how to know, money had to be made. Now, if we have to make our money to make Europe collapse, we are incompetent. Because I don't know where else we have this knowledge and that I would say it in this bank of Slovenia or anywhere that we could put it together. We've abandoned this concept. We don't have banks. We don't have any more. I mean, we have to think differently, strategically long-term. And we must not leave this infrastructure of ours, we must develop it further and we must provide the right resources. I'll do it again. We went into traffic. What happened? We built the roads, right after the war, we went to build it after the conquest, and we built it. Construction of multiple effects huge. More than 50% in those days since 93 went through, I calculated there, more than 50% of the investments went into construction because there were roads, uno, third. This was doing the job, and we had a very high growth rate back then. However, we had 17 to 27% of our debt there. We'll be in 80 now. I don't know what we're doing. If we leave this area, and it was one initiative to give, you all know that this infrastructure is needed, that we must build. I mean, we can make this law, if I know what's going on, we just have to get things going. When I say we're a country of burti [[?]] And that's how you have to understand, innkeepers, all who come to us are satisfied, stay, tourism is growing, appreciate our country, the country's green, friendly people, and now we've got another bunch of Michelin stars and so on. You can see we're great at gastronomy, too. And we have great people, but we have nothing but politics. This is 90% of the time we've been fighting, not finding each other, not holding hands, not looking for each other, but just looking for weaknesses in each other. That's not working. It's making us miserable and destroying us. I think this matter, this marriage is very welcome if anyone, because that's why we all have to get our heads together and amend it, what seems to be wrong. But we need this thing bloody. Believe me, our destiny, our beginning was a furman and a burti, and this is also our future. But I also think about real company transfer of capital, banking, insurance, everything that's connected to the terror, because industry isn't what's going to keep us going. Bo, it's important, but this is we were furmen and burti and let's keep it good, modern, advanced. [[…]] And this will be best for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart has the following word, Mr Predrag Baković is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. Finally, dear colleagues and colleagues, this fund for investment in transport infrastructure should have been in place yesterday. See, 10 years of stagnation of major infrastructure investments is certainly known for lagging behind the faster development of the Slovenian economy, agriculture, tourism and wider. Both neighbouring countries and European countries are ahead of us in this development. Thus, we have already become an obstacle to foreign investors in this strategic position. For Luka Koper, which has no real development potential without modern infrastructure through Slovenia. We need a real development strategy, we need a regional link, and the third development axis from Austria to Croatia has been delayed for a decade. We need a long-term strategy to develop a modern rail cross that will relieve road freight transport, which will follow the objectives of decarbonisation, which is also one of our strategic objectives that we need to achieve. We need a faster response to infrastructure investments, it is not logical to spend 15 years to include investment in space, to obtain documentation, infertile debate. The world around us is moving very fast. Look, China has caught up with us in 15 years, and it's overtaken us, not just us, Europe and the world, three times. At such a pace, she will crush us in the future in the true sense of the word. Very important, we need balanced investment in transport infrastructure after years. Why? This ensures the strength of the investment sector. We know what happened to construction companies and jobs after 2008, when these construction companies practically failed because the country literally let them down. Of course, we need additional resources that we are looking for as a needle in a haystack, at least so far. We are not aware of the fact that, with each year's delay in development, including transport infrastructure, we are lagging behind others and are closing our doors. The partners are heading in a different direction. That's what's happening to us, and it's easy, we're looking at it. Investment in development is, of course, on a long-term basis, so we must not delay. A successful entrepreneur somehow realizes when he invests in development, he can tighten his belt and then, of course, he gets paid, and all successful entrepreneurs have gone this way. Many developed countries are much more indebted, but it is important what they are in charge of. They have certainly been in charge of development areas where transport infrastructure is particularly important, which brings investment, increases the size of the economy, lower economic costs, lower costs and the safety of the population, by travelling, and thus, of course, overall competitiveness on the world market, and if you are in charge of the right purpose, even to a greater extent, it is easier to repay the debt if these scales of economy, competitiveness and results, growth of results, of course, enable them to do so. We are in a time of economic and broader crisis, which is also caused by Covid-19, and it is even more important that we devote more resources to development, which provide jobs and provide taxes for all state treasury. See, in the last crisis, after 2008, we missed this potential for development investments in transport infrastructure, and we have also experienced the biggest drop in Europe – indicators show this and I do not want to miss something similar this time. If we do this in a transparent, fair and efficient way, we will be able to justify all of this, so to speak, the resources that we will use to do so, whatever we can, but, of course, to find the right resources that will not deprive existing users, of course, it is also important. Look, I really want the bill, including with well-intentioned additions, to see the light at the shortest possible time, and I hope that what my colleague Horvat Joseph has warned that this is not an obstacle that would stop this bill, but that we will upgrade it wisely and make the most of it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Proposer, Mr. Reich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u196	So, now there have been four debaters, and I would like to comment again. One percentage point of VAT is €135 million, two percentage points are €270 million, and I would also like to respond to the chart previously shown. This graph confirms, cake, doesn't it, that none of this was written by the current ministerial team, but only Minister Alenka Bratušek, then Minister Alenka Bratušek, along with us, Members. However, I would also like to touch on the first point of the text of the law that we are a little more substantive. The law has – as I said before – 5 articles, of which two are transitional provisions. Article 1 speaks of the law governing the provision of dedicated means for the execution of investments and investment maintenance of transport infrastructure, and the budget fund for investments and investment maintenance of transport infrastructure and, as it says, we have foreseen in it 5 resources; that is, an annual levy on the use of vehicles in road transport, a concession fee for Luke Koper, a refund for extraordinary transport on main and regional roads, a charge for cancelled vehicles, a charge for the administration of passenger safety facilities and 2 percentage points of VAT. History teaches us that, in the absence of a specific budget fund, non-investment funds in the current year have been spent, to the extent that they wish to be carried over to the next financial year, that this is a special debate with the Minister of Finance and also the ZUJF has so far been very low proven already by means of earmarked resources, and in the SAB, we have proposed this dedicated budget fund precisely so that investments in our transport infrastructure, which includes roads and railways, can take place in a planned, smooth manner. And even if you look, I will say, the last event of the necessary, i.e. the last measures of the government necessary to deal with the COVID-19 epidemic, you see that the Government has reached out to the intended means of infrastructure for dealing with this epidemic, and we, in the message of the sending group, wanted to come to the Minister and Slovenia so that these investments, which are necessary for the smooth maintenance and development of our country, can take place smoothly regardless of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath thinks he was misunderstood. You have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I said that according to the 2020 budget, which plans VAT tax revenues of €4.19 billion, it follows that 2% of these are rounded to 84 million. However, if 2% of VAT is 270 million, then all VAT revenues must be more than 13 billion and the Nap budget is what? [[…]] Ten billion. And there's one more thing. Now, Madam Vice President, it is not that simple who is the author. We can find out exactly who the author of this text is during this point, but it must be the ministry, not the one, and I know which person wrote it, but it wasn't Mrs Alenka. Let's get this straight. I didn't make any noise. We could break this meeting, believe me. What if you understand better, comrade Reich, but what if the Minister is a magician? Alenka Bratušek gave this law to write, outsourcesat, some foreign legal institution, for example, for 10,000 euros. Then what? Now you understand, but you don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Reich, you don't have a word yet. Thank you for that school replica, Mr. Horvat. Mr. Reich, do you want a procedural proposal? You'll talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u200	When I talk about the need for the Rules of Procedure, here we are, here we are, so I call on my esteemed colleague Horvath to use the facts in his debate rather than insinuating them. So, this is in our case, it's the unquestionably authorizing work of the Mags. Alenka Bratušek, who has been complemented by us in our parliamentary group, and I ask that he does not deceive us in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u201	Mr Reich, this was not a procedural proposal, but a substantive controversy with Mr Horvato. But as a proposalr, you can get a word at this point at any time, so I suggest that you simply come forward as a proposalr for a second time. But the difference is, your time is running out, so I mentioned it. We continue the debate. Mr Predrag Baković has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u202	President, thank you very much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! So today we are listening to a debate on this bill. I must say that transport infrastructure in Slovenia is not in good condition or is as problematic and as difficult as road and of course also rail, but I am pleased with one fact: I come from Kočev as you already know that after 52 years in Kočev, on October 1st, a passenger train will come and, in fact, this is an extraordinary news, an extraordinary event which in some way brings something good to this place. However, I must say that there are far behind activities relating to the 3rd a development axis, and it is also appropriate that certain activities begin as soon as possible in this area, i.e. on the Ljubljana-Petrina road or Ljubljana-Kočevje road. Of course, there was also a bypass and a solution by Škofljica and Rudnik as well as the bypasses of Velika Lašče-Ribnica and Kočevje. Finally, proposals are also made to place emergency belts on this road on individual sections, one has been made, the proposals are still on, but we do not believe that some activities are currently running as they would like to. The road is loaded, I will say, with freight traffic, especially on this road the wood has been transported for many years, and I must say that if we had counted all the value of this wood, we could probably have already had a golden road, but I must say that these trucks even up to, not only against Ljubljana, even against Primorski, so across Cerknica, where they drive to Luka Koper, clearly do significant damage. [[Incomprehensible]] So, in fact, there has been a lot of talk lately about the fast road from Ljubljana to Kočev and I think it is really necessary to put this road into the state spatial plan, realizing that more than 2 000 people are streaming from these places to Ljubljana every day. Of course, we do not expect in some way the highway, which is probably never going to be, but we expect these updates to take place, such as the bypasses of Kočev, past the Ribnica and past the Great Lašča. And I think, because of all of these, I will say, the problems or expectations that we have, that this foundation fund is, in some ways, a good platform for solving the problem for these places, such as Kočevje, and not least that these investments are being channelled into these places. So, I will say, investments aimed at maintaining infrastructure, as well as new investments, as I mentioned earlier, bypasses and emergency belts. And I would clearly point out here that the financial resources from this proposed fund should therefore not be entirely earmarked only for regular maintenance, but it is extremely important that these funds are also earmarked primarily for new investments and projects that will modernise and channel this transport infrastructure towards some sustainable and carbon-free mobility. And that's why they mention [[?]] also in the Group of Social Democrats that the law is suitable for further consideration. And that we may get some ideas and suggestions during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The speaker now spoke first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u204	So, I saw that there was no colleague of Horvath, but there were still some questions after the text, and I would like to explain clearly. We're talking percentage points, not percentages. And one percentage point is about 135 million, two percentage points are about 270 million, and we're talking about these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has now joined the floor. Mr. Mihelich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u206	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. First of all, I would like to have just a few comments on those questions or initiatives put by individual Members, namely Mr Željko Cigler. Look, interfering with the work of the National Assembly, I have deliberately stressed that this is not my role, I do not want this, this is your jurisdiction, the standards of work in the National Assembly are set by you. Certainly not the Secretary of State, not the Secretary of State. However, I am obliged as a representative of the Ministry to warn when such acts are at stake. I hope that this will be as little as possible and that this was just one exception. Mr Bandelli mentioned, the author of this text was Alenka Bratušek himself. Nice, okay, I don't know what our professional colleagues did, but I can introduce them to you, even a very human or an expert who wrote the whole text. No problem, he's still working with us, good, hardworking, excellent expert. If I go give, Mr. Reich. The government took 130 million, it's true. The rights of spending of $130 million for the Ministry of Infrastructure have been withdrawn. Indeed, we are currently dealing with investment challenges and needs with problems. One of the key issues that we raised with Minister Vrtovac was to revive the economic cycle through construction in this crisis and crisis time to achieve the best possible and the fastest possible way out of the crisis. However, we cannot help but overlook the need for a number of emergency measures in the crisis to take money from somewhere quickly, and here I absolutely support the Government in that it was necessary in proportion to where these funds could have been collected across all ministries, but this is a matter of temporary withdrawal. There has not been a balance and we are also working here, and we hope that we will achieve the recovery of all funds plus something more so that we can increase this construction and investment cycle further. As far as different forms of infrastructure funds are concerned. True, the minister has repeatedly stressed, given some ideas, it's not that simple. 2. Article 2 of the Public Finance Act provides clearly for the link between the resources that fill the fund and the purpose for which the fund allocates it. Taking this into account, we can see that there is a rapid shortage of funding resources or that the replenishment of this fund becomes somewhat difficult at all, given that we must not subtract resources from the budget, especially from those that do not originate in the transport sector. Here remains one of the options for a fund where citizens, successful entrepreneurs, those who see in this personal opportunity, business or want to invest in such a fund can devote their money. Currently, the banks of Slovenian account owners have 20 billion money, why not put it in our funds, why not? Regarding 2TKK, project 2nd course of Divaca-Koper. It's not true that we're paying the taxpayers. The project is designed to pay itself in its lifetime through a transshipment fee, through a utility, through other charges arising from this service. Mr Baković third A development axis we know the problem is one of the focuss of our action. Of course, there's a big problem. The fact that things have stalled is certainly not within our mandate. Things have been going on for a long time, and we've been on them for the first three months. A special working group has been set up to implement individual partial actions on the third A development axis, pedestrian corridors, bonds, accelerated placements here we have already had a successful meeting at the Ministry of Environment and Space, where we will speed things up. The decision of the Government from the past should be repealed, which has prevented the installation of the Škofljica oblast. Here's a bunch of things that work on the third A development axis. We are in close contact with all the mayors, who also welcome our initiative. Here I would point out that the third A development axis from our side is being accelerated: pedestrian corridors, intersections, intersections, bypassing. We are looking at the biggest problem of the box from two points of view. There. What we can do right now - here we are looking for a solution right now - which has not been addressed by anyone in the past at all by the railway crossing on Škofljica. The second, third stage from Ljubljana Rudnik to Škofljica is also being speeded up and implemented. Here is the current infrastructure fund certainly there is no obstacle to not doing these projects, they are simply not prepared. In recent years, it has not been enough in this area to be able to implement this project only by providing funds. Of course, we absolutely agree that projects need to be implemented and provided with adequate transport safety and transport infrastructure development. These projects are really big, and in this light, of course, we are trying to obtain additional funds either as a budget fund as an outside budget fund, and we would also like to achieve continuity at the Ministry of Infrastructure. We can work, of course, because of the financial obstacles at the moment, we are a little limited, but I believe that we will be able to resolve this with the budget at the latest. At present, however, we have received about 25 million appropriations to increase the earmarked resources, thus mitigating this loss of 130 million in the short term. In short, we're actively involved in the subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Baković has the replica first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u208	Dear Secretary of State, it was not my intention to possibly get some sense of guilt that I blamed you for the state of being on the third A development axis, of course not. I have to say, I've been alerting you to this problem since I was in this building. And probably the predecessors warned before me. But things have stopped. I'm glad you recognize the problems and I'm glad that certain activities are being carried out, such as intersections, intersections and everything. However, we must say here honestly that these projects, which have been and have been carried out in the previous mandate, have also been carried out. So I don't have any criticism for your ministry, but I have high expectations. That was actually just my call for advance. It is clear that we will be happy with any progress that will take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u209	Thank you very much. And another replica, Mr. Brickler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, Mr Mihelič. I would just say this: the fact is that it is currently being paid when the second track is being built with credits, through grants or funds from the European Community, where the contributions are also from Slovenia, because if the grants are or will have to be paid in return for the loans they will receive. But here's what I'd like to say when you said that all the funds would come back because the users were paying. You haven't answered the random point and the question that's always been raised. Does the existing government intend to activate Article 15d, which is binding on it, which refers to the application of the Rail Transport Act? I said that this is a very large amount of money that is not being collected at the moment, or that we are paying rail infrastructure users more than they are giving us for our use. Does the existing government intend to activate Article 15d of the Rail Transport Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The proposer first made a statement. Here you go, Mr. Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u212	I would just like to say that, for the first time, the representatives of the government and the ministry have been publicly told in the National Assembly that it has been confirmed, so far only we Members have spoken, so the Ministry of Infrastructure has stopped spending 130 million euros. [[Incomprehensible]] This is the first time the Secretary of State has clearly confirmed this. And so, the Ministry's representative, as representatives of the Ministry, you made it clear today for the first time. I do not blame you for this being anything criminal, but we note the experience of 2008 when the investment crisis stopped. And that was harmful to the economy. In our parliamentary group, we want investments to be carried out smoothly during the crisis, so we have structured resources to ensure that this fund, which will be dedicated, exclusively dedicated and ensures the implementation of planned investments, can be maintained and maintained and upgraded within a 15-year period. It should be said that all relevant economic institutions are forecasting a fall in economic activity in Slovenia by 8%. And with that, they're actually going to be less revenue. You predict a clear cut in spending rights, including after the rebalancing. The budget fund is one such measure to ensure the smooth implementation of the necessary investments. And you don't know what investments are going to be made today, which investments are going to be drawn, even on which investments you are on, I'm going to say, limit spending or how much money you have taken away from them, which we don't have today, which is why we have proposed another fund in our parliamentary group, that is, a budget covid item to make these matters clear. They're not today. And this other fund, which we are proposing today, we are talking about a dedicated infrastructure fund, these funds would ensure that they are collected and earmarked for our infrastructure, and it must be said that we are also ahead of digitisation and formatting and that investment is needed, and it is therefore important that resources are provided for our challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Once again, Mr Secretary of State has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u214	Thank you so much for saying that. It's about the second track of Divac-Koper. A definitive project is financed, it has a closed financial structure, it will finance itself during its operation. Interest and all related costs of the project are also included in the financial structure, so they will be paid out of their operations. Does it make sense, or can we believe, that the European funds that we will put in, which we will acquire for the second track project Divača-Koper, are these the losses of the taxpayer's money? I think it is my personal opinion that any drawing on European funds going into Slovenian infrastructure is welcome. This pumping should be even greater, because in the end, it is no better for us to remain at EU level and be supported by other countries. As far as the use is concerned. We're currently charging for rail usage, and the numbers are at a level of 10 million, but if you want to go to the level of 250 million, I can tell you what would happen. Full loading oz. All rail traffic would pass through Slovenia. He would not simply go around the Slovenian railway network, he would go around the Slovenian port and all the rest of the logistics infrastructure. We forget, sometimes, that the actual rail system is part of the entire transport system and logistics system, where jobs are created, where added value is created, where ultimately revenue for the budget is generated. From this point of view, increasing the use is indeed a delicate area, we are certainly implementing it and it is not true that it is smaller than we are paying service providers. We pay service providers only for those prisons, this is called compensation for railway closures, and we pay them for the time when, due to our planned work, carriers must have reduced capacity due to our planned work and closures, or they must do business. If we didn't do this, we could permanently lose these transport routes. So this is related to this, and then maybe I'd just like to go to the budget and, I'll say, the limited scale that we currently have for investments of roughly over 100 million or 130 million. True, this is not the only problem we face. Currently, according to everything, we know that 49% of roads are in very poor condition, i.e. in the worst possible category in road conditions. However, we have for 2020 and 2021 in the budget, which was adopted, of course, last year, for a good 80 million less in the field of roads, so we have already started and started with a budget which has a deficit in 2019 for 80 million less. Well, it's hard to say that it's just a problem of this 130 million, but we're just trying and hoping that we can do the most with these funds, and the government is going to find a solution to get these funds at the time of the rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u215	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor and Mr Aleksander Reberšek is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u216	Yes, Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State with your co-worker, colleagues and all those accompanying today's meeting. Good-bye. Now that we are opening up one of the topics in this National Assembly, or, some topics, it would be very difficult for all to find a common language together, which is the most important topic in this National Assembly. However, it is certain that today we are talking about infrastructure, of course, one proposal, the budget fund proposed by Alenka Bratušek, and of course our proposaler is mag. Andrei Reich. I like it a lot when colleague Andrej speaks as an expert. I must admit that I always like to listen carefully, because it has adequate education, construction and, of course, some work experience. In his life, he's certainly done a lot of things in this area. But, you know, when I, as a member of this National Assembly, first got this document in my hands, I thought there was some sincere purpose here. Now that we are talking about infrastructure, in the country, the Republic of Slovenia, we must be correct in treating this infrastructure as Members, right not to play. I wouldn't want to think much of it today. One is politics, the other is professional when it works. I am happy, I am proud, of the Slovenian profession we have in this area of infrastructure. That's one piece of evidence. I always remember when we take a ride to the Slovenian coast when we see the Viadukt Black Kal. Politics finds that this is what it takes for our country. Domestic engineers, designers and domestic contractor. It's budget money. I think it's a success story. Some honest purpose was and is also, of course, an object that we are all proud of. During today's debate, including the motioner, even once he raised his voice, it was often said that the Government had taken something away from this mandate. But look, dear fellow Reich, if at home, in the family, we have the money for, ready money for modern television, and in the middle of it the washing machine breaks down, surely someone decides to buy the washing machine first, and in two months that modern television will be over the whole wall, so everyone can watch it, they'll be next door. In this, the most difficult time of the entire history of the Republic of Slovenia was also done by the Government of the Republic, today's Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and, of course, also, I think, that the Minister, including the Secretary of State, had no doubts that he would not agree with this in these very difficult times. Comrade Reich, I'm sure you haven't been in politics yet. When your president was Alenka Bratusek. Do you know when we've given at least the last 12 years for infrastructure? In 2013 and 2014 – 146 million. At least then, it was a crisis, wasn't it? But, then, probably the state was also in charge of, like, now if I go back to my family, as if the family were in charge of Christmas holidays, that the week was beautiful, and then the loan should be returned for a year. During that period, we destroyed most of the building knowledge of companies. What I'm saying is that the infrastructure area hasn't been tampered with in the apartment house when you can pressure it, and it changes from day to day. It's a long-term process. Slovenia had a lot of knowledge, and I say, thank God that at some point we also brought it back. “So”, in 2013, 2014, we gave at least for infrastructure, and she was your minister, your Prime Minister of the Government. Of course, my colleagues from SMC will be happy. Most of all, in the last 12 years, we have given for infrastructure 2018 – 290 million when Minister Peter Gasperšič was Minister. I congratulate him, and no matter what he's not in my client, but that doesn't say politics, that's what the graphs show. But now we are moving forward and when your Minister of Infrastructure was finally, and when the budget was adopted, as the Secretary of State had previously said, you have reduced again, again by 80 million euros, the investment in infrastructure. So, the tables show that I'm not going to use the name anymore, and we know what year someone was Prime Minister of the Government, and what year was someone's Minister of Infrastructure? Experts, however, have the entire history of the Republic of Slovenia all the time present. Only from us is the ability of the government or the minister how they will follow this development. Another interesting piece of information. When you had a ministry, when you weren't even in the government, we overlaid in 2014, 8.5 kilometers of state roads. However, when Minister Peter Gasperšič was a minister, we restored them to 164.5 miles [164.5 km]. I don't speak politically, I speak in the area of graphs. In short, today, to deal with the Government, with the Minister, with the Secretary of State and to propose some fund after the crisis which Slovenia is of course picking up against its feet, and when the Government ensures over time that we have to invest if another COVID comes along and I want it not to happen to us that we will be as driven as possible. But I call on you, my fellow Reich and everything in the National Assembly, that we are responsible for the area of infrastructure and that everything we do is done honestly. Of course, the minister had a map and a half a year on the table or in her drawer, but now you brought it to this National Assembly. That's not an honest intention. Now I'm done. But I respect you as an expert, and I like to listen to you, and above all I like to listen to your friend back there, Mr Starović, when he always tells us what he's been doing in life and I mean, I've never heard him bluff, he's always honest, and I like to listen to that too. In short, today's proposal is not sincere and let's respect the young team at the Ministry and Slovenian knowledge about infrastructure. If we follow this as politicians, the development of infrastructure at national level will go in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The applicant has entered the floor. Here you go, Mr. Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u218	Actually, I don't know how to do this, first of all, I'd like to thank my colleague, Podbódsk, for the compliments, but I still don't understand his words. [[…]] Then why does it oppose the infrastructure fund? You are talking about the lack of resources and the reason that this is the reason why investments are not being implemented is precisely why we have tabled in the legislative proposal, the procedure, the proposal to set up the infrastructure fund and if we also had it in 2013 and would be dedicated and would have the resources, more roads would also be built. And even today, if we had that money, we could build roads and railways. And I really don't understand why you don't support this, why you have concerns. The only thing I can understand is that you don't support it because you didn't write it yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica? Mr Podkoršek [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u220	Maybe one more explanation. During the 2014-2018 term, we were in the opposition, and I must congratulate the Minister, Petr Gasperšič and the party that led this ministry, for they have given 290 million euros for state infrastructure during this period. I don't speak as a politician, I speak from the castles whose graphs are prepared by experts. Comrade Reich, you entered at the wrong time with this document. The Ministry of Labour is preparing to invest as much as possible in infrastructure, and I am also afraid of something else, and this is also the task of all of us, especially the Ministry, how we will place ourselves in space in ten years' time. We have to do this today and tomorrow morning, because in ten years' time there will be many more birds, many more frogs, and this task will be much more difficult to place in the space for strategic projects that are important for Slovenia and beyond.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u221	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Alexander Reberšek has the floor, Mr Bevk alone is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u222	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Honourable Secretary of State with fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The party Alenka Bratušek introduced a law which is 99.2% the same as the law prepared by the services and professional services at the Ministry of Infrastructure. What a coincidence, isn't it? It is a typical “copy paste” where some wrongly placed commas and spikes are repeated in both cases or documents. Both in a document prepared by expert services at the Ministry of Infrastructure and in a document prepared or filed by Alenka Bratušek. But here it's interesting that the 0.8% of the document you wrote in the SAB, but you wrote that part yourself, and it's controversial, and I'll say it's completely wrong. In the SAB you proposed to devote 2 percentage points of VAT to the budget fund for investment in transport infrastructure is said to be part of the VAT that we pay citizens when we buy bread and salad in roads and other infrastructure projects. So you managed to write 21 lines in the SAB, but you copied 16 pages of the A4 sheet. I'm going to say you're at the Alenka Bratushek Party because if I didn't know you, I'd believe you guys, but because I know you, I know what it's like. [[Incomprehensible]] It is not about anything else here, and this needs to be clearly highlighted here only for the cheap collection of political points. At that time, when the government was dealing with the epidemic, you were thoroughly copying all these documents at the Alenka Bratusek Party as if you had learned nothing from the times when your President had to defend herself, because of the accusation of plagiarism of your master's duties, you today presented here a law that you copied in 99.2%. Bravo. Once again, you're doing all this just to get political points and clean up for nothing else. Now it's purely visual. In words, we are all alike, but in actions we differ. If you wanted to seriously build infrastructure projects in Alenka Bratušek, your former Minister Alenka Bratušek would not have signed a half-million-dollar annex before she left. How many miles of road is that? If Alenka Bratušek wanted a serious construction of infrastructure projects in the Party, your former Minister would lay the foundations for a cheaper construction. I'm specifically talking about the third development axis. It is more than obvious that here your President, Alenka Bratusek, is involved in the construction of a fast road with connections in Shentrupert and that connection that is too expensive. If we wanted to build more in the SAB, we'd be building faster, and we'd be building more quickly, rather than copying documents like you're doing today. On the one hand, why do you want this budget fund for investment in transport infrastructure, on the other hand, to lay the groundwork for the most expensive fast road in our country? The fact is, you're talking one thing and you're doing another. If we have built an average mile of highway in Slovenia - I speak with a runway - for 9 million euros per kilometre we would like to build on Koroška for more than 50 million per kilometre and that fast road that does not have a runway. Who's crazy here now? Your President, Alenka Bratušek, had every opportunity to build a fast road from the A1 to Velenje highway with a single viaduct connecting in Arja village. Not that you have been working in the opposite direction and literally this is now known on the ground to be rushed with the purchase of all these land only in order to build the most expensive fast road with the connection in Šentrupert, which will be at a good 13 km from Šentrupert to Velenje containing 17 infrastructure facilities, says 6 tunnels and 11 viaducts more than one infrastructure object per kilometer, it is not normal. Here you have an infrastructure fund, you're building cheaper, and in this country we're going to build faster, and we're going to build more quickly, and we're going to build infrastructure facilities for our citizens, specifically for our citizens, especially for the Korosks and also for the Belokranians, who have been waiting for years because you've set up, and I hope to say that's the basis for the most expensive fast road in our country. Nor can I, like Savinjak, pass the fact that the route you favour at the Alenka Bratušek Party will destroy 150 buildings and move 160 people or 40 families. Do you have any idea how much money is spent on all these properties, buying these properties at an already overly expensive mile of fast road to Koroška? The result of all this is that we are driving on ruined roads, while Koroscas and Belokorans do not yet have a fast road. And if we really want to build more with you, we should work on putting a fast road or route into space. But the rest is, without offense, a nice, cheap collection of political points. And here you have the best infrastructure fund. Nothing is taken away from anyone, but much more is built, and here we need to start saving. The cheaper we build, the more we can build in this country, the more we can come from words to action. Now, a replica of the replica isn't possible because I know you applied to the replica, and I told you everything I wanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The proposaler has the opportunity to come to the debate whenever he wants, so Mr Andrej Reich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u224	So, I would like to remind my colleague Rebecca first of all that the National Assembly and Members do not place routes in the space, but I am interested in who he lobbies for, whose land he sells, and therefore I ask him to provide us with a final list of owners and numbers, partial numbers of land on which the route goes, to see who he lobbies for. I want to be clear here as a construction engineer to explain that tunnels are not built to go across the house, but past the house so as not to destroy it. And you, my dear fellow, I call upon you to finally present to us a list of lands with names and surnames of owners so that we can verify who you lobby for. Other comments are, however, and other statements are unworthy of comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u225	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Bevk alone has the floor, and Mr Edward Paulic is preparing himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u226	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Respectable assembly, warmly welcomed, including representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I support every initiative to modernise transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia, especially modernisation on the priority axes of the state road network, since in my constituency we have only a state road network, but of course locally, we do not have a railway, we do not have a river, we do not have a sea, so the only connection to the rest of Slovenia and the world is roads. If we get the necessary resources to modernise the state road network through the proposal for a Budget Fund for Investment in Transport Infrastructure, then I am in favour. Former Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenka Bratušek has already announced this law in the National Assembly on several occasions in this mandate. I have been to some meetings of the Infrastructure Committee, as well as to answer Members' questions. It was taken down by its Members. I'll give you one example, 1998 case. One mandate earlier, the Ministry of Culture, under the leadership of Minister Sergio Pelhan, drafted a law on the so-called cultural tolar. The government did not wish to put it into the procedure and, in the next term, we took it down from all parliamentary groups, we tabled it in 1998, it was adopted in 1999, and this law was then extended several times until the end of 2013. So it's an emissary law that was drafted by one of the government departments. If we go further on the matter of the state road network itself. Earlier, the Secretary of State had said that in view of the implementation of the Infrastructure Directorate's budget, according to 2019 for the next two years, EUR 80 million was reduced for the current year and next year. It is said that, indeed, the state road network needs additional resources to ensure that this network does not continue to deteriorate. I would like to say that in the Republic of Slovenia we do not have only another railway track and we do not have only a third development axis. We only hear about these two projects more or less all these years. But we also have other priority development axes, we have the third A development axis from Ljubljana to Kočev and we also have the fourth development axis, which goes from Robič via Tolmin to Želen and there divides into the church-mountain edge of the fourth development axis through Škofje arch to Jeparca and we have the Idrija-logic leg of the fourth development axis, which then connects through Idrija in Logatec to the highway corridor. It is said that it is essential to make investments on the entire state road network. That is why we need funds either from an infrastructure fund or from European funds or from funds that we will now use to restart the Slovenian economy after the Coronavirus epidemic. So, as I say, I support any investment and any additional funds in this area. I am currently the chairman of the Maritime Members' Club, and on Monday, I convened a Club of Coastal Members in Idrija. The participation has already been announced by virtually all mayors in the area of the fourth development axis. The theme will, of course, be the modernisation of the state road network in the area of the fourth development axis and the inclusion of this project among the country's priority investments to start the Slovenian economy. I also expect representatives of the Ministry, representatives of the Infrastructure Directorate, to agree specifically at this meeting on what we can do to modernise the state road network throughout the Republic of Slovenia and also in the area of the fourth development axis, so that we will not only talk about the third development axis, as has been the practice so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has entered the floor. Mr. Mihelich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. I cannot go beyond that, given that I am a representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure, I would ask that, in fact, for the laws prepared by our professional services, that they do not actually exploit this and that they treat themselves as if the Minister with a team is an ex, anyone else has taken this law. It's not a summary. We know what the difference is between a summary or a literal one-on-one copy. 99,2 %. We know in other segments how to deal with this. But I really don't want to interfere here anymore. This is the work of the National Assembly and you will interpret whether it is permissible or not. I'm not giving my opinion here because I'm not in charge. With regard to all the other projects that are under way and the necessary resources we have, it is true that we want more resources, we are looking for solutions. We are really looking for solutions to where to get all the money in these difficult times. It's not easy. There was a lot of things that needed to be done. The Ministry of Infrastructure didn't stand a foothold here. In these times of crisis, the entire transport sector had to be addressed. Slovenia was the first country, and then, as the Ministry of Infrastructure, we introduced so-called green corridors or corridors of all transporters, that traffic of goods ran as well as could have been delivered to the country. The buy-in was necessary and related to emergency situations, particularly the transport sector during this period. However, we have already, immediately upon arrival, focused at this time, somehow predicted, we knew that it would be a difficult time, that we would be able to start an economy and that the country is still important here to increase the volume of investments. But first of all, for the area of roads, 80, at least 80 million too little, already in the existing budget that was planned, and we were able to finance all those extraordinary measures to mitigate Covid's situation. Nevertheless, we are, of course, preparing many projects. Here, of course, the third development axis is most exposed to media, where we squeeze to get all the necessary building permits as soon as possible. In fact, the most important projects with their design and other procedures are close enough to implementation. Those can be activated relatively quickly. As for that list and the placement of investments in that list of important investments for economic recovery, these are projects that are relatively close to the possibility of implementation or, we call them “ready to go” investments. The fourth development axis, we're familiar with it, we're definitely looking at the third a development axis, the fourth development axis, the fifth development axis, the rail network, not just the coastal part or the Styrian part, now we're going to rebuild the second part, the second phase of the mountain line, followed by the first part, the second phase of the mountain line. In short, we are actively working on all of these segments and the fourth development axis comes in turn, certainly, but I am concerned that in this segment, the fourth development axis, I don't know if I could fit it, I don't think so, because it's just currently in the stage of the idea. I don't think it's been in the past that I'm well aware of, but here I'm not asking to hold my word, but I don't think it's in terms of placement and design, it's almost nothing done, but I hope I'm wrong. I sincerely hope I'm wrong, but we're actually going to focus on this, so I can assure you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. A brief explanation or replica to the Secretary of State. Of course, on the national network or on the fourth development axis, there are many projects that need to be implemented. They're in the country's development plans, but they're postponing where it says, after 2022, 2023, aren't they? There's a lot of them at a stage where they can go into execution, and they're slowing down again, because, let's say, there's 80 million missing and so on and so forth. So we could put several projects in the area of the fourth development axis into this plan, to boost the Slovenian economy, because I think they have been brought so far as to be able to carry out or at least to plan. It is true that there is one major project, which also requires spatial placement, which is this connection between the Church and Gorenjska, where there is also a tunnel link, this spatial plan or this route, and – listen carefully – has been placed in the space since 2006, it has been said for 14 years, and today at the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia and at the Ministry of Environment and Space, they are studying which variant is more appropriate. I don't know any road that would take so long to move into space. Even in the area of the highway cross, past Radovljica and past Trebnje, it was located there for 10, 11, 12 years, and nowhere else for 14 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u231	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Edvard Paulič has the floor, and Mrs Matey Udovč is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will make a substantive comment on the bill, I will not go into ownership or authority, nor am I aware of it. One fundamental principle that must apply to the State as the Ombudsman is that spending public funds must be transparent and responsible. We are still feeling the consequences of the so-called crown of crisis, so it is important that we put our economy on its feet as successfully as possible after the epidemic. This can also be done by starting up investments in the country, particularly with investments in infrastructure. We probably agree for the most part that such investments are one of the most effective measures at the time of the recession. However, it is important to provide adequate resources and mechanisms and perhaps a solution can also represent a specific budget fund for investment in transport infrastructure. The Minister of Infrastructure recently said that it is necessary to provide a stable source of funding for infrastructure projects and we all agree with that, including the proposer and his proposal for a law going in this direction today. However, there is a clear disagreement with the method of implementation, given that the Government does not support the proposal for a law. While the government is obviously aware of the importance of investment, it adopted an intervention law to remove obstacles to the implementation of important investments in late May. The law provides for the preparation of a list of priority investments and it has been almost three weeks since the adoption of the law, and the list is not yet available, although I think we should attach it to the bill so that Members can know what we are voting on. What I welcome in this law is the provision which provides for the mandatory application of the European Commission's Guidelines on the participation of third-country operators. It is essential, however, that suppliers from a third country may be excluded from the public tender if they do not take into account economic, social and legal standards and in this way our domestic companies will be much more competitive in the implementation of major infrastructure projects. And if I can explain why it's useful and good. If the business gets its domestic business, it remains in Slovenia about 70% of the value of the business. If the business gets a business based abroad, it remains around 20% of the value of the contract in Slovenia, which means that we need to look at the macroeconomic effects, the growth of GDP, the development, employment and not just the contract prices, and I welcome that. It is therefore important, especially during the crisis, to launch an investment cycle and invest in infrastructure projects, and all that I have said will lead us to the conclusion that I have said at the outset, we need a stable source of funding. As it is said, in my opinion, the budget fund would further contribute to the continued implementation of investments, the proposal for a law expanding the pool of resources for investment, which I think is welcome. Whether all the resources are right or not, I'm having a hard time judging today. It is also important that dedicated resources are not limited in time, which represents the possibility of medium- and long-term investment planning. In view of the Government's argument that resources can only be used deliberately for transport infrastructure if they are wholly or partly from transport infrastructure, I wonder, however, why it would be disputed that part of the VAT collected would be transferred to where the country needs the most resources and where the greatest multiplier effect would actually be achieved. Does it not constitute a greater economy for the state to invest its money there because it will last the most for the euro invested? According to some economists, each initial euro investment will contribute or contribute 2.8 euros to GDP if, of course, Slovenian companies are building. In my view, today's debate in such or other infrastructure funds is useful on the spot, but I am also open to any different, better, more appropriate proposals in the LMŠ as well as in the LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The next one is before you, Mrs. Udovč, a drafter has come forward. Here you go, Mr. Reich. Are you giving up, Mr. Reich? Mrs. Widower, you have the floor. The next debater will be Mr Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. The COVID-19 epidemic is slowly withdrawing from our daily lives by rejoining the normal rhythm of life and work, but the consequences in the economic field that are not yet fully known remain. Even in the National Assembly and the Government, we are again faced with daily topics, problems, and dilemmas that are only long - term solutions. A typical example is the resolution of investment in transport infrastructure. Never a complete story, always too little money for all the necessary investments, which we base primarily on traffic security. On the other hand, due to the level of resources on these items, we like to think about their contraction and reallocation in the context of the budgets' rebalancing, so I fully understand the idea and aspirations of establishing a specific dedicated Fund for the Financing of Investment and Investment Maintenance of Transport Infrastructure. After all, this was also the idea of our former Minister of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Petr Gasperšič, to form an infrastructure fund. It would achieve a constant level of funding for this purpose. The club has not yet made any attempts to establish the Fund. It is usually stuck with sources of funding, available resources and coordination with the Ministry of Finance. The current arrangements for this funding through the Fund also do not allow or provide for. This topic is addressed by the Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure. It provides dedicated funds for the implementation of investments and maintenance of transport infrastructure by 2023. There are also clear sources of funding, namely annual road traffic charges and port Koper concession fees belonging to the Republic of Slovenia. When, during my presentation of the Group's position, my colleague, Rajh, has intervened gravely in my word and the impact of privatisation, I wonder what he thinks of all the investments made in the public administration by the private partnership. Is it privatisation, or is it helping the country? I cannot help but say that what colleague Vojko Starović said is true, I fully agree with his words when he said that we really need the Infrastructure Fund. Before the COVID-19 outbreak, before the collapse of the Sharča government, we had a record budget, a budget of over 10 billion, which would allow for a very good basis for such a fund to be set up and not only set up, but also revived and rhetorically asked what opinion did the Minister of Finance then have on this? But I understand today that Sharča's government is no longer the same, there is no longer the same composition of the ministry and there will be no record budget as we had in the past year as the Sharča government has. In fact, the bill we have on the table today is very much in the way of tax policy. The proposed law can tax policy, so such proposals as I have already said should always come from the Government and include all stakeholders. [[Incomprehensible]] We cannot pass or certainly ask ourselves the sense of decommissioning two % of the VAT point as a source of funding to this dedicated budget fund. The main objective of identifying dedicated resources for investment in transport infrastructure is that the main sources come from the use and burden of transport infrastructure. They also need to be re-focused on investment in transport infrastructure with a view to maintaining or improving it. However, the latter condition does not meet the value added tax. It's not working. Therefore, the introduction of VAT work as a dedicated resource intended to invest in transport infrastructure is inappropriate. I am of the opinion that the proposal is a very good basis for solving this problem, but I am of the opinion that it is not yet appropriate for further consideration at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u235	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The applicant has entered the floor. Here you go, Mr. Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u236	So, the debate is getting pretty lively. I see that there is still some misunderstanding by fellow Members, and I would therefore like to explain in more detail the third article, so we are talking about one of the five articles of the law that are written on the A4 list. We are talking about Article 3, which is about taking on commitments under the burden of the infrastructure fund, that this is possible only up to the amount of planned spending in the current national budget development programme plan, and as you know, we have a six-year solid plan in which these investments are planned, designed and precisely why it is necessary to provide the necessary funds for the implementation of these investments. And indeed, we have proposed to include two percentage points of VAT, it is nothing, it is no stranger, let's see, also for the pension fund a transfer is made from the budget, and those who deny it then also deny that this transfer is being carried out. And I wonder if that'll make the pension smaller? Will the pensioners be deprived? And we must be aware that investing in infrastructure is investment that strengthens our economy, which strengthens our strategic advantage and allows businesses and our citizens to work. Remember, also colleague Podkoršek has shown nicely what happens if the funds are not enough. Investments are dead and the infrastructure fund is a dedicated fund and a dedicated measure to ensure continued implementation of investments. And even from the debate, as far as I can see, there is really no substantive opposition to this fund, you all agree that it is necessary, you all point to fluctuations in the implementation of investments, and the infrastructure fund is the fund that eliminates this fluctuation. This is a fund that will ensure the continued implementation of the necessary investments for the benefit of all citizens and our economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u237	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr State Secretary, let me say that the debate is about Mr Franci Kepa, mag. Andrej Reich as a debater, I have him on the list, and as the last Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u238	Thank you so much for saying that. In general, I would like to clarify one point, namely, the resources flowing into the integrated budget and earmarked from the integrated budget for any matter, which is otherwise to be understood as a direct transfer of the VAT percentage into a particular matter. [[Incomprehensible]] In short, if we define it, this is the issue of this law. We are legally in conflict with the second article of the Public Finance Act. We cannot direct a percentage of VAT collected from all possible industries into the transport sector alone. He can't. Well, legally, that's unacceptable. And we don't do that in the country. Otherwise, if from all sources VAT is transferred to an integrated budget, then the Government from a budget or budget adopted, of course, by Parliament or the National Assembly, then is allocated in specific areas. So these are two different approaches. And right here is the inadmissibility that percentage points are directly directed to a particular industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Proposer, Mr. Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u240	Here I would like to make it clear that the pension allowance is primarily filled with contributions from pension and disability insurance. And the lack of the necessary resources is ensured by the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u241	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr. Franci Kepa has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I say hello to everyone! I think we all agree that the additional funds are welcome investment and even, they just have to stand on real ground. But there are times now, and I think it's very necessary to think prudently about every investment money, especially the virus.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u243	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, just the microphone a little closer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u244	Slovenia is already building 30 investments in infrastructure. I think most of the major road infrastructures have already done, major projects, but the remaining, third axis against Koroška, towards Dolenjska. I hear about the fourth axis, it's also foreseen, which has not been planned yet. All these fast roads are supposed to be built in the short run. I think there is an additional one here, also from Kočev to Ljubljana for an update or a fast road. I don't think we're gonna run out of materials to build and projects to come. Colleagues mentioned that it would be good to build projects only by Slovenian contractors and that this is very good. I think we've had some bad experience with this in the past. We pushed most of our performers in 20 years, and then we saw what came out of it. Most of these companies are gone, from SCT, Primorje, Gradis. Perhaps it would be better if we combined or were not able to exclude foreign operators on public calls, as has been done in the past. Whether this was agreed between themselves, among these major performers Slovenian or not. I am convinced that it would be better to combine this with a foreign cocessionaire as well as others. The example of Croatia, they made good quality highways and very quickly, before we did. It is also from our congregation, as mentioned, around Trebnje. That's where 10, 12 years were placed. It was obvious that this was a political matter. We needons are now convinced that we have done well, that we have insisted that the old highway has not been run over and that we now have this ex-H1 as a highway. But if we went down that road, we'd have all the traffic across Trebnje in case of accidents, and we're happy that we did. As far as I'm concerned, the infrastructure on the railway is highly undernourished and nothing has been done in these 30 years. I think the minister should pay particular attention to railways in the future, because traveling 50 kilometers for half an hour is not appropriate for this time. It bothers me because the secretary mentioned all the railway lines, except the Lower Railways, again, it does not seem we are not on the plan again anywhere and this is one of the regional routes which is said to be only from Grosuplje to Ljubljana foreseen in the short term, but Dolenjska, Dolenjska has two, two largest export companies, Krka and Revoz, in the past, three years ago all the cars from Revoz, which are made around 200 000 per year, are driving on the railway, and now all of these cars are driving along the highway and massing already so crowded highways, highways against Ljubljana. I asked the question, and it is said that the railway is currently unable to bring cars in in a short time. I am confident that the current government, as has been said, with the young team, will carry out things that are already planned, probably with limited money, but supported by money that is also foreseen and, and that I do not also promise, even grants from Europe, plus credit, credit ability to include projects and implement them all, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, as a debater, as a Member, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u246	Thank you, President, for your word. This time I am speaking as a debater, the debate is quite varied, and my colleague Kepa said: we have been building infrastructure in Slovenia for 30 years. We're building it because there's not enough money at our disposal, never enough money, and you're basically confirming it by all Members. And the purpose of this fund is to provide the necessary means to maintain and build the necessary infrastructure, both in the field of roads and transport, em, railways, we must be aware that we have approximately 6,000 kilometres of state roads in Slovenia, just over a thousand 200 kilometres of railways, and that is the quantity that needs funds. There is no Member among us who would not know of any section of the road in his place which is in need of reconstruction. Practically none of the meetings of the National Assembly, where Members of the Council would not raise a question on this subject, will pass. And our fund, which we have invested in the procedure, we are talking about 5 points recorded on A4 pages, of which 2 points rely, of which 2 points refer to transitional provisions, talks precisely about strengthening our infrastructure, strengthening our geostrategic position, ensuring that our economy is given the necessary strategic advantage and our people's work. This is in the crisis ahead of us and we expect it to be realized that the relevant institutions are predicting a decline in economic activity by about 8%, an important counter-measure, an anti-crisis measure. We must be aware that construction is a sector that drives many, many, many other industries and has the highest multiplier effect and therefore, throughout history, we are solving ourselves from crisis situations through the start of state infrastructure investments. And we must be aware that capital is not always favourable, so private capital is not always favourable to investment. I wonder which of the privates will invest their money to rebuild the road between Maribor and Areh at Pohorje For such roads, for such projects, there is no money and, therefore, there is no private money and private interest and therefore it is the responsibility of the state to take care of this infrastructure fund and we are coming to this step. We must be aware that digitalisation, informing that climate change measures, of course, include measures to decarbonise transport, and that it is the infrastructure that will help this very much, and investment in railways is very expensive. And, at this point, I would also like to touch colleagues of the Udovč who spoke about public private partnership and private investors. Just in the second track project, their former Minister Gasperšič envisioned a Hungarian contribution in the form of a loan that would be overpaid over the fifty-year period, i.e. by 100 %. We are talking about the amount of interest on the 200 million capital, about 200 million interest, and this is an unequivocally expressed interest in private capital, which would ultimately be paid by someone other than the Slovenian taxpayer. We must be aware that infrastructure is our strategic advantage, therefore, that it is strategically important and that it is not right to involve foreign countries and foreign companies in strategically important things, which also have a defence function. We must be aware that foreign countries and foreign companies, through ownership shares, exercise their economic interest and it is not right that foreign companies and foreign countries, have a view of the infrastructure of strategic and defence importance for Slovenia. We must be aware that today we do not only have classical warfare, but that there is always more computer warfare, so cyber attacks, and, I will say, attacks through cybernetics, into our infrastructure, can have lasting, lasting consequences. I would also like to touch my forerunners, who unfortunately do not distinguish between 2% and 2 percentage points. 2% count from 100%, 2 percentage points count from 22%, and this is essentially a matter that each Member should know and understand. Also, I find it unacceptable that they appear, in the National Assembly, by Members, statements about, well, lobbying, express lobbying, for new placements in the space, for changing routes. The task of Members is not to place objects in space, they do so in Slovenia for this competent institution, but I can also understand such attempts as defending their own interests, if someone wants to take a new route, take a road, that means that for someone sells land, so I conclude, and also means obviously some good things, and I will not speak any further, so I also called on my colleague to come up with a list of land and also a list of landowners so that we can check the potential conflict of interests. I would also like to touch the pension fund and would like to attach it to the fund. We must be aware that if, in order to implement certain investments or, I will say, public obligations, there is a lack of resources, as in the case of the pension fund, the missing State provides from the State budget and, in that sense, Article, i.e. the provision in Article 2 in the third paragraph, when we speak of two percentage points of VAT, does not derogate here, but in this sense that it is fixed. In the pension box, however, this is determined by necessity and that is essentially the only difference and I see nothing at all here. It is right that we plan our investments in such a way that our stakeholders will also be provided with the necessary security for our economy. It is right to provide them with the necessary financial resources and, in fact, our fund follows these needs our proposal. It can also be seen from the debate that the proposals are in fact not substantively opposed, we all agree that investment is necessary in order to ensure the necessary financial resources. The law is open and in fact I see no reason why the procedure should not continue to disregard the comments made by Members and the Ministry. I believe that this is also a measure against the crisis which is not directed against the Government against anyone. We just want investments to be made so that there will be no harm done by failing to implement the necessary measures. Mr Podkoršek also showed what would happen if sufficient resources were not available so that investments would dry up, dry economic activity, and construction companies would fall if they did not have a job. This is precisely our measure against a crisis measure, a measure that concerns the welfare of the state and the citizens. The law that we have drafted is short, is concise, is clear, is transparent, is transparent and pursues all those goals, all desires for the well-being of people, the country, the economy. We must be aware that Italy and Hungary, therefore, Austria and Italy and Hungary, on the other hand, are speeding up their infrastructure and that if we do not build our infrastructure, we will lose our geostrategic advantage. In Austria, before the completion of the construction of the northern line, which goes parallel to the Drava Valley on the Austrian side all the way to Italy, to Trieste. On our south side are very present and aggressive Hungarians. In Serbia and Hungary, there are very aggressive Chinese and if we do not provide our own resources and if we allow as suggested, that funds will be exclusively financed by foreigners will also be built, foreigners will manage and have a view of our infrastructure and even us if you want to blackmail us. That is why this infrastructure fund is the measure that will provide us with stable sources of funding, security, not only economic security, but also geostrategic and defence security, and yet I call on my fellow Members to listen to our proposal and support it and to complement it as much as they want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Aleš Mihelič, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u248	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. I would just like to remind you of one thing that the applicant points out. The substantive basis on which the law is based is disputed in the context that, contrary to Article 2 of the Public Finance Act, the source from which the budget of this Infrastructure Fund would be filled can thus be filled. In short, a legal formal matter is not admissible. And second of all, they'd throw one more thing. In fact, if the Infrastructural Fund as currently defined does not introduce any new revenue, so let us not fill it with any additional burdens, inflows, with any other source, therefore this does not mean that it can in any way be at present any measure against the crisis, which at this moment would give us the opportunity to start up investments, to start up an economy with any additional resources. They're gone. And in this context, it means that the Ministry of Infrastructure, according to the proposaler's analogy, is going to flow from the budget resources to the infrastructure fund of the 270 million VAT, with our information, as confirmed by the Ministry of Finance, is that, according to your proposal, this is only 77 million, not 270, as you suggested, or 84, as assessed by Member Horvat, but only 77 million. So from this point of view, if we look at it, there will be nothing more available for investments than it is now. It'll only come through the infrastructure fund. So if there is no new resources, no new resources, no more investments, just an additional fund. It is true, however, that in the coming years such a fund or all similar funds, which are financed either indirectly with existing resources or with some additional external resources, would allow for some continuity, but we currently need additional funds because we do not have them. And if we just transfer them from the budget, there'll be less money in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u249	Thank you very much. As the last one is Love Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Now, basically, if I just look at the content and the purpose itself, I would call this a good proposal. That's my opinion, but it's good if I put it up in 2009. And I'm going to go in line to maybe base this on my thinking. See, the fact is that the construction trend, especially here, I think about the trend in investment in transport infrastructure, has staggered tremendously with regard to the volume of construction in different time periods. That is to say, we have been making very high investments in infrastructure, in fact, not to say that the overburning of construction and also part of the rest of the economy, I would say, then in the coming years, to the extraordinary downturns where construction companies have collapsed, there has also been an economic downturn, as we know that construction binds to 43% of the rest of the economy, and the rest of the economy has also cooled down as construction investments fall. In this case, between 2005 and 2008, the last major leg of the highway, the so-called pomurski leg, was built. Look, it was a reality back then, only the DARS had an annual realization of 900 million. The Directorate for Roads, which manages the regional highway programme, has been realising around 210 million a year, and there have been several minorities throughout the country. This is said to have been a year around a billion 200. After 2009, this realization totaled about 250 to 300 million. These are extreme, extreme falls, of course, which such a strong construction sector has not been tolerated by the executive sector in Slovenia. There have been consequences, huge consequences. Many major construction companies have collapsed, of course smaller cooperatives, suppliers and so on. To avoid this, in 2009 we would still need a law like that on the table today. And now, if I go to this marriage. In 2009, he was the first to propose a law similar to this one, Mr Verlic. This was, of course, at the time, Mr Verlič came from the opposition and this law was not adopted. And at that time, I would have been absolutely necessary. Then, in 2016, Mr Černač and I made a strong amendment to his draft and extended it into two laws. The first law was the Law on the provision of means of transport infrastructure and the second law on the priority set of infrastructure projects. The document, the Resolution on the development of transport infrastructure by 2030 is a very good document and from that document was a summary of the most priority needs of infrastructure development in the Republic of Slovenia. And of course today is the law on the table about, I would say, the so-called third reading, if I say so, it is true that it is quite short, even less has funding resources back then in our proposal were also sources from the so-called petrol cent, so to speak, part of the fuel consumption, including part of the profits from Dars, in particular with this view, in order to gather as much of the funds as possible. Today, however, we are in June 2020. And now, if I look at some sort of project picture of what's going to happen on investments over the next three years, the situation is the following. In the next three years, the third developmental axis of the north will surely be carried out. I'm talking about Velenje-Slovenian Gradec. Realisation, investment assessment 423 million. I'm sure that's going to happen in these three years. Then the realization of the third development axis south, from the New City to the White Krajina Valley, estimated slightly less than 600 million. Already in the building permit, this investment will take place in the next three years. Also, the tunnel tunnel tunnel of Karavanka, the contract signed, the beginning of the end of this year or already in autumn of this year, signed a contract of 120 million. Today we talked a lot about the directorate programme, which covers the main and regional programme in the Republic of Slovenia. This one needs every year to maintain the state of the road, the quality of the road we have, every year, 260 million. It is true that these funds have been reduced this year, and I am even more optimistic than the distinguished Secretary of State, and I believe that this year these funds will be reimbursed by the budget's rebalancing for investment purposes, as money is invested in the drive of the economy. And now, if this thing is actually an investment sum, yes, I forgot the second track. [[…]] The second track, the value, of course, we don't know exactly what it's going to be like, but there's been a lot of talk about it, but let's say my estimate for the next three years is that there's going to be 800 million in the next three years. And if I add that up, that's three billion in the next three years. If we divide it by three years, it's actually a good billion 50 a year in 2021, 2022 and 2023. This is a very large scale and we're almost, I'd say, on that scale when we talked about the high tip from 2005 to 2008, when the annual realization was a billion 200 a year. We're very close. It is said that if I say so, and even if I look at the sources of funding, in fact, not now that anyone will hold me to the floor, because I will give him a very good answer, for all the investments that I have now counted these huge figures is a financial resource. The financial source attached to the budget is only the source of the Directorate for Roads of the Republic of Slovenia, which now amounts to around 130 million this moment. I hope with the rebalancing he returns to 260 million. For the rest of the investment part, financial resources are provided. Third axis north, third axis south, caravan, investor Dars. It's true, Dars will rent loans for these investments for part of the coverage of these investments. Dars is very successful in paying off all credit obligations because he has more financial inflows than he is actually planning when borrowing credits. This is said to be successful in reprogramming credits, taking new credits on better terms and paying them easily. Here, the financial source to cover all these investments is not a problem. Budget-related is only a directorate with this share. That is what I would say today, but I wonder whether we need this asset law or not. In my opinion, I'd say he's coming back for the builders again, if I say at home, fat cows. There's gonna be a lot of work to do. The economy will flourish with the start of all these investments in Slovenia. There's gonna be a lot of work to do. And if there is much work to be done, then of course the state budget is also being filled. Today, perhaps, from my point of view, this time period is not necessary. In this proposal, the drafter shall assess the implications and impact of the adoption of this law in seven areas. It does not assess the financial implications of the budget. I mean, it's very strange for me, and that should be the first judgment. For we know that all these revenues are today the revenue of the budget and the adoption of such a law has a very strong impact on the budget. I agree, however, with the proposaler's opinion that if we invest in infrastructure this is a multiplier effect. I couldn't agree more. But given what I've presented, in fact, all these investments are financially covered. Money's not a problem. You know what the problem is in Slovenia? Procedures are a problem for us to come back to new investments in order to get new investments in space. Today we've heard, I also know cases from the past very well when we're talking about 9, 11, 13 years of space. That's the problem. These aren't normal clocks. Of course, this source of income is also at issue, now whether it is a percentage or a percentage or whatever it is. In short, it's a matter of considerable resources. For we know that VAT is a net tax revenue in the budget. And now, if we are witnesses, I would say, a very substantial budget drop, then the finance minister is in great trouble and, of course, he will be the one who will not turn on the green light that such a law goes into admission. I believe the purpose was good, but today I can say that money is not a problem. The financial resources to ensure the investment cycle over the next three years for a billion 50, as I have calculated, are covered, but I believe that there are still many regional roads in the local environment, a lot of bridge facilities, a lot of slope insurance, some reptiles and so on, but of course it has to be defined on some annual quota and this annual quota, which the directorship has, or should have, that the situation of Slovenian highways and regional roads does not deteriorate, is there about 260 million and if the directorship will have, of course, there is still a need to add some of the funds for investment maintenance on the railway infrastructure, according to my assessment somewhere between 40 and 60 million per year, I am talking about maintenance and not about major investments, then this is one such investment condition in the transport infrastructure with which we will be citizens, I would say, moderately satisfied, of course, and all of course, we will also be the budget that we care for the administration of the so-provided state.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u251	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. First of all, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Secretary of State Aleš Mihelic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u252	Thank you so much for saying that. In short, much has already been said today, I would not go into those matters about the origin of the document, but I would like to comment at this stage: that the proposed law does not have the appropriate legal basis and therefore, particularly in relation to the Public Finance Act, and because it currently does not address this issue, which the proposalr obviously wanted to solve in this current state of affairs, that we obtain these additional resources, but only instead of leaking into the integral budget into the dedicated fund and from the fund, in short, here as the Ministry of Infrastructure we will remain on equal incomes, only to arrive through the fund and not directly from the integral, here we are thinking about the Ministry of Infrastructure currently in several directions, looking for solutions to bring in new sources of financing and at the same time to take care of any continuity in this area. [[sign for the end of the debate]] However, whether they are 2 percentage points or 2 percentage points, in one case it would be 77 million, in the case of percentage points it would be around 370, 270 in any case is a miscalculation, but no matter how high it is, the fact that this fund, such as it is, cannot come into force because it would be contrary to the Public Finance Act and we will work at the Ministry [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] provide and prepare an appropriate fund in the future, thank you very much. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u253	Thank you very much. The text is also given by the representative of the proposer, Mag. Andrei Reich, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u254	So, yes, I will respond to everything as a proposalr, I will respond to everything, to all parts of the debate, even to the obvious. See, in the SAB Group of Members, we have introduced into the parliamentary procedure a law written on one A4 sheet contains 5 articles. His author, the original, was Minister, then Minister Alenka Bratušek, and we complemented him in the parliamentary group, and about authorship I would only like to read the record published at the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property, what is and what is not protected as a copyright. And it writes: as a work of art there are no protected ideas, ideas, principles, discoveries, that is, this idea given by the minister, then Minister Alenka Bratušek. Official texts of the legislative, administrative and judicial fields, human literary and artistic services. So also to you, the Secretary of State, no one denies the right to file this law, even though you did not write it, it is actually a public good. As far as percentage points or percentages are concerned, of course, this is a very important matter, and of course our record is not wrong because we do not know what the decline of economic activity will be. We have made a conservative assessment of 270 million euros, and you have now confirmed that the assessment is correct. However, I would also like to respond as a Member of the National Assembly and a citizen of Europe to your attempts not only did my colleague Horvath try to see you as possible pressure, intimidation, intimidation and silence to the National Assembly by misuse of legal remedies. We witnessed Mrs. Alenka Bratušek's slander that she had stolen the legal matter. These are serious and ugly accusations against unworthy officials of the State, and I think it would be appropriate for you to justify yourself. These were harsh words spoken in this National Assembly. But it is clear from what has been said and said who wrote the law, who is its author, and who has completed it. I would now like to touch on the bill itself. So, the law refers to a problem that has been observed for the past 30 years, this is a lack of sufficient funds to invest in our infrastructure on the road as a railway. About half of our road infrastructure needs efficient investment in modernisation, and we know that the railway is the one that is key to decarbonising freight transport in particular. We are facing a number of challenges here, a number of necessary investments in this infrastructure and we are talking about dedicated resources. I can understand that it is difficult at this point to redistribute funds between budgetary positions, but it is possible to adopt such a law with some time-limits or additions. I do not see any obstacle, let us remind you that almost all Members agreed that investing in the necessary infrastructure is therefore necessary and that we must in some systematic way provide the funds also, because the following law will expire in 2023. Let us recall the experience with the gas toll, the cent when the funds were not going to be spent was essentially chosen by means of a dedicated law and when the funds were not used in the current financial year it was very difficult to transfer them to the next financial year. All we want is that for our infrastructure, in which investment will be needed, electricity will be remembered and transport decarbonisation will require a lot of investment to secure funds. We also need to improve public transport, we need to improve train connections, we need to get new ones, so we need to build up lines, and our main infrastructure network is not two-tier everywhere. The regional lines are largely non-electrified and there is still a great need. We need to be aware that climate change is ahead of us. Climate change is called for by large-scale measures to decarbonise transport, and, of course, this situation requires us to make sure that we have sufficient resources for our development infrastructure for our economic activity to provide dedicated resources, which no one has actually challenged. My colleagues from the right have also made it clear what will happen if the funds do not fall down enough, and we must be aware that history is the teacher of life and the wise people learn something from it, and we also learn from the past crisis that construction, investment in infrastructure, investment in economic development, which is provided by economic activity, and we must, not only for building, but also for planning, to buy land, to put into space, provide resources. These funds are not small resources, and this is a systemic measure that will allow continued planning and implementation of investments and, in fact, the crises that we are witnessing, in fact lead us to believe that investments are those, we are also talking about a green breakthrough at European level, that investment is those that will help us to somehow overcome this situation and I am calling for it to be considered, that we are all well thought out, that no one has actually had any substantive concerns and that, if necessary, we can, by means of proposals, amend it, also increase the percentage point of VAT – these are all proposals that are open, that some new source of resources can be added to the law by some additional source of resources. The law is short, it is clear, it is transparent and it provides funds for dedicated investments provided for by law in a six-year rough plan and it is very important to me. It is very important that we provide the means to provide the means that will enable our economy to work which will give it a competitive advantage and we must be aware that the Austrians and the Italians are building parallel transport corridors in the north or west of our country, Croats in the south, east and south, and if we do not provide the necessary resources, then, in fact, these traffic flows, traffic corridors, will bypass us. This, of course, is not good for our economy, it is not good for maintaining our economic and geostrategic advantage. We know that if we do not ensure that our infrastructure, especially rail infrastructure, is not improved throughout our country and if we do not provide adequate standards, we may fall out of, in fact, the nuclear transport network and this, of course, is not good, it is not good for, nothing, in fact, and we need to work on maintaining our geostrategic position to continue with the investments that have begun, recall the second track, the third development axis, and recall that the Slovenian railway network is being intensively renovated and upgraded. [[Incomprehensible]] Let's just look at the track, the railway line, between Šentilje, Maribor, the Wall Bridge. Let's also look at other lines, so, as a mountain line, in Maribor we will get a new railway station and this is ahead of Ljubljana, and these are investments involving our domestic companies, these are investments that support economic growth, these are investments that also provide one continuous development and it is precisely because of this that we need to ensure that we direct them, strategically, into our places to ensure that remote places also get the necessary infrastructure, that this will not be subject to the market and the interests of capital, because the interest of capital goes only where there is a large, large profit and now imagine what a private person would do, with the height of the toll, for example, on the highway between Maribor and Ljubljana or Koprom, how much this toll would be in the hands of a private person. Today, in fact, all citizens are travelling very favourably on it, which is a private person, and if you asked for 7.8% of the return you would certainly increase and this would all go to the detriment of state and regional roads. Let us also recall the evidence that has a basis in traffic flow measurements, the burden on regional and state roads has substantially decreased by the implementation of the vignette system and, of course, this is a public interest. This is a public interest that we must defend. We need to ensure that investments continue in the future, and it is right that these investments help one way in every crisis, one way out of the crisis. I would really like all of us to take a good look at the proposals that are important, which are substantive and which address the problems that we are actually reluctant to ask with questions from the Member State of question even in times of crisis when money is gone and it is difficult to take, so it is particularly important that these funds are provided. Let us recall only the Water Fund or the Climate Fund and these two funds are also dedicated funds and are not dependent on what I will say to the current economic conditions, they are filling and allowing for the continued and planned implementation of investments, so it is no exception, it is a substantive solution to the welfare of the country, the citizens of our economy, so once again, honourable fellow Members, I ask you to think politely about your decision and all together support this law, which goes unequivocally to the welfare of the country, our economy and people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u255	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters that you wanted to get your word on. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I see there's still interest. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposer of mags. Andrej Reich and the government representative ask you to sign up by pressing the key to turn on the microphone, in which case you will get the word as the last one, first the government representative and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Four reported. Everyone has five minutes at their disposal. First he gets the word Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u256	Dear Vice-President of this National Assembly, thank you for your word! Once again, welcome to all the Secretary of State and his co-worker, the proposer, colleagues and colleagues and everyone accompanying this meeting. Of course, when we come to the conclusion of the proposal, of course, those who have come to the conclusion of this point feel that there is some sincere intention to achieve some objective in the field of infrastructure. Of course, in the economy we hear most of the time is money. Of course, we are talking all the time today, mainly by the money proposalr, about the fund. In the previous Government, Alenka Bratušek, Minister of Infrastructure, and the same party, she also has the Ministry of Cohesion. When the government was made up, that's why it was a win-win combination for me. During the year and a half, the minister was also replaced at the most crucial Ministry of Cohesion. They even said they were looking for the citizenship of one, whether it will be Slovenian or sky, in the most crucial times. We replaced three ministers, even a fellow Bandelli, who had previously had a position, now he is no longer in the Chamber, even once he was a little weary in front of the National Assembly, that I do not know who destroyed him, the President of the Government, or whether he was destroyed by the media. This same Member, in the most difficult situation at the time of his independence in the 1930s, was able to see to the government the Ministry of Economics, and I do not know who he can even obtain the mask. But time is delayed, and a year and a half in the key area, you've replaced three ministers. I'm saying this because I doubt that's what this is all about. Time is money. Of course, this is where we get another billion for infrastructure if we fall from the sky. Are we capable of bringing things into space, as I said in the first place? In the previous government, they measured one wall, I don't know, somewhere in Styrian, one year, whether it's 25 meters long or 8 meters deep. Second track. Procedures, complaints. I have a big question about when we can start with a third developmental axis, if we have such regulations, and I do not blame the previous government, but I want to say that the SDS has not been able to work seriously in this area for ten years. How we're going to put the projects into space in five, ten years, I'm afraid. But today, when we talk about this budget fund, the proposaler was, of course, in the previous government. When the first snow fell, your leader, I think it was one Monday, started snowing for the first time, left the bus driver and said he wasn't driving anymore. And remember, when we are in the SDS, when it was in preparation for the 2020 budget, 2021, they keep repeating, more needs to be given for infrastructure. This same proposal for 2020 is earmarked for 179 million totals of 6, i.e. 33 million less than last year. You're experts, and you've given less money. Of this is signed, but you knew well about 181 contracts, so you predicted less money when there were already signed contracts, there were 7.8 million bids. And for 7 million project documents, you cut the budget. Understand who can. For the year 2021, commitments have now been made for 122 million. Not even New Slovenia, when it runs the current ministry, neither SDS nor Desus SMC can help in this situation. Leave time to the young team and to Slovenian experts so that we can build infrastructure. Today's proposal, I repeat, is dishonest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u258	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! Let me start with two facts. My birth home is half a meter from an important state road, and before I was born, my father went to ask if it was worth investing in an existing building because it was careful to bring it down. Well, I've already made some investments in him. Of course, the facility is still standing. The second fact is that there was an increase in VAT percentage points in 2013. That's right. So, and rate 20 has been raised, you have increased to 22 and level 8.5 to 9.5 says we in Slovenia have two levels of value added tax. Well, these two facts are the basis on which it was based, and this envisaged law is based. However, this law has much to do with the parties of Alenka Bratušek, one because she was an infrastructure minister, and the other because she was also in her time, it is said, there was an increase in the VAT rate. And of course, now back, for a kind move, he wants to somehow declare two very important subjects that cover every human being. Thus, road infrastructure is such and different and VAT rate. In fact, when VAT was raised, I, as an entrepreneur, was very affected at the time because I am mainly dealing with tax-free persons and it was a smooth net increase in the rate. But if we are now going to count on your amounts and your understanding when you talk about percentage points, what did the law provide? Two percentage points of grade 22 and one of grade 9 and a half. How did you get that amount? If lady, I'm still good at math, it means when a fellow Member from New Slovenia calculated really 2% of account 70.4 billion 188. This is a value added tax in the budget still in force, amounting to 83 million. This 83 million will be won by this government when it no longer works, if it is 2%. Government officials said it could be 77 because they already have more accurate data. So to write 2 percentage points in the law, those who were probably from 22, that's how I imagine, because then we get about 270 million. So you forgot that we have two VAT rates. Because if we go to the whole amount, we say that's 22, like you said, we get that, then we get 380 million. So if we're counting on the total VAT of 22 out of 4 billion, we're going to get 380 million. This is a total of 9% of all tax revenues. That is why the Slovenian Democratic Party opposes because it is a significant, really large amount if we count on yours in times when it will be very necessary to watch for every euro where it will go wisely. However, road infrastructure is important for this government and is indisputable for this Prime Minister. This has been proven in the past, so he is not afraid. A colleague also said the financial structure and which projects had already been confirmed before, so I am not afraid that it will not enter the road infrastructure and thus start the economy without being carried out. So, yes, it's going to have to be more precise and I think you've forgotten that, too, really, two levels, which amount, a large percentage. If we take only 270, that's 3% of the total. You know, we're talking about 1% in the military field, and it's already a scream and a scream. So, yes, a nice move and nothing else, this government will certainly save all this infrastructure by road, especially by gaining confidence and not by running away from all of us Members and politicians of all colours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u260	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm a little disappointed in this supplement, we're a little down, we're getting out of the marriage, and we start with some accuser, someone, sometimes, hasn't prepared how much someone thought and how. Look, more or less from all the debates, I am pursuing that this infrastructure fund is needed for stable financing. Now I'm going to say very slowly, and it was wonderful to listen to the Love of the Gnieder, a new colleague who, in his words, knows what he's talking about. And he repeated the thesis, and then we made a mistake, because it doesn't matter who was in the government, who was working. You know, it's the government, and you're going to have trouble with the ministers on a case-by-case basis to pick a quota. Because this fund was already prepared, only this one in the government was a coalition then and it is said not to be now, will come later. Is that right? Then the Secretary of State will know how this is happening and you're out of line. So there's some accusation that it's in the opposition now that we have a chance to do this without arguing with coalition partners. [[…]] So it's perfectly normal and they've been investing, I think these are obvious, they're actually out of place and we're moving away from the darkness. We need an infrastructure fund. We do not just need road, especially rail, for railways, a green breakthrough, as my fellow Reich has said, we need. Since the railway is the future, it is not a road, the railway is the future of green Slovenia, and we are trying to do so. After talking to the railroad leaders and colleagues have plans, I've been looking at things, they say, they'd only need 2 billion investments, 2 billion investments, could be undervalued, 2 billion years, 7 years to build a two-hour Koper-Maribor connection. [[Incomprehensible]] That means some tunnels to run, some transversals, and these things, that's what I've been watching. That's what those in it say. That is why we need such a fund to go, to be stable, to prepare plans and to do something. We also have an experience, a clear and loud experience, of what happened when we stopped the highway construction program. That's what my colleague Znydar said, because the companies were failing because there was no work left, they couldn't do anything. Let's invest in this investment, it's from Keynes. [[?]] Now, economists, we know, the new deal, Roosevelt, when the crisis was resolved, and that's what even now modern macroeconomics are advocating. Let's see, let's see, let's make this marriage, let's make it happen twice. It doesn't matter now which party, he said they tried, we didn't go through. Come on, it can be amended, improved, let's go substantively, and let's be statescapable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u261	Thank you very much. As the last one gets the word Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u262	Thank you. The railway is perspective, it means sustainable development, it helps to preserve nature, clean air and clean water. In fact, we need a fast railway, as much as the trend allows. In fact, the railway was very neglected in the past. I am also thinking about Ljubljana, which needs a new railway station, which is a disgrace to Ljubljana, as well as to this part of Europe. This needs to be arranged. The newly built highway cross needs permanent additions and updates, and since the overcoating of the third lane sites, the greening of the area between the directions of the road makes night driving more comfortable. We need road repairs, not in the tourist season, I hope. Investment in road transport, and in particular rail infrastructure, I support and support the basic idea that this needs to be regulated, I truly, truly support. But I'm thinking about investing private capital, and I don't think it's at all controversial, even though interest is high. If the purchase or income from the sale of the utility exceeds the amount of the interest, then the loan is not a problem for which interest is to be paid. I think the order has to be rational, the investment can't be overpaid, even if someone outside Slovenia gets the job. The value must be rational and real. What I see as an obstacle is what the Secretary of State said. If this is just about renaming a cash flow, i.e. VAT, which is running into the budget anyway, this year and the following year, then this means that it is actually just another name and the sum is the same. Moreover, as the Secretary of State says, you can’t channel VAT then only, the VAT works can be channelled for only one purpose, but probably for all purposes again. I think the idea of a fund is good, but it is necessary to think about the legal basis as well as how to obtain new sources of funding, because if it is only budget funding, it is clear whether the issue remains in some of the development programmes where we confirm them within the budget, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u263	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, and we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 18th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Nicely greeted.
