ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 45th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Ferenc Horváth, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Jerca Korče, Robert Polnar until 3 p.m. and Primož Siter from 2 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. I invited Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša to the first and second agenda items, Minister of Finance to the 1st agenda, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr Aleksandro Pivec to the 2nd agenda and representatives of the Government to both agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 45th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 2 October 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda or for the extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 45th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. agenda item 2021-2022, the proposal amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2021 and the proposal for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2022. We are moving to the first part of the reading and adoption of the Draft Amendment of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 and the Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 in the National Assembly. Pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance will present the budget memorandum 2021-2022, the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 and the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022. There is no debate on this presentation. I give the floor to Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša to present these budgetary documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear High Choir! We have recently explained the balance of the budget for this year, which was, of course, a crisis in view of the situation that we had in the spring and which is still in part, and this time, the budget documents for the next two years are much more optimistic. Some more specific figures are later discussed in more detail by the Minister of Finance. In this introduction, on my part, it is merely an attempt to present this framework from the Budget Memorandum, which in fact reflects our ability on one hand or our resilience to overcome the situation in which we found ourselves this year because of the epidemic and we are growing again. Now, on the other hand, to try to take advantage of some of the opportunities that have been offered at the edge of solving this epidemic and that can be covered by the words of the European funds. In the years to come, the Republic of Slovenia will have the most resources available from these sources so far, and with these resources, we can fix on the one hand many things or patch up a number of gaps that have emerged this year and, on the other hand, heal some old investment wound. For this year, as you have already learned more about this in the discussion in the budget balance, domestic and foreign institutions are forecasting a fall in gross domestic product, according to the latest figures of 6,7 %. For the next year, we are forecast to have significant growth, over 5%, and then over 3% for 2022. Which means that if we do this, for the first time in the history of the country we can count on Slovenia's gross domestic product to exceed EUR 50 billion in 2022. This is a number that, decades ago, during an economic or financial crisis, we probably could not even dream of doing a projection for the next two years, or for 2021 and 2022, which we are now talking about in terms of the presentation of budgetary documents. This 5.1% growth forecast for next year makes it possible to invest extensively in all those sectors where we are undernutrition. This is mainly about health care and the protection of the elderly and also about investing in digitisation, in knowledge, in all that Slovenia can do in future rises above the European average. These funds are significant, but not all given facts. For this reason, the risks ahead of us must be mentioned at this presentation. When it comes to risks for our domestic resources, these risks stem mainly from vague responses to when we will get a functioning, tested, available vaccine and/or a successful medicine for the coronary virus. I cannot give you an answer to this question even after a large debate at the end of last week in the European Council, where the European Summit has been very busy, where we have dealt with this issue a lot. We all hope that it will be as soon as possible, but accurate forecasts are not available, and some of our partner countries in the European Union are taking measures with validity by the end of the first half of next year, which of course means that we need to be careful here, because the answer to this question depends on how unhindered normal life will go forward, how unhindered we will produce, how unhindered we will finally get into the state budget, how other cash countries will recover. For the time being, the situation regarding these risks in Slovenia, I will say what is optimistic about the European average, but it is worse because the measures that have been introduced so far and are softer in nature than in spring have not been taken. In the case of sharper measures, which will necessarily happen if we do not take these into account, of course, this will also be known by logic at the fall in production, in particular some service sectors will be further affected and this will affect the condition of our economy, society as a whole and consequently also revenue in the coming year. This is a domestic risk that we can largely avoid, and it is in our hands primarily in terms of judgment, responsible conduct. The answer to the question now is how high the price will be, given that the whole of Europe is practically in the second wave of covida-19, knowledge, the risk of European resources, which will theoretically be available in the coming years at a much larger scale than ever before, and the answer to the question of these external risks is double. Firstly, it is a question of whether we will be able – I am talking about Europe as a whole – to take all the implementing measures necessary to actually make these funds available from 1 January next year. Here, when it comes to recovery instruments, once the European Council has reached agreement on the July package, there is now still a need for coordination with the European Parliament and also for the vote in this Chamber and in the 26th Parliaments of the Member States of the European Union, which, of course, in its own words, means that no solution that has been substantially deviated from what was agreed upon by all the countries of July this year will not be on the table, since any change can practically be blocked by everyone, not only the European Parliament, which is much to be said, but also by the national parliaments. In this case, delays will be reduced or increased in some items of the European funds, which may also cause material greater damage than is possible for a small number of reasons. The second part of the risk related to these additional funds, with this large possibility of additional oxygen for our faster recovery and development, is, of course, in our hands, because in order to be able to, say, draw not only in the next three years, but to invest more than 5 billion 200 million from European funds productively, we have to go to hundreds of different bureaucratic barriers in this country, otherwise these resources will be a hugely simple option. The Government's Strategic Council for Debarcation has prepared the first package, which is extensive, followed by others. The condition that these European funds will be invested productively and in real time in Slovenia is that most of the proposals in this package, in particular those directly related to long-term procedures, to doubling procedures, to unnecessary entanglement, to deciding on multiple levels in complicated relations, most of them must be taken under the roof also in this national assembly for the next six months, otherwise a large part of these funds will remain only an option. The measures that we have taken in the four anti-crisis packages so far and the measures that are on your tables in the framework of the fifth package, which we will take as a crisis, could be called the first step towards greater resilience and recovery even this year. With these packages, these measures have greatly reduced the negative economic and social consequences of the epidemic. Due to the number of jobs retained, because we do not have in front of us the drastic numbers on unemployment, as we had at the time of the last economic and financial crisis, we can count that if these macro-economic indicators are reached 5,1 % next year and 3,7 then the following year, 2022, the pressure on social transfers will be significantly lower than it was this year, and that the resources in the budgets for both years will actually be more so or possibly even higher for investments. If you compare the draft budget for next year with the budget for next year, which was adopted last year, in 2019, before the epidemic, then you will find that virtually most of the items, especially on the development, money more, money more, despite the fact that this year is a crisis. A large part of this increase can be attributed to two reasons: one is the fact that we are at least so far and that we are doing everything we can to keep the economy and society stable until the end of this year at a level where there will be no drastic falls and, on the other hand, the European resources already described. According to some data, or according to official but not comprehensive data, the savings of the population in Slovenia increased during this year as well. Thus, they have been significant here before, and now there are additional capital stocks in the hands of Slovenian citizens. As much as this capital is invested solely in banks in the form of savings deposits, and much of it, whether in some other forms that do not bring much to savers, this is actually double damage, this is double damage to the untapped capital for the individual who has it, on the other hand, these billions, and this is about tens of billions, but they are not productively involved in the strategy of greater resilience and development of the country. And one of the challenges for the government in the coming year is to agree on, study and also propose instruments through which this capital could also be placed as faster or offered to people, owners, individuals, that this capital is earmarked either for larger infrastructure projects or for some other national projects, in order to achieve these goals or achievements more quickly as a society, and, on the other hand, savers would have more of that capital than they have today in terms of low or even negative interest policies. Let there be so much in this explanation above all a memorandum, while the Minister of Finance will present the figures. And when you look at the numbers on individual items for next year, you will see that before you there are optimistic, developmental and at the same time social, sustainable, forward-looking budgets, that the resources we anticipate for all these development and other policies are realistic, that, with a small difference in these potential procedural complications that I have been talking about in the European Recovery Fund, the doors to these resources in our hands and that it is largely dependent on our conduct, whether the next two years will actually be a quick recovery, building greater resilience of society for similar challenges as this epidemic, and at the same time the new developmental momentum of Slovenia for the future. With these words, I also invite all of you to seriously engage in the debate, to see the whole, not just individual items, and to take together a truly quality development package of budgetary documents for the next two years, which will not only be an incentive for all those who are trying to make these optimistic figures real in these difficult times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister of Finance, mags. Andrei Širclja for further presentation of the budget memorandum 2021-2022, Draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Honourable President of the Government, ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! The budget memorandum for the period 2021-2022 provides a fundamental framework for the preparation of state budgets for the next two years and sets guidelines for the functioning of the Government in the management of public finances and the management of economic and development policies. Economic and public financial policy for 2021 and 2022 represent, for the first time, a response and action to the acute situation, secondly, a focus on recovery and strengthening economic resilience while at the same time caring for people's well-being. In doing so, we anticipate that the budgets are prepared in circumstances of great unpredictability and associated risks, both in terms of the epidemic and the consequences for the economy and public finances. The macroeconomic assessments and forecasts made by Umar show optimism, with 6.7% of economic activity falling in 2020 to 5.1% of gross social product growth in 2021 and 3.7% of economic growth in 2020 in the next two years. The assessment of compliance with the fiscal rules for 2020 is subject to exceptional circumstances. At European Union level, there is a broad consensus among Member States that fiscal policy should continue to promote recovery in 2021. To this end, and because of all the uncertainty about the spread of the virus and the social and economic consequences, the European Commission has announced that a general derogation clause will continue to apply in 2021. At the same time, the Fiscal Rule Act provides for exceptional circumstances in which a derogation from the medium-term balance of public finances is made possible. Due to the presence of the virus, certain restrictive measures to control its spread remain in force, so recovery will be gradual and uneven. We expect an increase in investment activity both due to the start-up of investments and the recovery in the international environment and the use of additional European means of the recovery and resilience mechanism. We expect growth, change of wealth to heal faster. The exchange of services, mainly related to travel, transport and leisure, will be normalised after a more permanent outbreak of virus spread. The labour market situation will gradually improve. The adoption of job conservation intervention measures has made an important contribution to the preservation of employment. In the light of the exceptional circumstances which allow for a derogation from fiscal rules, the Government proposed a change to the regulation in the work relating to 2021 and 2022. An increase in the ceiling on public budget expenditure will allow for the implementation of measures to limit the negative effects of covid-19 and more effective EU funding. The recovery and resilience of the economy on the one hand and the development and investment on the other hand are key guides in the preparation of budgets and economic policies for the years 2021 and 2022. In the coming years, Slovenia has available additional resources within the framework of the Next Generation instrument which it can use for the purpose of controlling the epidemic and recovering the economy. This appropriation is intended to cover reforms and investments supporting the arrival in a green, digital and knowledge-based society. At the same time, the financial perspective 2014 and 2020, which has raised delays in the collection of funds over the past years, is also running out. Therefore, a much more extensive use of cohesion funds is planned than has been the case in recent years. The development component is also prominent in the planning of integrated budget resources, where in the field of investment and investment transfers increased funds are mainly in areas where funding is to a lesser extent provided for by additional European funds. Both an integrated and a European part also increases for investment in transport infrastructure and investment in culture, environment and health. While expressing developmental orientation and the potential for using European resources, the planned economic policy also preserves social attitudes and the care of the elderly through the budget. The revenue of the state budget in 2021 will increase by 16.7% according to the planned 2020 budget balance. For 2022, we expect 2.6% growth in revenue, mainly at the expense of the higher funds received from the European Union budget. The budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 totals 10.7 billion revenue, of which EUR 8.4 billion is tax revenue, EUR 568 million of non-tax revenue and EUR 1.6 billion of funds received from the European Union budget. The planned expenditure of the state budget for 2021 is planned at EUR 13 billion 468 million and is 77 million higher than the 2020 budget balance. There is a marked increase in EU expenditure, where a marked increase in drawdown is planned both at national and local level. The next Generation will play an important role in this regard, above all, in the European Union's Next Generation instruments. Slovenia is expected to receive an additional €5.4 billion from the Next Generation instrument under the programmes, of which €3.6 billion in loans and €1.8 billion in grants. Slovenia is expected to receive the largest share of grants from the new recovery and emergency resistance mechanism, namely € 1.6 billion. However, for 2022 expenditure is reduced by 6,5 % and 900 million, depending on 2021. The budget for 2022 shows a certain fiscal effort. As a result, the state budget balance will improve, both due to expected revenue growth and the impact of measures and investments on the expenditure side that will generate economic growth and consumption. The government budget deficit is thus planned at €2.7 billion or 5.6% of gross social product in 2021 and €1 billion in 593 million and 3.1% of gross social product in 2022. The deficit is thus decreasing in the next two years, both nominally and as a percentage of gross social product. In the structure of the state budget, the 16% share is earmarked for salaries and labour costs, 15% for investment expenditure and transfers, and 12% for transfer to PPIZ and transfers to individuals and households. In view of the adopted budget 2021 and the adopted budget 2022, this draft budget raises funds for all users by 23.4 per cent, by 92.1 per cent and by 10.6 per cent. The programme structure of the state budget has the highest increase in health care resources, namely €257.4 million, transport and transport infrastructure by €254.7 million, and environmental and environmental infrastructure protection by €251 million. For more than a third, funds for science and the information society and for entrepreneurship and competitiveness are also increasing in 2021. In 2021 an additional 774 million expenditure is planned for cots, including a 500 million reserve planned for the first time, because of the unpredictability of the situation and for financing measures under PKP5. 115 million is foreseen for European funds under the REACT programme, 77 million for security equipment, vaccines, testing, 17 million for tourist vouchers, which are expected to be paid in 2021, 40 million for supplies and so on. In 2022 there were no planned expenditures for covid. The state budget will continue to provide additional funds to the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, namely a transfer of over 337 million in 2021 and a billion 291 million in 2022. The budget will continue to finance health-care stores, and those measures resulting from the pandemic will also provide additional funds to the health insurance company in 2021. Also, in 2021 the congregations will receive 83 million more and, consequently, in 2022. Compared to the adopted budget for 2021, over 250 million funds are being increased for health care, as well as for transport and transport infrastructure, environmental protection and environmental infrastructure. It is also important to draw attention to the country's debt, as we know, is estimated at 82.4% of gross social product for 2020. The debt is expected to fall to 80,9 % of the gross social product in 2021 and 79,3 % of the gross social product in 2022. In other words, the debt will be reduced by 3 percentage points over the next two years, while the state will in turn settle all current liabilities. Let me also draw attention here to the assessments of some rating agencies that assess the stability and prospects of Slovenia, and here I can say that all credit rating agencies in this year have held back the assessments that were in place in the previous period or even increased them. This means that Slovenia remains a credible country for investors and, of course, for others in these difficult times. The last rating was issued at the end of the previous week and actually increased the credit rating of the Republic of Slovenia. These ratings are mainly affected by two factors. One is the improvement in the burden of public debt and the low price of debt financing compared to comparable countries. Another factor is the significantly improved state of the banking system, in particular the stability of the banking system and, of course, the solvency or liquidity. The international agencies also assess that the covid-19 pandemic will not have a significant impact on the public finances of the Member States of the European Union as well as on the state of Slovenia and that the economy is resistant to the effects of the crisis and that public finances remain stable and banks are liquid. Allow me to conclude by saying that in 2021 and 2022 we can expect an increase in economic activity, the start of investments, we also expect economic recovery in the international environment, the growth of goods exchange and the improvement of the labour market. As a result of the measures taken by the Government, jobs are kept and contribute significantly to the employment rate. These measures will play an important role in European funds aimed at reforming the transition to a green, digital and knowledge-based society. The government will devote additional resources to health care and thus improve the quality of health services, and will also provide social security for people. In doing so, it will pay particular attention to science, the information society and improve the conditions for entrepreneurship and, of course, improve the competitiveness of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u5	Thank you very much. This concludes the presentation of the budget memorandum 2021-2022, the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022. I thank the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance for his presentation. Today's presentation starts with the deadline for the submission of amendments to the Proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 and to the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022. Members and Members, Members of the Parliament, interested working bodies and the Government may make amendments to the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 no later than three days before the meeting of the National Assembly, at which the draft amending budget will be considered, and may submit amendments to the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 to the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia until 15 October 2020. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 45th extraordinary meeting of the assembly in 30 minutes. We will continue the meeting at 3 p.m. and 10 minutes, starting at 2 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.38 p.m. and resumed at 15.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u6	Dear colleagues, we continue with the adjourned session. And we're going to 2. At the end of the day, it's a proposal for the resolution of Dr. Alexander's beer, the Department of Agriculture, Agriculture and Food. Under Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 13 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša proposed to the National Assembly on 1 October 2020 that Dr. Aleksandro Pivec should be dismissed as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Aleksandri Pivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u7	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members, colleague of the Minister, distinguished citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! As of today, we have come to the conclusion of the long period of media and political discredits of Aleksandra Pivec, which has apparently become a disruptive element of Slovenian political space. It is difficult to find an example of such a planned and downtrodden breakdown of individual policies in the history of independent Slovenia. It has been stepping down since the nomination for the president of the party until today, when I am also resigning from the post of Minister. For this you deserve special recognition by organisers, while taxpayers and voters take a look at the background of the backstage game, where only personal interests are considered, and the needs of the state and society are put in the background. I am relieved because I have given priority in my work to the real problems of simple people, devoted myself to farmers, foresters, fishermen, craftsmen, older people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In my work, I did not give priority to meeting the political and party interests and the narrow interests of political elites. However, we are responsible for the well-being of citizens. You expected more ratings from me for individuals in the party and other political elites. This is clearly recognized as a mistake. In my opinion, this is not a mistake, but it should become a model of the action of any serious policy. Together with my colleagues, I have done my work to a large extent in the field, where the only way to get to know problems and hardships is to listen to people's suggestions and to find the right solutions in dialogue with them. I did the ministry's job 365 days a year, including between weekends and holidays. And here come the sins that you read to me. The biggest sin is that I took advantage of opportunities and devoted time to children and families during the weekend during my individual work obligations. I'm a politician, but I'm a mom. As a result, the children were exposed to the media and I was exposed to the media and political lynching. A few slices of ham, a glass of the terrace and our night are now the biggest corruption scandal in Slovenia. Dear colleagues, did you see in this that corruption in Slovenia lose almost as much money as it is intended for the health or care of the elderly, that during this time millions of debts of individuals have been written off, that we have stopped dealing with corruption in health care? These types of corruption obviously do not present you with a problem worth discussing. And here let us not close our eyes – my very fight against corruption in Slovenian forests, the discovery of the theft of timber from them, is one of the main reasons why you demand my resolution. My solution is to keep the matter from coming to an end. You are also not interested in the achievements and the work we have done at the Ministry at that time, such as: the budget of the ministry increased by EUR 143 million, or 37%, over the duration of my mandate, and allocated them to Slovenian farmers or rural development; despite the projected large reduction in European funds for the coming period, we have even managed to increase it through difficult and long-term negotiations; we have prepared amendments to the agricultural legislation to allow easier access to land for smaller family farms that have driven Slovenian agriculture; we have amended the European resource drawback regulations, which have contributed to 86% of the funds so far successfully absorbed and allows 100% of the resources to be spent until the end of the programming period. The outstanding achievements, and all the others that we cannot present because of the time limit, are obviously nothing to the Members of Desus who propose my discharge. However, I am sure that many among you can appreciate what has been achieved, for which I sincerely thank you. Based on the responses from the field, I know that my work and the work of my team are appreciated by those to whom our attention has been directed. Many of my planned projects, which Slovenia and the Slovenian countryside need, remain unfinished, so I will consider how in the future I can also help to develop the countryside, to which most of the political public have so far behaved machete and greatly underestimated it. My withdrawal thus does not mean the end of my political action, but represents only a challenge for a fresh start.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u8	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u9	Good day to you all! It is not fair for a particular political party to use the country for its internal struggles. That's not how you do things with the state. No matter who's behind those pressures, that's not how you deal with the country. The fact is that — in my opinion and as it turns out from the various towers — there are two people on the issue, in fact three people, two of whom are Erjavec and Jankovic. Whether they want to destroy the Desus party or want to cover up certain matters, along with certain colleagues from the SD, and those timber thefts in Kočev, which have triggered a number of cases and movements in the Desus party. After all, if we look at who's the leader of the Desus party, who's been banging all the possible cannons after, for now, the minister, Pivčev, it was Mr Jurša. And he made a minus in the company in Ljutomer, 700,000 euros minus, as president of sugar beet growers, was first signed to close it all down. One would wonder if he might know Ivan Tomažič from when he was mayor and when he was building here and there and around. In short, this man raised the issue of corruption because the minister, as she said, ate a couple of ham slices and slept there in Isola at the expense of the congregation. However, since each congregation has its own representative fund, from which it honors everyone who comes there, or certain people who come there, and who will do well for the congregation, who will raise the congregation a little higher than you, the minister has come to visit us and so on. The position of the minister means something and it is clear that even if some party presidents walked almost every Sunday after various rural tourism and ate and drank free of charge, and no one, then it is basically a mess to bring down the minister because of one such matter. And if we look at the forest situation in Kocev, it's millions of euros, a few million euros, it's nothing. But when it comes to 400 euros, now I don't know what kind of corruption scandal he doesn't have. In general, corruption in Slovenia is a very widespread concept, but if we look at where and by whom, we will come up with any other names, not the name of Mrs. Pivcheva. After all, if we look at what people on the ground are saying, and I have to say that our Members are not many of us, but we are walking on the ground, the responses to her work are positive, positive, people love her, people say they are doing well. But it is true that it does not work well for those who want to privatize some forests and continue to sell wood in black for their private pockets. I don't think it's right to do that. It is not right that the State is the hostage of a political party, which itself does not realize that doing so is destroying its own party. And given the way things are going not only in Slovenia, but in general in the political world, Desus will no longer be in Parliament in the next term. But the gentlemen are not aware of this. They don't know they shot each other in the knee. But well, that's their business, and they'll take it away. The ones who whispered to them, they're not real. But all right, listen to them, listen to them, and in the end you will reap what they have sown to you, not what you wanted to do. Today I am sure that Mrs Pivcheva will be removed from the ministerial position. Someone new is already getting ready, which is being pushed by the Desus party, of course. Let's say a call, if you already want a new minister, why don't you give it to Mr. Polnar, who is certainly the most competent of all in Desus. This man would have made even more order than Mrs Pivcheva, but that is probably not the intention to make order or to make any more adjustments. I'll say again that the people with Minister Pivcheva are pleased on the ground. And yet it's collapsing. If we look at and think about what might be behind here, it is also interesting that Mrs Pivchev's actions are being dealt with by criminals in Cyprus and that he is speaking in the coastal area, that he should be the prosecutor of the current Minister Gantar. I hope that's not true. But if this was meant to be, then it would make sense that this case is being corrected and given to another prosecutor. We can't drive Slovenia the way gentlemen did until a while ago. 30 years of this country's leadership has led us to this state that we have today. And that's not a good situation. This situation needs to be rectified. Not by a directive to tear down someone, in order to bring down Desus is the first step in bringing down the current government. That's the first step. And various discussions with various Members in various political options here in Parliament are quite lively. Now, as successful as these talks will be, it's hard to say. But they're happening. And the beginning had to be made somewhere and it started with the client Desus. Unfortunately, Desus is so unstable that he swallowed the thorn they hung on him, I don't know what. They're just gonna pay for it the way they're gonna pay it. I also think that the fact that she was replaced by the president of the party is none of my business, but I'm thinking and talking to the party that it wasn't a good thing either. Because there can be a great surprise at the congress and Mrs Pivcheva will be re-elected as the party president. Then what? Will Members of Desus withdraw from Parliament and replace their positions with alternate Members or what they will do? Things are interesting and things are not going as some in Desus expect or some in Desus would like. It's true that it's their business, but I think that a lot of smart political acquaintances are accompanied by laughter, some even with laughter. Things aren't easy. There's gonna be a lot of stuff halfway around. I know that Mrs Pivcheva has also had certain things prepared to enable farmers, one such thing is to say that they will be able to put at home to a greater extent than they are now, so that we will not have to follow those European recommendations that hit small farmers on the head. It would also make sense to regulate the fact that farmers can sell their products in a more simplified way, as in Austria, so that certain matters in rural tourism can be regulated by flat-rate taxation and so on. But I don't know if the next minister will. I doubt that. For by the end of the term there is a year and a half, about, and at that time it will be difficult to get into the ministerial position first, to get into a job that is not enough, and then to do what someone would like. Neither I nor the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will confirm the discharge of Mrs Pivcheva. We'll probably be the only ones. But we have our own line, we are thinking with our own head, and above all we are looking at the benefits of Slovenia. Perhaps more to the benefit of Slovenia or certainly more to Slovenia than to the benefit of political options within Slovenia. We are aware that we have only one country, that we have only one country, that the country is being hit by migrants, that migrants are being hit by migrants, that everyone who is capable is being hit, and that the European Union, in the end, has made its own stupid recommendations, which our country respects more than any other country within the European Union. Other countries read such recommendations, see if they are good for them, and if they are good for them, they accept them, but otherwise they say, okay, we will fix, put two branches, one sub-base and say, because we implemented a slightly changed case. The fact is, we can't go like this. We must say no in certain areas, thank you, we will not take it, we will not respect it, we have our own common sense. The fact is that Slovenia has better rules on certain, especially agriculture than the European Union, which has complicated everything and has made a single coalition that many no longer understand. Then, of course, they correct what they did wrong. They make mistakes because they are around, say, in the European Parliament and between the Commissioners, about as ignorant as some of us in Parliament, and that is what is hitting the European Union and, above all, hitting the country of Slovenia. I'll say it again. We won't support the Minister's desire to drop out. But I think we'll be able to congratulate her at the Congress, after the Desus Congress, because she's going to be president again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and will be presented by Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u11	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, all together a nice greeting! In the SDS Group, we respect the desire or will of the coalition partner to relieve the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandra Pivec. From this place, we would like to thank Dr. Aleksandri Pivec in the SDS Group for his effective, correct and, in particular, concrete work in the field of the director, because in the SDS Group we estimate that some work has been done, some work has been done, and some good extensions are prepared for the successor of Dr. Pivcheva. We also want with the new Minister to continue the important stories that agriculture needs in Slovenia. Once again, thank you, Dr. Alexander Pivec, for all the work you've done.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. The position will be presented by Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u13	The political saga that we have witnessed in recent months, directed by Prime Minister Janez Janša and played by Mrs Pivec, will end today. Today's speedy discharge by the Minister is also due to the interpellation that we have filed with the opposition against the Minister in the List of Marjan Šarc and the main reasons why he has to leave. Let me rephrase them: violation of the law, suspicion of abuse of the official position, imprudent action, non-compliance with ethical standards. We can also add to this the ignoring of the dignity, standards, respect and expected behaviour of a high political official. However, Mrs Pivec still believes that she has done nothing wrong. All right. Today, this period will end in a democratic way, as envisaged by the Constitution, the law and the rules of procedure, by the resolution or its withdrawal. According to John Janš’s explanation for the solution, we could understand that he himself does not understand what went wrong. But that's not likely. The Prime Minister knew exactly where this saga was going. He knew how it would affect the customer Desus and thus divert attention from the essential problems, even from the fact that his Slovenian government did not sufficiently prepare for the second wave of the epidemic. This fact cannot be hidden anymore. And Aleksandra Pivec did more than conceal herself as an unethical politician. She also failed professionally and completely ignored her portfolio. We have not adopted any legislation in Parliament in the field of agriculture, forestry or nutrition. The exceptions were only two novelties of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting and the Law on the Protection of Animals. And these two novels have only aligned themselves with the European acquis. True, promised substantive changes have never been addressed by Members. Also because of the lack of experience in her field, the Minister must step down. But there's no point in blinding ourselves to the Minister's release if Alexandra Pivec was a member of the SDS. I wouldn't. The lady has forgotten that she is a member of Desus, so without the resistance of Members of Desus we would not have succeeded. The members and bodies of Desus recognized the unethical conduct and suspicion of violations of legislation with their president and minister. All of this took too long, including because of the President of the Government. And the client suffered a great deal of damage, which will make it difficult to recover. But the important thing is that they resisted their presidents. The role of the Desus Group was thus crucial. Their presidents gave up their support first and thus set an example of the upright state of the Members, regardless of pressure, direction or direction. Dear fellow Members of Desus, Jurša, Hršak, Simonovic, Beauty and Polnar, you have protected your client from moral, ethical and factual disintegration. A Aleksandra Pivec was also a representative of the government, who could be attributed to her unethical conduct, governmental arrogance, conduct according to the principle of the State, it was me, exclusion of profession, deception, intimidation, destruction of public finances, public health, brutal recruitment into all systems of society. This government is slowly becoming the government of one party. You can't miss it anymore. In the coming weeks, you may also have the courage to protect the country from the symptoms of this government that characterize them in addition to your former president, including Aleš Hojs, Andrej Vizjak, Zdravko Restoršek, Vasko Simoniti, Jelko Kacin, Milan Krk, Vinko Gorenak and others, not to mention the Prime Minister. Enough silence when the hostage is a state. There is sufficient silence and cooperation with SDS due to one or two good projects. The interests of a single party must never be more important than those of citizens and citizens of that country who wake up in a more autonomous country from day to day. The actions and actions of this government harm the state and people. After what you've done, you can't and can't be quiet anymore. If you have been able to put the party's interest before the individual's interest, we believe that you are capable of putting the interests of the State and people before your party. Let us finally add that it is sad that in a good half-years from a safe, peaceful, stable, economically successful and democratic state we have plunged into total chaos in all areas. We are witnessing the disassembly of the state and all its subsystems, the denial of rights, totalitarian aspirations, the adoption of institutions and supervision in state-owned enterprises and societies, the decadence is happening, media freedom is shrinking, hate speech is normalized, disinformation is spreading, people are scared, honey, condemnation. Our public services are collapsing. Health care is due to co-vid on the edge of capacity, to education, to the death of entire sectors of economic activity due to lack of aid because they do not benefit this government. From culture, for example, there are no shares to which market liberalisation would increase value. In every normal democratic country, the whole government would back down on its own with such devastating results. In every normal democratic country, the Minister would have given up such a large list of charges on her own a long time ago. Thus, today we are witnessing only a vote on the resolution, which we will certainly support in the List of Marjan Šarc, and thus again we have said that we cannot cooperate with such a radical government, but we will demoralise it in a democratic way.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, distinguished president, colleague and colleague! We have prepared quite a few things in the Group of Social Democrats, but I will make a difference. Today, every word this month in politics when it comes to dignity is, in fact, unworthy. With everything seen, in this case, the parties of Desus and its former president would not, and I will not go into the details and burden the Slovenian public, citizens and citizens with the events of the past months. We have all seen everything, in fact, the Desus party will have to solve its problems on its own, without the help of external partners, I advise, best behind closed doors, and I sincerely wish them all the best. I am also aware that for each customer, colleague and colleague, there will sometimes be a period of major trials, either with regard to management or with regard to the position of the party on the inside or on the outside. And that's when the client gets a big media focus. Or rather than expecting a result that, according to the views of the SDS and probably coalition partners, I hope to say that it is already known that Dr Aleksandra Pivec will no longer be Minister of Agriculture, it is sad to say something else. It is sad that this ignorance is also those of the most minimal legalitys by the highest political officials, which we should have for the sake of accountability to people and to our country, to our country, and this responsibility which is not and is not in sight. We have a minister who wants to resign, but he can't, we have a minister or a minister who wants to stay, and he can't. Therefore, let me point out that there will be no winner today after this debate, Minister. We'll all be losers in the end. All those who are in politics. I fear, however, that, above all, the losers will be citizens and citizens. Although today's resolution is primarily the instrument of the coalition and the reasons for it is the ability to seek elsewhere than the reasons for the interpretation against Minister Pivčeva, the two can end up giving us the same outcome, namely, the story with the Minister is over. I would not like to be too much of a teacher or anything, but, indeed, Minister, I would like to suggest in good faith that I have already been in this situation and that some of us in this Chamber have already been in such a situation that this saga, Minister, should you conclude yourselves and in the views of the parliamentary groups in some simple manner, if you can say so, give up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. The position will be presented by Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u17	It is in the nature of parliamentary democracy that the government is constituted in agreement and in accordance with this parliamentary majority, which elects a mandate-holder and thus a ministerial assembly. On 25 February, a coalition agreement on cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was signed between the parties to the coalition for the remainder of the mandate period 2020 to 2022. We have committed ourselves to the decisions taken in the Government and the National Assembly in accordance with the Coalition Treaty and that the Government and the parliamentary majority will implement the programme objectives of this coalition treaty. Whoever has already participated or led the coalition government is aware that cooperation must be based on the principles of equality and partnership and taking responsibility for managing the country. Responsibility has been given to all four coalition parties by the management of individual ministerial departments and by the administration of the country as a whole. On the basis of the agreed cut, the management of the department for agriculture, forestry and nutrition was taken over by the Democratic Party of pensioners of Slovenia or on its behalf by Dr Aleksandra Pivec. At an intermediate station somewhere, the Minister of Agriculture lost her support, first the Members and then the authorities of the party that ran it. In fact, it has lost the trust of a key article that would continue to enable it to work successfully and effectively in managing the agricultural sector and also in implementing all other coalition commitments. Democracy is a living thing. Intra-party relationships shall also inevitably be reflected outwards. It is on the shoulders of each individual to judge, in accordance with his values and beliefs, when it is right or when it would be right to withdraw, because he no longer has the support provided by those who have committed themselves to working in this government for the common good. At the end of the day, it is always the one who shows what is right and what is wrong. And there is no difference in politics. Therefore, in the SMC, we leave the creation of structures on the causes and consequences of today's outcome to others. However, today's proposal by the President of the Government for a discharge is not a witch hunt and it is not a consequence of the coalition's inability to reach an agreement on an honorable resignation. However, this is due to the fact that the Minister does not have the trust of the party's authorities and no longer has the confidence of his own parliamentary group. And in the SMC, we believe that this must be respected. In the SMC, Dr. Aleksandra Pivec and I worked together in these difficult situations, and there is no doubt about it. Therefore, today's vote for its resolution is not aimed at criticising its work in the management of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, our vote for its resolution coincides with the opinion and request of its closest partners, our coalition partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Levica Group, the position will be presented by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u19	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! We have repeatedly stressed in Levica that Mrs Aleksandra Pivec is, by his actions and by his conduct, a symptom of everything that is wrong with this government, with the government of Janez Janša. It is a symptom of the alienation of political elites from people, a symptom of putting their own interests ahead of the interests of the community, a symptom of a policy that defends its corruption and the word of power by all means. The position of Mrs. Pivec in all the affairs she has produced in the last six months is summarized in the sentence: “This belongs to me because I am a politician because I am a minister because I am part of the elite.” All the standards, every marriage and, if you want, even a good taste are something that the elite thinks only ordinary people are committed to. People who work hard for more jobs to connect the beginning and the end of the month. Retired people whose share lives in poverty, who have to pay attention even to what they put on the plate. If you want, there are many self-employed people who have to work and work hard and pay all the contributions and taxes from their work. A lot of people in this country can't afford vacations or trips at all. There are many who have to give up much of their vacation or summer vacations to at least their children. On the other hand, you have someone who, at the expense and under the pretext of his position, exploits public funds and everything that I previously counted, himself and his loved ones provides free of charge and is willing to go into absurdities, denials, disguises, even repairs and constructing accounts. To defend his distorted gaze, a member of the elite deceives and changes stories, lies, manipulates. Why? Because he feels like he belongs to him, and he's willing to do whatever it takes to keep him in position. At first glance, it seems incomprehensible that someone in a ministerial position is willing to risk their public image and the public image of their party, but if you feel that everything belongs to you. Surely, in all this story around Minister Pivec is the most obvious, the biggest corruption and also the most unacceptable story about the SRIPT affair. The affair in which Minister Pivec is to receive 35,000 euros for nothing. That's three years of minimum wage. The minister sees it all as tampering, as discrediting, and as a personal assault. It is if you think something belongs to you. In short, everything has to be governed by laws, but not by elites. This government is in some ways a poor cartoon of Mary Antoinette. Today's debate on the discharge of the Minister must therefore, in fact, be a debate on corruption and the non-existent integrity of the entire government. Prime Minister Janša made it very clear between the lines of the proposal for a discharge that he did not have problems with the Minister's action. He's dismissing the Minister for Desus, not for the Minister's corruption. Of course, how would you have a problem with it if it was his government's operating mode? Minister Pivec is not the first one to be involved in such affairs. With this government, we witness every week a new and new scandal of this type, beginning with the Minister of Economy, corruption deals in the purchase of protective equipment at the height of the first wave of the epidemic, house investigation, indictments. What's going on? Nothing. The Minister has full confidence and support for both the President of the Government and the entire coalition. The second extreme is Minister Hoys. By its day-to-day activities, it practically exceeds its powers, exerts pressure on law enforcement authorities, is disciplining independent personnel in the police, issuing procedures review instructions and the like. It's a minister who publicly gave up because he couldn't have more influence on the work of the police than he wanted. But this resignation was not accepted by the President of the Government, and he did not take into account what is now in violation of both the Constitution and the laws. How would the Prime Minister have a problem with Alexandra Pivec if it was his reflection? What is embodied by all the pilgrims, the restorative, the madmen, the Kanglers, and the uncondemned populace is the spiritual and mental state of this government. In fact, this government is facing us and we recognize the true dimensions of the meaning of the word elite. We are therefore taking today's debate in Levica as a debate on the work of the entire government. The call currently in power can only provide the darkest scenarios for the future of Slovenia. After six months, it is even more clear what we have already pointed out in Levica when we confirmed the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government. John Janša does everything in his power to legally or illegally subordinate himself to all social sub-systems, starting with law enforcement, justice, supervisory institutions and the media. He wants to subjugate and manage the entire state property. And while he's doing it in the background, he's doing everything he can to get the public as excited and excited as possible with his rhetoric, when, with the greatest degree of cynicism, he attacks everything in order, from journalists, culturers, to civil society, in short, everyone who thinks differently from him. That is why we are taking the debate today, and we need to take it as a debate on Janshism, a political doctrine that replaces democracy with the rule of one party, which changes meritocracy with the principle that it is ours and that the public interest changes with the filling of its own pockets. In Levica, of course, we will vote in favour of the discharge of Minister Pivec and continue to do everything possible to resolve and eliminate the Janshism.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – has the floor. The position will be presented by Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u21	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Madam Minister, Dr. Aleksandra Pivec, distinguished colleague and colleague! Members of New Slovenia, I confess, we regret that today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is also a proposal for the discharge of Dr. Aleksandra Pivec, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. New Slovenia never hurts to interfere and does not interfere with the internal affairs of any of the political parties. Of course, we are also very sensitive if someone from outside, who is not even our electorate, preaches how we should regulate our internal affairs. The new Slovenia respects the decision of the authorities of Desus, our coalition partners, and consequently the proposal of the President of the Government, which we are considering. Members of New Slovenia have no important comments or criticism about the work performed by Dr. Aleksandra Pivec as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. When we first saw her in a high political position, we were in opposition, we said, nice, welcome, another woman in high Slovenian politics. Dr. Aleksandra Pivec is proud to say that she's Pretzel. This does not mean that she viewed or looked only at the birth of Prlecia, but at the whole of Slovenia. Since it has taken root in the countryside, we hope, as it had just announced before, that the countryside will remain in its heart and will focus all its potentials on rural development, especially those on the periphery, so we expect. The rural area on the periphery has been too loud in the last few years, and this is also seen as regards the development situation of the Slovenian periphery and the Slovenian countryside. Dear Madam Minister, I sincerely thank you for your work so far for your work for the Slovenian farmer and the farmer's household on behalf of New Slovenia! In further efforts for the Slovenian farmer and the Slovenian countryside, however, I sincerely wish you much success and personal satisfaction.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. The position will be presented by Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u23	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members, distinguished Dr. Alexander Pivec! It is not often that the President of the Government proposes the discharge of his minister or minister. To date, the National Assembly of Ministers has resolved only six cases – four times on the proposal of the President of the Government and twice on the basis of interpretation. However, in the history of Slovenia, it has never happened that the Prime Minister of the Government would propose the discharge of the Minister at the request of a coalition party that brought the Minister to the government. This is difficult to understand and, with little understanding of politics, we could save today's meeting. This is clearly a complete misunderstanding of the functioning of our political system. Dr. Aleksandra Pivec became Minister for this reason and only because she was proposed by one of the parties who make up the government coalition, and the trust of this party was lost by the Minister. These are the facts. It is also true that under the coalition contract signed by Desus with the SDS and the other two parties, the quota of the Ministry of Agriculture belongs to Desus. This is probably not so difficult to understand, so we do not find it meaningful to call this meeting together and insisting on a position to an agonizing end. But since we are already here, I, on behalf of the SAB, which has also signed under the interpolation, will also state the reasons why we signed the interpolation and where we see the reasons for the discharge of the Minister. According to the KPK, the Minister has proven to have violated legislation on integrity and prevention of corruption. Remember, when she was a secretary of state at the Government Office for Slovenians in place and around the world and during her ministry in the agricultural sector, according to the KPK, she violated the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption three times. This was done by the fact that the KPK did not report research work in the ZRS Bistra, Ptuj and the deposit of the political function was also involved in this project. The Commission therefore issued a warning. Furthermore, the Minister received EUR 35,000 gross in 2018 to participate in the specific project SRIPT. According to the findings, not the media, not the political opponents, but the Ministry of the Economy, for which it received a lot of money, has not fully done so. Supposedly, the Minister, as State Secretary at the government office, was helping the Tourist Guest House to participate in a minority project on both sides of the Slovenian-Italian border. Although she denied that the payments would come from this title, she certainly did. This summer, the minister, as we all know, visited the company of her family members, where she made a promotional video and some photos, and promoted the company. However, she did not pay any bills for this partly private visit, nor did she want to explain to the public the financial benefits of the visit. It was not until a month after the outbreak of the affair that it settled the cost of staying originally paid by that company. Further, at the beginning of June this year, the Minister regulated the projects of the fishing museum in Izola, which was originally of an official nature, and the Minister extended her private nature in a short rest. After the affair was revealed, she claimed it was a work visit. It is clear from the revealed accounts for accommodations at the Marina Hotel in Izola that it was a hotel service for the minister and their two sons. The account was, and in this is the biggest problem, several times later fixed, the tourist fees disappeared from it, and in the end all the guest names, and the account settled as the Municipality of Izola. The Minister, however, became more involved in the statement and caught up in her own trap when she could never adequately explain the intertwining of the public and private at her visits to Crassus and Isola. The Minister should be aware that private costs cannot be settled either by the company or by the municipality, but in particular, we should be aware that, on a proposal from Desus, she has become Minister both in the government of Marjana Sarca and later in the government of Janez Janša. And when the Members of Desus, and then the party, turned their backs on her, they would have given up if they had followed those who had a political feeling. It's not. For more than three months now, we have been monitoring the saga about the minister, whom we all want bad, and she is not guilty of anything and she is talking about liquidation and discredit. I'm sure we don't want anything bad for you in the SAB. Of course, the President of the Government could have stopped this agony a long time ago, but he didn't, because it suits him very much. It is fitting for everyone to deal with Minister Pivec and the client Desus, and he is quietly transforming our country into another republic behind us. Intervention in the media, interference in the judiciary, police clearance, personnel exchange, merger of supervisory institutions with the aim of their decommissioning and complete subordination and could also be listed. And that's why the saga about the secretary lasts so long that the focus is elsewhere because it suits someone so well. But today's the end of the story. Finally, you could say. And really rarely does it happen that we agree with Janez Janša’s suggestions at the Alenka Bratusek Party. Today, therefore, the discharge of the agricultural minister in the SAB Group will be unanimously supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will be presented as the last position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u25	Vice President, thank you for your word. I welcome everyone in the hall, which also means the former Minister Mrs. Pivčeva! Look, on Desus' website, in Desus's Emissary group, we talked for three months about a subject that we didn't have a heart at all. Everything that has happened has not been in favour of either the party or the Group of Members, but of the other output, in fact, the Members and we have not had a party. The party's minister, or the party's president, has resigned, and in any event we have said that we do not want her as the Minister of Agriculture. Above all, we are aware that today is the conclusion, and I hope that it will be as we have proposed to the President of the Government. The fact that some people are shooting at our knees, which have already been shot several times, and they are smashing through our party and the sending group, has been shown in practice to take care of their own problems in some way and to let others solve their own problems within the party or the sending group. I have to admit, we haven't been able to solve this matter inside the party, but it's gone public. We will be moving away from this hall today, we do not want to listen to these matters anymore, because in these three months we have actually told everything. We wish the former presidents of the party and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food all good for the rest of our lives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u26	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the Group and are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for the discharge of the Minister. First of all, the Minister wanted to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u27	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to express my position on the views of the groups of Members. In the past period, there have been numerous observations at the expense of my political integrity and alleged corruption. At the same time, it is very interesting that most of the evidence from the debate was heard by the List of Marjan Šarc, former President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. A number of eyewitnesses flew into my past actions, which were subject to media discredits at the time of his leadership of the government. Since then, nothing new has happened in the recorded stories, but today, despite the unchangeable facts he knew back then, the same acts are evident to me. At that time, President Marjan Šarec did not respond to all the above-mentioned findings or stressed the fact that there is not enough evidence to give me any insight. Even though there is no new evidence today, or at least I am not aware of it and only he knows it, the same acts are evident to me today. Let him who can understand. In addition, I should add that former Prime Minister Marjan Sarec has ruled that I am doing well in the agricultural ministry and that there is no reason for him to relieve me of this position because of my expectations, but today he demands exactly that. I would like to say the following about the perceptions of the issue of my integrity and corruption. I have not, and I do not deny that the hosts on my business visits have ever visited me. In the fact that the President of the PSC, at the time of the opening of the investigation in my cases, pointed out that a corrupt act could already be a coffee market, however, there is a big question. Perhaps many of you here and many others do not feel responsible that you have already found yourself on the verge of corruption and the question of your integrity? And here we could follow the principle that the first stone be cast by the one who is without sin. Today and in the past months, many of you have already thrown stones at me, and now let the one who feels that he is without sin rise up and speak it publicly and loudly. Do you think that this country and the KPK are primarily involved in corruption with coffee, sandwiches, lunches and nocturnals and, on the other hand, totally ignores systemic corruption, which goes to tens of millions of people and billions at the country level? I don't know if I've just missed the last month or if there's actually been no response from this same commission to the write-off of millions of debts and the warning and problem of systemic corruption related to state property? If these cases were opened, they certainly weren't as extensive a press release as the investigation of my case. You're reading me wearing a sponsor's T-shirt with the name of the farm company. I was really wearing it. I wore it back then, and I wore it a lot more times. I wore the shirts of many agricultural, forestry and other companies, which are members of the department I run. I wore the shirts of many farmers, societies and associations of farmers' wives, organic farmers. And I did not wear them because of corruption or the opportunity to give them privileges, I wore them with pride and respect and a great deal of gratitude to all those in our country who are working hard to produce healthy local food and processed our rural space. And now it is time for them to be competent, whether for this reason I have carried out controversial actions on the issue of integrity and corruption. It is difficult to understand that in recent months a lot of efforts have also been made to resolve or interpellate me in the party of the Social Democrats. This is a party whose minister and at the same time the party's president has been led by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food for seven years in three governments. I hope to say that there are several significant differences between former Minister of the Jews and me, which is also reflected in the results of the work. If I have already highlighted some of our achievements in the opening address, I will continue to point out other types of achievements to my colleague, such as: the last, for the media, the marginal subject matter, the lost Teran case, where the argument was that the blame for losing the lawsuit was, in particular, to seek the political decision of the court to which the Croatian policy was intended to affect, of course, the question arises whether the Slovenian policy or the lack of political influence and lobbying was extremely weak and therefore failed, whether the arguments in the complaint were very poor. I don't know, and I can't imagine the media story and the attacks in the event that this lawsuit is filed and lost during my management of the department. I guess that would be the reason for the interpolation. Thus, the story, which represents considerable damage to Slovenia's wine sector and the competitiveness of our terrace growers, has immediately subsided, and the solution to the situation is now being sought by our team. Furthermore, solutions are now being sought to avoid the repayment of approximately EUR 5 million by Slovenia for the allocation of payment entitlements, which were unduly paid between 2016 and 2018 due to the lack of or no definition of an active farmer in the Agriculture Act. In the event of a failed merger, Slovenia will have to repay these funds to the European Commission or even have to request them from farmers. We have also now introduced the definition of an active farmer as part of the amendments to the Agriculture Act and corrected the past error. Nor does it need to be a great forest expert to know that, with the support of certain individuals from Desus, the SD has successfully installed its personnel to the key positions in forestry and thus privatised the entire area. Nor is it negligible that at that time no attention was paid to systemic corruption, which had been perceived and placed on it by many individuals at all times. The evaluation study of Slovenian agricultural policy in the period 2015-2020 also shows the worrying results of the targeted focus on the use of funds and poor planning of agricultural policy measures from the past period and very clearly highlights all areas in which Slovenia has taken the wrong steps and thus has led to an unappreciable situation which, with significant changes in the future agricultural development strategy, we need to correct. Therefore, major changes will be necessary, which will have to take place in an extremely short time if we want Slovenian agriculture not to experience a complete collapse. However, the changes will unfortunately be most painful and sensitive to farmers who did not have a major impact on policy-making. I am sorry that Member Matjaž Han, who has been extremely involved in activities on the ground for my removal from political space and transported the whole of Slovenia, did not take advantage of opportunities and visits to mountain and forestry farms, farms operating in a restricted area and other problems in rural areas in order to be able to present the results to the farmers themselves during the management of the resort on their part. I probably wouldn't be thrilled to compare those results with the results of our two-year period. At the Allen Bratusek Party, you're joining the understanding of corruption in my case. In doing so, it is extremely interesting that in this context it is never addressed a bank hole that was present at the time of the government's leadership by the party's president. A number of cases that occurred in the DUTB were also not treated at all, even less epilogues. An attempt at innovative energy staffing would also be worth such treatment, but no, even for a client of the SAB, is a key example of dealing with corruption through the participation of the Minister in a field visit. The statements made by the member of the party, of course, are not a surprise. However, I must admit that on the ground, in contact with the countryside, I have never seen anyone ever talk about any proposals made by the Levica party concerning agriculture, fisheries, forestry and nutrition. On several occasions, however, I was able to hear comments that the perception of the understanding of agriculture from a comfortable chair of the city's apartment is completely confused by the reality on the ground of rural areas, both in the field of food processing and the conditions for it and in the area of seeking a balance between agriculture, nature and animal protection. The primary role of agriculture is still to ensure food security and to seek compromises between nature and animal protection. In the Left Party, however, the problem of shooting a wolf is understood as a crime, and slaughtering a herd of sheep is a natural process for them, which a farmer must face. Desus presented today a lesson on corruption, integrity and political correctness. Members of the party have already shown their understanding of democratic principles, respect for legal standards and the dignity of an individual based on the principle To achieve the objective, all funds are allowed to be used. I can be happy that we are living in 2020, because if we were in the Middle Ages, I would probably be waiting for a bunch of people. However, in all these competences, which they have demonstrated and used, there are some shortcomings, such as the lack of knowledge of spatial legislation and its implementation into practice. Not exactly commendable competence is also a great deal of obedience and following instructions or the interests of other parties. My obedience is of a different kind, I have always listened to and listened to the needs of people on the ground and tried to introduce them into my proposals, strategies and decisions, which have created the policy of the agricultural sector. Therefore, allow me to present some of the most important results of our two-year work in addition to the introductions already mentioned. On the basis of a thorough analysis of the state of affairs, we prepared a key strategic document of the Resolution with guidelines for the further development of agriculture in Slovenia after 2021. Together with the other resources, we have identified key strategic projects that will contribute to the long-term development of the agriculture, food and forestry sector when preparing the basis for drawing up the resources from the Development and Recovery Fund. We have prepared 20 key projects worth a total of just under €400 million. The Ministry is carrying out intensive preparation of the strategic plan for the common agricultural policy 2021-2027. We have prepared a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Agriculture Act, which includes three important amendments: debarcation and simplification of administrative procedures in agriculture, the definition of farmers and the agricultural economy, the definition of illegal practices in the food supply chain and the provision of sanctions for them. Effective agricultural policy measures have achieved the highest factor income in agriculture so far during the two years of our mandate. Self-sustainment has risen in two highly deficient areas, pigs and vegetables, which have grown to the highest level in 2019. A historic agreement has also been reached for the further strategic development of the piggyback to raise self-sustainment. We targeted organic agriculture, increased the percentage of agricultural holdings included in the organic farming control system by 5% and the area of organic land by 3.6%. The Agricultural Lands Act also includes the establishment of permanently protected agricultural land and thus the protection of the natural resource essential to food production. We raised the co-financing rate for primary agricultural production and fisheries insurance to 50% for plant production and 30% for animal protection against diseases. The basis for the establishment of a mutual fund to reduce the risks of catastrophic events in agriculture is also being prepared. During the covid epidemic, we took a number of measures to help the agricultural sectors. In the area of forestry and hunting, by appointing a new negotiating group at European level, we have managed to raise professional arguments by raising the annual cut and the already defined 3.5 million cubic metres to 6.2 million cubic metres. With this we have saved Slovenian forestry and wood industry and Slovenian farmer from a break that could have been caused by such a drastic reduction in the volume of the cut. After the windshield in October 2018 we carried out the majority part of the forest rehabilitation and with the amendment of the rural development programme we also enabled the co-financing of rehabilitation for private forests. We have drawn up proposals for regulations that allow for more effective forest rehabilitation by natural means. This ensures faster and more efficient implementation of sanitary cutting and other protective measures. We are establishing a system for assessing the quality of operators in forestry. In support of forest owners, a free online system of mygóddar.si is now available to search for qualified, quality and reliable forest operators. While the management of protected species is within the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Agriculture in this area has mainly recognized the plight of people in rural areas and has therefore been actively involved in solving this problem. With the novel of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, for the first time in Slovenia alone, we have enabled the Zamjski Slovenec to obtain a Slovenian hunting certificate and a hunting card. We re-examine the eligibility of the activities of hunting grounds with special purpose, which are in the management of the Slovenian Institute for Forests. Due to the increasing volume of forests, as well as the burdens and violations associated with them, at the Ministry, we recognized the plight of forest owners and launched activities to establish mountain forest control with forest monitors. We have started by establishing conditions for the development of forest tourism, which will be in co-existence with visitors and forest owners and will allow additional resources for the conservation and development of Slovenian farms, including the establishment of legal cycling, riding routes and other infrastructures in the forests. In the framework of NextGen we propose digitisation of forestry, which will allow tracking from tree to product and thus significantly reduce illegal logging and illegal forest variety markets and unjustifiably enrich an individual. In 2019 we established a Directorate for Food and Fisheries. We pay great attention to eliminating unfair business practices in the food supply chain, and we have provided two supervisors to review and act on cases of unfair business practices. The pigmeat sector signed an agreement at the Agra 2019 Fair after lengthy negotiations at our initiative and through mediation with the aim of revitalising the pigmeat sector and strengthening the entire pigmeat supply chain and launching the Selected Quality of Slovenia scheme. We have been successful in drawing funds from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. Since all milestones have been reached, we have therefore received additional funding from the Performance Reserve. In autumn 2019 we first performed a generic promotion of quality schemes with an emphasis on eco and selected quality. We also launched a generic promotion of the ecological scheme for the first time in the spring. We have already prepared a draft operational programme for the implementation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. For the first time in the history of Slovenia, there is also a strategy for less loss and waste. Your Honor! I have just presented to you some of the most important activities and results of our two-year work at the Ministry. Any objective listener may find that in two years a lot of work has been done, mainly to farmers, foresters, fishermen, beekeepers, hunters, entrepreneurs and stewards of a regulated rural area, in order to help carry out their work and the efforts they are making to ensure food security and a regulated rural area. The objective listener would also point out that most of the political public to the sector in the past had been machete and under-interested and thereby evaluated the reputation of agriculture and agriculture. On the basis of the responses from the field, I know that my work and the work of my team are appreciated by those to whom our attention has been directed. Dear Members and Members! I know that many of you are also objective and know how to appreciate the results of our work, and I know that today you are faced with a difficult decision when you will have to make a different decision because of political calculations than your conscience dictates. Since I do not want to put you in a position to look at good work and decide otherwise because of the political agreement, I have decided to make my irrevocable withdrawal statement from the post of Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I am resigning from this city because I do not want to be judged by a vote by a policy that does not accept individuals who strive to work for the good of people and not for political elites or individuals. At the same time, I apologize to all farmers, fishermen and foresters for leaving them and the department for which I have worked with respect, commitment and responsibility. At the same time, I am writing a request to all future policy makers and policy makers that, on the way we have started and paved the way for such an important resource, you will restore to this farmer, forester and fisherman the reputation, validity and deserved place that belongs to him in the political space and society. I sincerely thank the President of the Government and the ministerial team for all the support and creative cooperation in these difficult moments, not only Slovenia, but the world. This has been my work in the third government and I can say peacefully that the work of this government has been the most successful and effective, as our results prove. Apparently, in the Desus Group, my resignation from the party's presidency was not sufficient, so they were looking for further options for my removal from the political space with today's proposal for a solution. Although we have also successfully met the coalition commitments arising from the client's programme and in less than half a year, among other things, we have achieved the establishment of the Demography Office and the provision of funds from the budget for its operation, after several years of efforts by the party, we have also brought the Demographic Fund Act to an end, ensuring extraordinary reconciliation of pensions by 2%, without taking account of economic growth, and this has not been a good enough result to appreciate. And despite my resignation as party president and now as minister, the party continues to deal with the impeding of my candidacy for president at the future party congress, despite the fact that there is still support for the field and despite the fact that the actions so far have led to the fact that many committees and individuals have already prepared their withdrawal statements from the party, leading to the complete collapse of the party. Now we're looking for options for my expulsion from Desus. This effort is to save you, my fellow Members, and I myself give you my exit statement from Desus today. I have entered politics with sincere and honest intentions to do good for all people who, because of their present and past work, deserve respect and a decent life, for people who have the courage and care for the future of our country of Slovenia. Therefore, I promise that, as of today, my political path will not be closed, but will open a new door through which I am on a new path, where good and fair can be done for the benefit of people and countries, and this will provide an alternative to policies that are important to its own interests, the protection of certain elites and mutual accounting. Dear Slovenes and Slovenians, the future is always on the side of the strong and brave. So the future is on our side. That is why we are courageous and determined to walk in it!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Since, in accordance with Rule 261 of the Rules of Procedure, the Minister is required to notify in writing first of her resignation from the President of the Government, and then to notify the President of the Government in writing of the resignation of the Minister of the National Assembly, I note that we do not have a written notice by this time, so that we continue the meeting and the debate between Members and Members. Mr Jani Möderndorfer gets the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I must say, I'm a little surprised, given that we've only been dealing with one question in the last week, not whether you're going to be a minister or not, but when and how you're actually going to step down. And I will make this my own debate. Since you mentioned in your closing statement that it was your removal and your liquidation, I must say that I am a little disappointed. Personally, I have to say that I've been in direct contact with you twice. Why am I telling this story? Because I would also like to assess what you are actually explaining. Once we talked about this law, how to actually deal with the issue of animals, about sensitive animals, if you remember, and the second time I was asking you a question about the question of how equality in the performance of wine in Slovenia is generally said. But what's more important to me is that I was asked for the media for the first time what I thought about the situation. You know, and I believe you've been monitoring this, and I've made it clear that I'm going to say something again. Each of the politicians, Members, ministers or officials who perform a public function can always be in conflict of interest or in a situation where they are actually required to put bills on the table. And I believe that this border is sometimes very thin and I have also said appropriately that I believe that the next day the Minister will put all the bills on the table and close this story as well. I'm afraid that didn't happen. Fourteen days later, I was asked again, because this saga literally continued from day to day, and these were the central reports, virtually all the reports started with this event, the following sentence said, of course, given that this issue has not been clarified and that there is a great deal of doubt in the air and is complicated from day to day by the situation, I believe that your journey is, in fact, already politically finished and that you are, in fact, politically dead. Which is why today I am actually wondering whether you are really the person for whom it was intended, as you say, to wind up, whether you are actually collateral damage to this government. Because it was actually fitting for someone to drag this saga for four months and something else. For four months we had to listen and deal essentially with your departure, instead of today, in particular today, instead of actually dealing with the public health system, which is a more important question for me right now, how it will develop and take place in the Slovenian space. It would be more important to ask ourselves what happened to this situation, that we have confirmed once again in Europe and in the world that we have not actually matured democratically. This is essentially what we should be more concerned about than whether you are leaving today or not. Ministers are only those soldiers of every time the Prime Minister of the Government, who come and go and perform and, finally, for this central speaker in Parliament, swear to work for the good of the Republic of Slovenia. So, of course, for me, all the arrows are actually directed at the President of the Government. Why didn't he react right away? We've already had a similar situation, if you remember. After all, John Janša had to leave in a similar way with the Depal village affair. Of course, it was not so important to him at the time, but I thought and was convinced that, at least in all these years, it was such an old story from many years ago that he learned that he had to act immediately, as John Drnovšek did. That's not what happened. In fact, he was quiet and he waited and waited for the story to develop. Many can today, when the subject is being opened up, why you were not actually proposed by the President of the Sharca Government already in the then government for a solution when the first affair actually occurred. You know very well, and as we have read in the public media, I can tell you that at that time you even offered to resign to the Prime Minister if you have to leave, of course. However, given that it has been clear in the publications that he has actually received assurances from Minister Restovalska that you are actually a collateral victim and that there will be a report, which, by the way, no one has seen before today, at least the National Assembly has not, what has actually been true and what has not been, is of course a serious problem that there are certain burdens in the air that some people have actually seen each time, despite the fact that you intend to do something good in the field in which you were Minister, the question is whether you could even perform this function. Finally, what is more important to me is how much time and parliamentary practice we will also create for future ministers. Personally, I have to say that I'm actually a little disappointed, especially because, as I said, we're not politically mature. Some drop out when jumping into a pool full of foam the next day, some because they drank children or two too much, while others, in fact, we are looking for reasons for, of course, staying in a political space in such a way or otherwise, for any price, convinced that this is the only way. Today, however, we have received a kind of practice that, in fact, we are moving a party's political life to Parliament, in the sense that we now have to deal with the problems of one political party. Today, in your so-called farewell speech, you mentioned and mentioned that you would step out of the political party. Who cares about this House from other political parties? No one. No one at all. If this is your intention to do so, do so as everyone else does — write a letter or tell them in person, but say it in their circle. And that is what I am saying, of course, that we have not matured when we are talking about a political democracy or culture that we should essentially internalise without any particular procedure. It is not the case, you know, that the ethical code did not support the SDS in Parliament either, because they knew that sooner or later they could hack into the problem that the ethical code cited. This is, of course, this constant problem that we have whenever we talk about things that seem insignificant. You know, let's say the question that I get today by email from individuals, citizens, and they say, "Is 400 euros the sum that the minister has to give up?" That is why I am asking the public today, rhetorically of course, because I do not expect any answer, but it is right for everyone to say to himself: "Is it 1 euro, is it 400 euro, is it a thousand euro limit, is it 20,000 euro, or is it only a million euro?" Because for some of the millions of euros there is no limit if you understand what I'm saying. And it's not a question of prosciutto cuts, as you cynically mentioned in your address. It is simply a matter of a relationship, whether you can still perform the minister's work of quality with all the honest intentions you have and express them in your address. I can trust you. But I don't think I could stand the pressure every time anything gets mixed up, I'd get my ham slice back right away. This is a problem that in some developed democracies simply does not reflect on whether the four cuts are still borderline when they give up or not. I'm not going to discuss the details, because you've actually already stepped down and actually made an incision over this issue. The question is, of course, whether we will experience mail and notice, because this Parliament has also experienced in this mandate that it has not received a notice of resignation, and we are in some sort of complication. You will resign, perhaps the Prime Minister of the Government will not even send the mail back to Parliament that you have resigned, and we will have a serious problem because you will, in fact, still be like Hojs the Minister, and even though you have resigned here publicly. This is the problem of this government and above all the problem of the Prime Minister, who is the first and only one responsible for this government. And we are experiencing this disgrace in this term. I know everyone on that side will be angry at me because they will talk about the welfare of the country and how much good they've done, the crown and fight for I don't know what rights, but the problem is in detail, you know. And remember, people have never given up on 20 million euros, but always on account of the little things that you are explaining today that this is a irrelevant issue. And yet, in the end, you have concluded that it is a de facto shameful act, that the opposition is still voting for your resolution. Thank God you are, and you still have a bit of pride in making this move yourself. Or she'll keep it, she'll keep it, and I don't know. I have to wait. Since everything is changing with this President of the Government, perhaps he will now again announce that something has changed or a new conclusion. I could personally say thank you, not for your work, because it was your duty, because you were also paid for it, as we all are, to perform this function that we perform. But thanks in particular for one other thing, that you drew that line that you should have drawn four months ago, and if you honestly thought about the welfare of the Republic of Slovenia, to make it easier for this government, who today is patheticly thanking you for your work and it is embarrassing to tell them more than just to respect the message of the President of the Government. In fact, you are the collateral sacrifice of your president, which you still honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Violeta Tomić, prepared by Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u31	Thank you, Vice President. I hoped that this part would be saved, given that the Minister had stepped down, and I didn't intend to sign up for the debate either. However, what really bothered me was that Minister Pivcheva internalized this principle, which is usually used by the SDS – as I can see, has also continued to whisperers – and attacks everything on average. The attack is the best defense. See, that's what's bothering me. Because you're resigning now, but the interpellation was not necessary. We all blamed you, all right. I can tell you about the Left, and you're saying that we're jumping into the luft because of one shot wolf, but we don't see a herd of slaughtered sheep, it won't hold, Minister. I was in the previous term, when you were not yet at the Ministry of Agriculture, Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, we have done a great deal. And I participated in the Slovenian National Forest Act, and we talked a lot about subscribers. You're acting like the world started with you, and you're really endlessly arrogant. And that's what I personally resent. For you know that one sees no fault at all, he is not self-critical, he confesses nothing, and then he entangles how all the others are nothing, and this is a little difficult to swallow. And I was critical of Mr. Jew, but is Mr. Ficko, Director of the Slovenian National Forest, a member of the SD or Desus, I ask you. Slovenian state forests have received a Bianca menu for 20 million euros, these are Slovenian state forests, where Mr Ficko under a password that I come to heaven once built villas and rented commercial cars. Personally, while criticizing Levica, I expected the Court of Auditors and the KPK to take him under observation. To my question, why didn't you meet the marriage obligation for wood processing establishments that were within the SIDG Act, because the 20 million-dollar money exchange did not come to Ficko to drive in nice cars, you told me that research has shown that wood processing is not worth it. Are we the only country in this world worth more to export and import semi-finished products or products? I don't know who's doing this independent research for you. In short, Mrs. Pivec, you, in fact, as my predecessors have already said, are a symptom of this government. For after all the breakouts, where corruption had been revealed, he remained, after Hojs, who had resigned himself, and remained, according to Mr. Visiank, who, as the Minister of the Environment, was working more accidentally for the ecologically controversial projects and accidentally bought Petrol's shares growing overnight, you are here, because man would not blame you, I mean, those pairs of ham slices as you say, and say to throw the stone the first one who is without sin. It's not about that, it's about your way of hiding, how you faked the facts, and it's not right. They feel sorry for me personally. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Again with the instructions from SDS. I personally feel sorry for your children who have been collateral damage to your mistakes, but the child is not taking it with him, especially not on promotional videos. And you know, the promotion video isn't free, we've already recorded a lot of things, and we know that's not what agencies do, and it's not wearing a T-shirt on one visit. Basically, you know, the second time you ran for Minister in this same term, the first time you were in the Sharchev government, we've pointed out that somehow the Ministry under your leadership was doing nothing, and it was very slow. We have indeed not dealt with any law, but we have witnessed some strange human resources moves and attempts to break up the Food Safety Inspectorate, Veterinary and Plant Protection. That, you know, that's when we remembered and saw that it just didn't work out. Now this arrogance to the media and its members, I don't know what it's for. Because if you get the mistrust of Desus and the Members, then I don't know how you can insist that they are guilty in Desus. I think that someone as president of one party must primarily protect the interests of their party and not their interests against it. I'm not going to go into this at all, into your plans and that because it's really not my job. I remember hearing when you brought us the report on the state of agriculture, after two years, almost, of our ministry, we got the bills, we got the printed edition and you said the same thing. And when I procedurally warned you to tell us the same thing three times, I think, but we're not that stupid again, and you're taking up valuable time for questions from Members and Members, where you could be asked something and we were somehow confirmed in a credible way, I haven't been given a procedural and opportunity since then, and it was only a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but one thing is possible. The Ministry's leadership isn't just pear action. It is nice to go around visiting winemakers, visiting prosthetics and anyone, but the work of the minister is mainly elsewhere. You say you worked for small people. Do you even know how little people live? In the SRIPT project you got 35,000 euros, we've already talked about it, and you said it was only 35,000. And I reminded you that one self-employed person in culture can earn 19 thousand a year and a few more euros a year if he is to get the right to pay contributions. You got 35,000 euros next to your salary, okay, but you didn't inform your superior, then Minister Zmavc, nor did you, as we later found out what you did for it. And then we could have imagined and said, and that's really not the best thing. What is most interesting is your alleged friend Klaudia Perger, the former SMC Member who came with promises of ethics and morality to this National Assembly, who was the Minister of Education at the record time when it was found that she had falsified her master's degree. And she ran for Minister of Education. I mean, great company, really. And this same lady received an even better job at the Tourist Guest House, where she apparently hired you for this project, or the Tourist Restaurant Chamber, allegedly hired a loan to pay you a fee. In short, this is where you've been hiding the facts in the public interest. It's a lot of affairs. You violated the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. You are suspected of abuse of official position, for lobbying. You broke the code of ethics. I don't know, you discriminated against other wine growers, because you supported one vineyarder and made him a promo. What about the others? While this same vineyard is a recipient of public funds and subsidies, it is quite high. In short, it's a conflict of interest. I mean, it would be hard for me for you, because if this were happening to me, I'd be sinking into the ground. I'd be sick, really. But it's even more incomprehensible to me that you don't go through so much reflection, that you say, look, here I'm wrong, this is where I really made a mistake. And then you'd say, "You know, you know, and you'd never do it again." But it's perfectly normal for you to do this. Clearly, then, some in this government, especially ministers, think they are first class and are allowed to do so. This is, of course, a repeated pattern of infringement. That's not a slip of yours. Because if it was a slip, we'd be aware of it. I'm not going to mention it because you and I have heard these allegations against you a number of times, so it seems to me that there is no point in exposing these mistakes further. But I'm sorry, I'm really sorry that you have a total lack of self-reflection and any self-criticism to stress that you've done your job well and that everyone who reads anything to you is, you know, guilty all of you, not better than me and with what right you judge me. It's not. Also with regard to the Agricultural Land Fund, which aims to round up agricultural land, it is increasingly building up. See how many important people have cottages where agricultural land is, in good locations, with sea view and so on. That's your responsibility, too. In short, I would like to hear in your mandate at any time on the Committee on Agriculture any constructive initiative on, say, self-care. It's covida time, we were lucky we didn't run out of food in stores. Even at the beginning, when there was panic and people were getting a lot of stuff. We could lose because we are entirely or largely dependent on imports. Then I would expect one such urgent plan, a plan to raise Slovenia's self-sustainment with cereals, vegetables, what we will do. We've heard a lot of words, rumors, but very little concrete action. Minister, I am sorry, indeed, that this has become so complicated with these accounts and with these shots of promovideo and these corruption scandals, but I would really expect one such healthy measure of self-criticism, self-reflexion and awareness that we are responsible to the politicians. There we had one member, a seat that went to pay for a sandwich after the meeting, and he resigned. In short, it is not right that a person in such an important function does not pay attention to his actions but, above all, that he does not know how to apologize when he makes a mistake. We can all do it. We know that wherever we go, people are happy to serve us, and really, as my friend Jani said before, there is a thin line between what they offer you and how you respond. Of course, there's nothing wrong with honoring you, but it's wrong if you're changing accounts and avoiding any kind of evidence. Unfortunately, we have come to an end, and it is not said that you have spoken in your defense, how you will proceed, I have understood so much as that you will lead the ministry forward, what is yet to be done with regard to agriculture. I hope that this government is going through at least some integrity to take it seriously that it's a withdrawal. Now you're the second to back off after Hoys. I hope we're not out of time. I wish you a lot of success in your future life, and the Desus party to somehow consolidate and find the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Madam Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u33	Allow, honourable Member, only the answers to some of your above-mentioned facts. As far as SigG is concerned, if you've listened carefully, I also mentioned the leadership that was given by Desus. I never denied our leadership was there. As far as woodworking centres are concerned, I have answered this question several times before the committee, namely that we have taken priority over the construction of a business facility, which was also the first priority of the strategic plan that they wanted to submit to the Government for admission, firstly we have withdrawn, is the construction of a business building, and have given priority to the four wood processing centres that have already been placed in the strategic plan. If you remember, we've also dealt with them on the committee. However, after the profitability study carried out by the Ministry of Finance, it was reported that only one of the four woodworking centres in the manner in which they were placed in the strategic plan, reach or at least exceed that threshold of acceptable profitability. For this reason, we have returned to SIDG to prepare new plans again, because we are convinced that Slovenia urgently needs wood processing centres. As a result, the re-strategic plan with the revised balance sheets, which were also the basis for the profitability study submitted to the Inter-Resort hearing at this time, and I believe that it will be adopted by the Government in a short time with these corrected content relating to wood-processing centres. As regards the attempted decommissioning of the Food Safety Authority, no attempt at decommissioning has been made. I believe that these facts have been misrepresented to you, but there have been a number of affairs that occurred at the time, if we remember only the beef affairs, the imports from Poland, then the screwdrivers' affairs, by both the employees of the Food Safety Authority and also by the field, reported that the organisational structure is not such that the lack of inspectors does not need to make certain changes that would, of course, give the Food Safety Authority a basis for transparent and in line with the consumer's expectations. We have therefore formed a special working group which has prepared a proposal to reorganise the Food Safety Authority with only a few internal transfers. In any case, it was not an attempt at decommissioning. You're telling us we didn't make the laws. I myself believe that the work of the Minister is not merely the drafting of laws. And at that time, we've made quite a few changes in marriage. Above all, we focused on working to prepare for the drawdown of funds in the new financial perspective. And as you are aware, we have been actively involved in negotiations at European level for two years now, in order to achieve the first objective, as much as possible, of financial resources, with which we will be able to implement all the programmes outlined in the future financial perspective smoothly. And you are probably aware that we have been very successful with these negotiations, because, according to the first projected 15% drop in rural development funds, we have succeeded in negotiating not only in the financial sense, but also with our requirements or proposals to comply with the specifics of the Slovenian agricultural area, to achieve that these funds are not reduced by 15%, but increased by 4.3% and that we have managed to place all those Slovenian specifics in the framework at European level, which will be crucial in order to ensure that we are able to make this contribution to our agricultural structure as effective as possible. After all, as far as promovideo is concerned. There was no show, but only what we saw on that visit was recorded in the form of a video. In other cases, or in many other cases, similar visits were made not only in Vincaras but also in other winemakers, and I do not agree here that I discriminated against anyone, but the images were published. This time they were put in a video and there was no promotional video because also Vinacaras did not use it for its promotion anywhere. As far as the Agricultural Land Fund is concerned, I can say that we have reduced agricultural land fertility by a large percentage and have also prepared an amendment to the law in which we have laid the groundwork for the permanent protection of agricultural land, which means that it will not be possible for at least 10 years to change any destination to agricultural land which is defined as the primary strategic importance for food production. Therefore, it is not clear that, during this mandate, agricultural land areas have been reduced in any way, but on the contrary, agricultural land areas have increased. And we started in the Fund also by buying abandoned or abandoned farms, which we then, of course, hand over and allow rentals or leases of abandoned farms, of course, along with agricultural land. I don't think it's obvious about covid and the possibility of food shortages at the time, because I think we've responded very well to the current situation at the time, and we've also made sure that there's no shortage of food in the food supply system. And when you talk about the fact that we have not prepared any plans to reduce dependence on imports, especially in the deficit areas – at the time, an action plan for raising plant production was prepared and in the two packages of the CAP we have included a large number of incentives for the construction of plants, the use of geothermal energy, which we have also followed in this action plan and which we are also giving a great deal of attention to in order to raise self-care in areas where Slovenia is extremely dependent on imports.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Trček has a procedural proposal first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u35	Yeah, I admit I have a serious problem with this stunt. The President has already stepped down and is also parliamentary. I just want to know, on a procedural basis, how within the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure we will implement its derogation to the end. If we are waiting for this envelope, which must come from the government, I would also advise you, the Vice-President-in-Office, to deliver an envelope to us, the donkeys torn apart, Minister Hojs, after all, to keep it in the National Assembly as a memory of some parliamentary madness that I hope will pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u36	Yes, thank you very much, Dr. Runcho. I have already said at the outset that, in accordance with Rule 261 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government must inform the National Assembly in writing of the resignation of the Minister or Minister. In this written notice, however, he must also indicate who replaces him at that time. The practice we have been given to Mr Hojs has not shown that an irrevocable, publicly stated resignation of the Minister does not necessarily mean that the Minister has resigned. So I'm not waiting for any envelopes at this point, but we're all waiting together for an e-club, according to Udis, to receive a written notice from the Prime Minister that Mrs Aleksandra Pivec has resigned from the post of Minister. In my opinion, it is a statement that the oral statement made by the Minister today is exactly the same as the oral statement made by Mr Hojs just before the time. And then we can all remember that the President of the National Assembly, Mr Igor Zorčič, said that there was nothing he could do until he had informed the President of the Government in writing. So at this point, I cannot simply interrupt this point, stop this meeting, and not allow the Members and Members of the debate that they have declared. [[advertising from the hall]] However, we will take a break once the list of the panellists has been exhausted, because I believe that even if the Minister has the right to debate, Members and Members of Parliament have the right to debate in this house. Now Mr Only Bevk also has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! However, I propose that, in the light of past parliamentary practice, you stop the debate. We had two such cases: in 2010, the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, proposed the discharge of Environment Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac, and when Karl Viktor Erjavec said at some point that he was resigning, the President of Gantar interrupted the meeting of the National Assembly and we went home nicely. Another such case was in office when the government was led by Mira Cerar. He sent a discharge from Minister of Culture Mag to the National Assembly. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar and at some point Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Minister of Culture, resigned from her post and I will now quote from the report of the State Assembly of 26 April 2016: “The Session of the National Assembly”, of course, when she resigned, “they have thus ceased, and the National Assembly will formally become aware of her resignation after Prime Minister Cerar has submitted a written notice of resignation.” [[…]] I think it is completely irrelevant that we are now discussing and making sure, because at the end of what we have gathered to vote, we will not do at all. I suggest you stop this session and finish this story, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your proposal. I'm familiar with all the cases you've just described. This has been a case of parliamentary practice so far, but, as I have already said, the President of the National Assembly, at the irrevocable resignation of Minister Hojs, who gave his resignation in a practically identical manner to the Minister of State today, is said publicly before the microphone and so on, this derogation has not taken place, and after the 261st Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the State Assembly is informed of the resignation of the Minister or Minister when we receive the written notice of the President of the Government. As soon as I receive a written notice on the bench, I will end this item and conclude this meeting. We are now continuing with the meeting and the debate, but only two other panellists have been declared. Before that, Mr Horvat, on a procedural basis, I can tell you in advance that if you have the same procedural proposal, I will respond equally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u39	But thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. My procedural proposal is practically identical, as stated by my colleague Samo, who has some historical memory. Unless it goes otherwise, I think it makes sense that you should put this procedural proposal to the vote to a conclusion. Since the proposal is very logical, the President of the Government proposes that the National Assembly resolve the Minister, she resigns, and now we are waiting for him - what are we waiting for? [[advertising from the hall]] What are we waiting for?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u40	Mr Horvat, we are awaiting a written notification from the President of the Government in accordance with Rule 261 of the Rules of Procedure. You can read this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u41	Madam Vice President, if I may. In view of the previous parliamentary practice, twice, perhaps even more, I propose that you put my proposal to the vote. This proposal, however, concludes the debate at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. I have no problem putting this proposal to the vote, so we can vote on the conclusion of the debate at this point. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, I pressed the wrong button. We'll vote. Here you go. At present, the National Assembly is not concluded, so we will repeat the vote when we meet in the Chamber. We're starting the vote. There were 52 Members and Members present to conclude that the debate would be closed, with 37 Members and Members voting against 15. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 15.]] At this point, I conclude the debate and interrupt this item on the agenda. We'll continue the meeting at 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.09 p.m. and resumed at 18. uri.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-05-SDZ8-Izredna-45.ana.u43	Dear colleagues, we continue with the adjourned 45th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the second item on the agenda – Proposal for a Resolution of Dr. Aleksandre Pivec, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I inform you that you have received a notice from Prime Minister Janez Janša about the resignation of Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandre Pivec. On the basis of the above, the continuation of the consideration of the Prime Minister's proposal for the discharge of the Minister is irrelevant. That's why I'm concluding item 2 of the agenda. We are moving on to a discussion of the Government's Notice of the resignation of Dr Aleksandre Pivec from the post of Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The President of the Government, Janez Ivan Janša, is today 5. Ten. 2020, the National Assembly informed that Dr Aleksandra Pivec had resigned from her duties as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Dr. Aleksandri Pivec has ceased to serve as Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Aleksandra Pivec conducts ongoing business until the appointment of a new minister. I hereby conclude the 45th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly.
