ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Jože Tanko until 6 p.m., Vojko Starović, Franc Kramar, only Bevk until 2 p.m. and Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to four. Agenda item — Proposal for a Decision amending the Framework for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2020-2022 The draft decree was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the motion for a ruling, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Andrea Shirtzle, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present to you the proposal for a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022, allowing us to spend a higher level of government budget in 2020 than envisaged in the Rebalance and Health Treasury. The amendment proposal is accompanied by two documents, an assessment of the proposed amendment by the Fiscal Council and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this assessment. Decision 2020-2022 is amended for the second time this year because of the exceptional circumstances created by the covid-19 epidemic. On 11 May 2020, the National Assembly adopted the first amendment to the decree, allowing for higher expenditure due to the epidemic and its consequences in 2020. As the circumstances related to covida-19 measures have changed since spring – among other things, economic activity has been falling by 7.9% in the first half of 2020 compared to the same period of 2019 and the implementation of measures so far – a change to the 2020 state budget is proposed at the same time as the rebalancing of the national budget. With the proposed amendments to the Sector Budgets Decision, the country 2020-2022 will increase the ceiling of the expenditure of the state sector from €23 000 630 million to €24 000 650 million for 2020 and the target balance from €8.1 to 8.6% of the gross social product. After the cash flow, the ceiling for government budget expenditure will increase from 12 000 525 to 13 000 395 million euros and the target balance will increase from minus 8.1 to 9.3% of gross social product. The ceiling for health expenditure will increase from 3 000 320 to 3 000 370 million euros. We can agree that 2020 is exceptional, and this is also reflected in public finances. In such exceptional cases, both national rules and those at European Union level allow for a derogation from the fiscal rules in force. This allows countries to act quickly and to a significant extent through fiscal policy in 2020 to address the economic consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. The implementation of the measures is being monitored and will also be analysed in future budget documents. Thus, I can say that the analysis at the end of August shows that 25% of almost 40,000 business companies with more than one employee benefited from state aid for on-call workers and almost 50% for pension and disability insurance contributions. At the same time, almost 80% of the companies that benefited from waiting for work benefited from the payment of contributions. The fiscal world simulations also show and demonstrate that so far the government of Slovenia has mitigated the decline in economic activity by about 1.5%. In its assessment of the proposed amendments to the Decision, the Fiscal Council therefore considers that the maximum allowable amount of expenditure is appropriate. In addition to national measures, there has recently been an agreement at European Union level on a recovery package to be financed from the European budget, which will have a significant impact on the medium term and consequently seek a new balance. All of those measures, or will have a significant impact on the public finances of the Member States in the coming months or years, which is also the reason why a temporary derogation from fiscal rules and the rules of the medium-term plan are allowed. With all the uncertainties, future economic movements, the continuation of the epidemic, the input data needed for the calculations, I should like to reiterate that it is impossible at this point to establish reliable estimates of the medium-term fiscal targets and ways to achieve them. As it is said, the European Commission also recognises these circumstances and therefore does not assess the structural situation of the country and not the debt rule. Fiscal policy will be geared towards recovery in the coming years. Dear Members, the number of new infected is increasing. Some are already expecting another wave of epidemics. A decisive response is needed to mitigate the consequences and encourage recovery. The proposed amendment makes this possible, so I suggest you support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u4	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At its 44th urgent meeting on 11 September this year, the Finance Committee considered the proposal for a decision amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the State budget for the period 2020 to 2022. In the course of the course of business, the Levica Group tabled two amendments to the proposal for amendments to the decree, namely Articles 1 and 3. In the introductory supplementary explanation to the motion for a decree, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance presented the substantive changes and the reasons for them, as this is already a second amendment to the draft decree within four months. She also presented the Government's written response to the Fiscal Council's assessment. The President of the Fiscal Council presented the Council's written assessment, stressing that the proposal to amend the Decision is only binding on 2020 and therefore the Fiscal Council would expect a strategy and a medium-term perspective, or the Government's objectives, in view of the increase in public debt and budgetary deficit. He also felt that exceptional circumstances were still taking place. He also expressed a demand for greater transparency of spending and further made recommendations to the Government concerning the basis for determining expenditure, the purpose of the use of reserves, the difference in the level of expenditure of the State sector and the changes in the level of expenditure of the State budget and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, as well as the dynamics of the debt of the State budget. The representative of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development said that the decree took into account the Office's summer forecast, which predicted a 7.6% drop in gross domestic product. It listed the activities most affected by the covid-19 epidemic, namely tourism, service activities, transport, processing activities as well as exports and imports. Investment and private consumption have also decreased, as the situation is still quite uncertain. At the same time, it noted that renewed activity is being detected as confidence indicators at the time of the adoption of the large-scale financial package at European Union level are growing or growing. The debate highlighted the fact that the proposal to amend the decree for the period 2020 to 2022 is dealt with quickly and separately from the proposal for a rebalancing, and the fact that this is already another amendment to the decree within four months. A skeptic assessment of the Fiscal Council and the duration of exceptional circumstances were also highlighted as the covid-19 epidemic was lifted in May. Both amendments of the Levica Group to increase funds for the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance were also presented in the discussion. In the course of the debate, the Secretary of State replied to the questions raised and provided further clarifications. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and did not accept the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of the Left to Articles 1 and 3. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft decree together. As no amendments were adopted by the Committee of the National Assembly to the proposal for a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022, it is proposed that the draft decree amending the Decision on the framework for the preparation of the budget of the State sector should be adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, will be presented by Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u6	Honorable President, Minister and Government representatives! The first thing to be pointed out is that the change in the expenditure of the state sector exceeds the overall change in the expenditure of the state budget and the expenditure of the Slovenian Health Insurance Office in the proposal of the framework, namely EUR 100 million. Another problem is that the proposal to amend the Decision for 2020 to 2022 is dealt with quickly and separately from the proposal for a rebalancing. The usual practice was that this was done at the same meeting of the Committee when the two matters were practically discussed, as it was not possible to separate the debate in the budget from the discussion on the budget balance. Otherwise, it is already the second change in the decree within four months, this time spending on the state budget rises to 13.4 billion and spending on health bills to 3.37 billion. The framework is corrected only for 2020, but as the Fiscal Council warns, this change will certainly also affect the situation in 2021. So we don't really know what will happen in the coming years, what fiscal policy will be like in the coming years. In 2020, we will obviously create a large deficit and an extremely high public debt. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, the Fiscal Council reminded you that the Government must clarify the purpose of spending on the reserve item, which is extremely high, i.e. more than a billion to explain the differences in the volume of expenditure of the State sector and the changes in the volume of expenditure of the State budget and the health expenditure of the treasury and to prepare the expected dynamics of the debt of the State budget or of the State sector. In addition to this, John Janša claimed on Tuesday that, I quote: “The government can explain precisely to every euro why these funds will be used.” [[…]] End of quote. And what the Secretary of State said on the Committee on Finance when considering the amendment of the decree, I quote again: “In view of the covid-19 reservations, yes, I agree, it is true that perhaps from the figure itself, the record itself is not quite clear for what purposes it will be done.” End of quote. So it is not quite clear, but Prime Minister Janša can explain up to the last euro. So again, I am irrevocably withdrawing my irrevocable resignation or how to understand it. Let's move on. According to the Ministry of Finance, the direct impact of measures to limit the impact of covid-19 on the expenditure side for the whole of 2020 will be 2.6 billion, but be careful, only a good half of this amount was realized in the first eight months of the year. In these eight months, however, most of the measures in force have also expired with the highest possible public financial impact. Of the remaining 1.2 billion, which is foreseen for covid-19 measures in the last four months, a large majority is a reserve, that is, 953 million. Let us add an additional 80 million for the reserve for all unforeseen purposes for which no funds are provided in the budget or for the purposes for which funds are not shown to be sufficient during the year. All of this within the raise ranges in debt to a staggering 7.28 billion. If we draw the line under Janša's first government, companies were over-indebted. Under the third government of Janša, however, the state will be excessively indebted. And this will be overpaid again by citizens and citizens. Such a framework for the preparation of budgets in the List of Marjan Šarc is certainly not intended to support irrevocable, without envelope, and we are serious about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you. Nice hello to you all! Your Honor! The budget framework decision is part of the budget documents since the fiscal rule was put in place. Its purpose is to take account of the resources available in the preparation of the budget cut. In this way, through the application of the fiscal rule before the budget is drawn up, I will repeat myself, firstly prior to the formulation of the budget and other public financial policies, the ceiling of the eligible expenditure will be set and then a cut will be drawn up through policies, programmes, ministries and other budgetary users. Such an approach shall ensure that, when preparing the budget, the ceiling of the expenditure allowed is not exceeded and the budget remains so sustainable in the medium term. This year's new pandemic is, of course, special. Fiscal rules in such a situation allow for a temporary derogation from the principle of a balanced budget. However, despite the exceptional situation and the budget deficit, caution and transparency should not be forgotten. The fundamental logic behind setting the ceiling for expenditure in the public treasury is that, firstly, I will repeat myself, first limit the ceiling of expenditure and then divide the appropriations. However, the agenda of this meeting also shows that the Government has gone in the opposite direction. First, it radically reshapes the budget in which it calls for a huge deficit, and now, by re-decision, it identifies the sum of all the funds spent. In this way we are going back to the past, not only in the period before the fiscal rule, but in the period before the programme budgets. So we go back to the logic of first borrowing, then dividing the funds, and then we figure out what the deficit is. This may be appropriate for exceptional circumstances, but we must be aware that we have a fiscal rule, and let it get on our nerves, we have a legal reason to maintain long-term sustainable public finances and not spend more than we can afford to pay. As the Minister of Finance made clear in the budget debate, it is not true that the fiscal rule no longer applies, but that some of its provisions do not need to be taken into account temporarily. Therefore, we are justifiably concerned that the budgetary framework decree is regarded as a mere formality, which at the end of a large distribution merely identifies the sum of the funds spent, rather than choosing a different course for exceptional circumstances, and at least by force, holding to the spirit of restrictions that we must take into account in the planning of public finances. The chosen method of adoption is a poor journey of transparency and the long-term sustainability of the budget, so, of course, we cannot give our support to the draft decree in the Group of Social Democrats. By the way, Mr. Minister, we're already in the second wave of the covid epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following is the word of the Parliamentary Group Party of the Modern Centre, mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Minister of Finance and everyone else present, very nice greeting! The amendment to Article 148 of the Constitution has enabled the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act, which contains a fundamental principle of public finance management at the level of the whole sector of the country. The role of the National Assembly is clearly defined here. In accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act, the National Assembly shall, by means of a specific act or decision on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector, set out the key public financial frameworks to be pursued in public financial planning, namely the targeted balance of the State sector as a whole and of the individual public finances and the maximum possible amount of expenditure for the State sector and the individual treasury. The decree for the period 2020 to 2022 sets out the target surplus and the maximum amount of expenditure of the State sector and individual public treasury. The period under consideration foresees an increase in the deficit of the state sector compared to the previous decree of 0.5 % of GDP and an increase in expenditure on the state budget in relation to the previous period of 1.2 % of GDP. By leading fiscal policy in the past, SMC has proven that we are supporters of sustainable and responsible fiscal policies. The government's fiscal policy led by the SMC was consistent with the rules of the Growth and Stability Pact as well as with the fiscal rule. Slovenia therefore created the highest surplus in the country's history in 2018 and amounted to EUR 303 million, or 0.7% of GDP, after the balance of the country was virtually offset in 2017. The country's debt also decreased by 3.9% to 71.1% of GDP. We can say responsibly that the SMC party, based on its past work in this government, supports the management of fiscal policy, which provides stability and race for us in the future. We must be aware that the exceptional circumstances created by the covid-19 epidemic have allowed derogations from fiscal rules to stabilise public finances, preserve human lives and prevent job losses. The government has responded up-to-date and responsive to the needs of people and has thus successfully plagued the growth of the number of infected. With responsible work, it prevented job losses and thus ensured further revenue for health, education and social welfare. In accordance with the above, the following should be added. Consistency of the public financial policy with fiscal rules on the basis of the draft Stability Programme 2020 and the Proposal for a Decision amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022 has been received by the Fiscal Council in its assessment of compliance with the fiscal rules by the Proposal for a Decision amending the Framework Decision. According to the assessment of the Fiscal Council of 17. 3. 2020 represents exceptional circumstances where, in accordance with Article 12 of the Fiscal Rule Act, a temporary derogation from the medium-term balance of public finances is possible. In such situations, large-scale and multi-stage fiscal policy action is both appropriate and necessary, but must not jeopardise the medium-term sustainability of public finances. On the basis of the explanation given, we are in the position that the decision in question provides us with stable and development-oriented finances. That is why we will support the proposal for a decree in the SMC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. The budget documents not only reflect the missed political priorities of the Janša government but also reflect the authoritarian and conspirative style of its rule. On the one hand, the budget does not provide sufficient resources for public health, cuts resources for culture and poor science and fuels development. On the other hand, both the balance of the budget and the decree provide for extremely high expenditure for purposes which are not explained to the public or to the attentive reader of the budget. The state budget balance is expected to show a deficit of 9.3% this year and measures to limit the impact of the epidemic are expected to cost €2.6 billion or slightly less than 6% of GDP. Their realization in the first eight months is only a good half of that amount, so it is not clear how and for what purposes the Government is expected to spend approximately EUR 1.3 billion in the remaining four months to, I guess, limit the epidemic. Cuts in already-fed cultural and scientific research activities are extremely harmful. However, the funds that the Government will save at the expense of damage to culture and science amount to less than EUR 30 million, which is a drop into the sea compared to a huge increase in the planned budget expenditure. Therefore, the selective budget cuts do not reflect rational spending constraints, but rather a reflection of political decisions, political decisions to deplete the scientific and cultural spheres in order to achieve the political objectives of the ruling entity. Or in a more plastic way, John Janša and his criminal click on power do not like smart people. At the same time, the Government is strongly increasing expenditure on budgetary reservations and non-purpose funds. Covid-19, the figure at the Ministry of Finance, amounts to EUR 1.6 billion, which is more than 11% of the total budget expenditure planned. The way and the purpose of the use of these funds remain hazy. In the past, we have already witnessed a criminal channelling of funds from the budget reservations and other items to the Department of Trade Reserves, where public money behind closed doors then flowed into the pockets of private intermediaries, of course those close to the top of the Janša government, who then used the health and economic crisis for war profits. As early as March this year, the Government granted an absolute right to redistribute the rights of consumption between budget lines without any approval of the elected Parliament and without any restrictions, by means of the Law on Public Finance Intervention Measures. Since Parliament has no longer decided on the use of budgetary resources, the Government has actually privatised the budget. It was no longer about public spending of public funds, but the ruling political class with John Janša, headed by public funds, had its own private property. The government thus legalised corruption, which was then introduced by the acquisition of protective equipment and carried out consistently. Following this same Law on Public Finance Intervention Measures, the unlimited right of the Government to redistribute spending rights expires when the budget balance is adopted. However, with the adoption of the rebalance, the government will de facto extend this right by providing more than a billion unintended euro without determining why and how it will spend it. This has created conditions for her to continue to treat public money as her own private property. For this reason, we will not support the balance of the budget or the decree. Under Janez Janša's rule, the budget is a billion-dollar black hole that preys on the public good. What does this mean in practice, however, in the consistent history of the SDS, we know this and we can already experience in weapons affairs and in this mandate in the procurement of masks and fans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u13	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you very much for the infected pay phone first. Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In 2020, fiscal policy in the euro area is adapted to the current situation and is focused on measures to prevent the enlargement of covida-19 and the recovery of the economy and on the income position of individuals. There has been a recent agreement at EU level on a recovery package. All of these measures, or will have a significant impact on public finances in the coming months, and therefore a temporary derogation from the rules is also possible due to exceptional circumstances, the insecureness of the parameters of the assessment of public financial policy, the tolerances of fiscal rules at national and EU level and the focus on measures related to the control of covid-19 infectious disease, but the amendment of the decree only for 2020 is proposed for this year. The preparation of medium-term changes is currently difficult due to the uncertainty of macroeconomic developments, and the revision of gross domestic product for 2019 is not yet published, nor is the autumn forecast of the UMAR. Taking into account all the above assumptions, the so-called principle of exceptional circumstances and the general derogation clause at European Union level, allowing temporary derogations from fiscal rules, shall be applied. The proposed Decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budgets for the period 2020 to 2022 is, of course, also bound by the rebalancing of the state budget for 2020, which we will adopt today. Now, specifically, to the framework or to the framework. Let's take a look at the state sector first. The country's target balance for 2020 is reduced from negative 8.1% of GDP to negative 8.6% of GDP. The country's maximum expenditure for 2020 is rising from €23 000,630 million to €24 000,650 million. The difference is therefore a thousand 20 million euros. Let's take a look at the state budget. The country budget target balance for 2020 is reduced from negative 8.1% of GDP to negative 9.3% of GDP. The maximum expenditure on the state budget for this year is rising from €12 000,525 million to €13 000,395 million. The difference is therefore EUR 870 million. And let's take a look at the medical checkout. The maximum level of expenditure on health allowance for 2020, i.e. for this year, is rising from €3 000,320 million to €3 000,370 million. So the difference plus 50 million euros. The Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support the Decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The text is by the Alenka Bratušek Group of the Party, Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u16	Dear President, Minister, colleagues! The proposal for a decree is based on the provisions of the Fiscal Rules Act which may derogate from the medium-term equilibrium of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget or in the event of exceptional circumstances, including the covid-19 epidemic. Let us recall that this is already the second change of decree in the last four months. The May change has raised the country's expenditure by just over 2 billion. It raises the current expenditure for an additional billion. The government also raises health-care funds for EUR 50 million in order to reimburse the material costs incurred by health-care providers due to the epidemic. This year, expenditure of €13.4 billion is planned below the line. In preparing the amendment, the Government did not prepare the state sector's updated forecast for 2021-2022, as it did not prepare for the May amendment of the decree. It is clear that we cannot expect that this year's changes will not affect the situation in the coming years, so we would have expected a framework from the Government before the adoption of the budget, which would also include a medium-term aspect for at least the next two years. All of this can be understood in the SAB, as rapid and effective adoption of measures was essential to curb the spread of infection. We cannot understand, however, that the Government has still failed to explain in the documents it has prepared how it intends to resolve this difficult situation. We are concerned that this government does not have a vision of how it will solve the crisis, but this does not prevent it from continuing to be indebted in terms of increasing expenditure that does not have to do with covid and is not necessary. With such a drastic deterioration in the state of public finances, the government would be expected to reduce expenditure on the expenditure side. Contrary to the above, expenditure for the last three months of the year is disproportionately and uneconomically increased in users, such as the Cabinet of the President of the Government, government services and the Government Office of Demography. It is the responsibility of this Government to ensure, in the event of a record commitment, renewed economic growth and transparent use of crisis funds. We expect transparent documents from which the outcome of the crisis will undoubtedly be clear. It is worrying that the recovery plan has not yet been known. Therefore, I repeat that we are rightly raising the question of which route Slovenia will take. Can we really expect Zujf two and a re-reduction of wages, especially pensions? What about the country and the economy? We rightly expect answers, but unfortunately we are not able to get them from the government. In the light of all the above, the proposed amendment to the SAB Decision will not be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The budgetary framework, which sets out the ceiling for expenditure, is one of the measures that enhance budgetary transparency and improve the planning of expenditure of all four public funds. The starting point of each applicable fiscal policy is the scope of public spending. This dimension is not determined by the need for fiscal policy in itself, but by the needs of society for public services and services. The proposal for a decree sets out the target balance and the maximum level of expenditure of the State sector as a whole, as well as the state budget and the health treasury. The decision on the framework for the preparation of the budget in the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022, the amendments to which are the subject of today's treatment, was adopted by 25. 4. 2019, with projected economic growth of 3.1% at that time this year. Then, a year and a half ago, we also found this: the structural balance will improve by 0.1% of gross domestic product at annual level, such fiscal effort will not negatively affect economic growth. The policy of reducing the structural deficit is designed to make the expenditure of the sector grow slower than nominal economic growth and slower than the revenues of the state sector. By 2022, the surplus of the sector is projected to reach 1.2 % of gross domestic product. And then there was the virus and there was 11. 5. We changed the decree for the first time in 2020. Today, on the basis of the latest forecast by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, we expect a 7.6% decline in economic growth. The depth of the fall will depend in particular on the duration of the epidemic and the recovery of the international environment. The forecast of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development also foresees a very large decrease in exports, by 15.9%, and imports by 16.2%). The drop in investment is expected to be 15.5% and private consumption of 6.9%. State consumption as a compensatory effect of all of this is expected to grow by 3% in 2020, contributing to the smoothing of the decline in economic growth. In the Desus Group, it seems important to express our commitment to projections of the movement of macroeconomic aggregates prepared by domestic and foreign institutions. They produce their projections at a time when it is not known how long the pandemic will last, how deep the crisis will be, how economic activity will be affected by the measures applied and implemented by countries, and in particular how the future interaction of global economies will be. The change in the decree raises the expenditure of the sector by a billion EUR 20 million, to 24 billion 650 million from 23 billion 630 million. The country's increase in sector expenditure is mainly due to an increase in the expenditure of the state budget, which is increasing by EUR 870 million to a total of EUR 13 billion 395 million. Thus, the share of the state budget expenditure in total expenditure rises to 54,3 %, which is a record high compared to the previous decrees. Health expenditure also rises to €50 million, a total of €3 billion 370 million. In all of this, it is impossible to get past the debate or, more precisely, the warning of various forms of risks of not achieving realistic measurable and achievable goals. Ladies and gentlemen, the most risky thing is not to take risks, but it is short-sighted, the most risky thing not to act. It is precisely because we are working that the Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support the proposal for amendments to the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us an amendment to the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020-2022. The cause of the change is, of course, the covid-19 epidemic, which has affected Slovenia, not only Slovenia, but also other countries of the world. The amendments to the decree show that spending is increasing, spending on health bills of EUR 50 million is increasing, which is certainly a positive step forward. From our point of view today, we were able to hear how the government has no vision and does not know how covid-19 is solved. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are convinced that the government of Janez Janša and the coalition have clear views, clear objectives, as can be seen from the measures taken so far. The main objective is to stop the spread of covid-19 and help the most vulnerable groups, help people, help the economy and preserve jobs. These are certainly measures that have proved to be successful and effective. Finally, Slovenia is among the better countries when gross domestic product falls. Undoubtedly, the 2020 budget rebalancing, which is also linked to the amendment of the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020-2022, is clear that this rebalancing is aimed at people and targeted at helping the economy. These are certainly measures that will help to increase revenue in the future, the revenues that have fallen most due to covid-19 at a given time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are confident that due to the measures given, we certainly do not expect a new Zujf to be adopted in the future, as already mentioned by the Minister of Finance. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Decree amending the framework for the preparation of the budget of the state sector for the period 2020-2022.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. I find that a lot of the announced Members of Parliament have been checked out, one of which is not, is Jani Möderndorfer. Marko Bandelli, is he here? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I don't have much more than what I've already said in my position. I'm the only one who's worried about this, that's a change now, that's another change in this decree. The first change, which clearly showed us that two billion are needed and another billion is needed, I wonder if that is enough, if that is enough, or if it will require any change in this decision. Because now, as you can see, everything is forgiven, so it's all allowed, if you say so, because these exceptional circumstances are, if you say so. But how far is this limit, where are we going to go? Everyone's clapping, you know. Yesterday, even a colleague said that the balance sheet was socially oriented. The balance sheet is not social. It is normal for you to make sure that you can help all categories in this way, which is also the right thing to do. I agree with that, too. But how long will it take? Is that really necessary? Whether we are already at this stage or perhaps the reservation we have in the balance, which is not yet explained today, exactly where and why it will be directed. They're very tall, given what's necessary here. You know, with such injections, everyone is satisfied, of course, that they must be satisfied with certain eyes. On the other hand, I am looking at measures in all antikron laws, from the first to the fourth, we do not know what lies ahead in the fifth. And it helped, of course it helped, I have to confirm that it helped. But it didn't help all the categories completely, and a lot of things that were also promised, there were no rents, for example, craftsmen, small entrepreneurs didn't come to that, those who can't use a shorter working schedule, those who can't use less working days, that's the problem. But they also suffered damage and that's where we were proposing that that famous voucher could also be a little extended to the area especially those stores that were forcibly closed, because it's not true that it suffers only one sector, as you said yesterday, of course a certain more, certain less, but not only those. With these vouchers it is so far that we are only looking at tourism, which I agree and I am very pleased that it has even come to this and that we have also cashed in a few vouchers. Let's hope more, let's hope that you'll be so judgmental that the period of use of this voucher may be in the following year or for any other winter possibilities, for example, for the purchase of ski tickets, if I give you an example. It was also a good idea to get people back on the ski slopes if they're open. We will see what the causes and what the epidemic itself will do. Now we're talking about this decision. The only concern I have, as I've already said, I'm waiting, I'm really waiting for you, from the government, for some light at the end of this tunnel, how you're going to solve this difficult situation. How is it supposed to get out of this thing? You have no vision of how to solve this crisis. Just money, get credit and help certain categories. But that's not a solution. That's waving holes, I'd say. That's how you plug a hole that leaves a lot of places, plug 'em up. But how to make that water tower rise again. That's the problem, if you know what I mean, Minister. And that's what I've been asking you all along. And I don't get any answers. I hope that in the coming months something will come out, what activity, what initiative, what acceptance. Indeed, I would not want this to go into the sense of shrinking, squeezing, reducing wages again, pensions and limiting certain other matters, as we have already seen in 2012. So much for me, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Minister, you have the floor if you wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you, President. I am speaking mainly because Mr Bandelli has said several times today that he does not get any answers. I gave very precise answers yesterday. I gave them Saturday, very precise answers to questions. I think we can go and look at the magnetogram, what I said about the vision, about the strategy, about whether the other Zuyf is going to be or not. However, it is difficult for me to discuss in general in this sense that, on one hand, I would say, look, I am very concerned that so much expenditure is given for certain purposes, for which we do not even know where we are giving them and so on. Here I take this debate from you, Mr Bandelli. On the other hand, we say, you know what, but some still need, and some would still get, and more expenses are needed. These are two completely different things. This is said, on the one hand, a little more needs to be given, and on the other hand, we can no longer give, because this is going too far. But I am constantly speaking, and I will now repeat again, for the first time, that these measures, which were taken in PKP1, 2, 3, 4 are focused on keeping jobs, keeping businesses from going bankrupt. And if we look at the data on how many of them went because of the fact that economic life actually stopped for three months, we can see that there was a normal number, maybe a slightly higher number, but not as much as the whole situation, when life, economic, social and so on, stopped. These companies continue to work and work and the unemployment trend has begun to decline. This was a strategy in the first moment, in the first weeks, in the first months. Now we're out of this. I'm not saying there's no need to help anyone else. Yesterday, I was talking about the sectoral nature of this crisis, that some are more affected than others, and that, for example, we are helping tourism as well. It may be necessary to help someone else, I agree here. But on the other hand, we also have control over the entire debt and the entire deficit. Which means it's not going anywhere and we don't know what it is. For the reserve it was said, it is intended exclusively for covid, to mitigate the effects of covid. We know what this is, special accounts are, special accounts are in the third part of the budget, where you can see according to individual items, according to individual articles, where they gave money, how much money was involved. I have probably read individual numbers five times in this National Assembly at budget meetings. But maybe I can do it again. And after all, I think if I say if it's written, if it's proven to count. But we can spin all the time in the same way that it doesn't. But it is. This is actually written in part three of the budget. And we know exactly where we're going. You're saying we don't know where we're going with this. Today we are making a decision about how we can use the Kalika, which means that today we know why and yesterday we knew just as well. And the strategy is that we are now removing administrative obstacles, bureaucratic obstacles to making it easier to invest in infrastructure, road and rail, in nursing homes, in health homes. But this will have to be covered by a reform project so that we can benefit from European funds. And you know exactly where it's going. And it is well known that it is to ensure better human health, better health, better health care to ensure an adequate life in age, in order to ensure a certain standard of people, in order to increase wages. You know exactly where it's going, and you know exactly what it is. By also increasing productivity, by taking into account in all industries, in all sectors of life and in the economy as much digitisation as possible, this is the perspective that is set and that we will protect the environment, and that is what is known. I've done it again. I've done it a little bit. I've done everything I've said on my own. In return, all expenditure for individual purposes is clearly visible. They are further defined more precisely in the law than in the cost of easing covidkris. For people. For people. So from this point of view, I have now said again at the beginning of this debate, because I just don't know, it seems to me that sometimes I don't hear it, but I can do it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you, Minister. I listened very well yesterday, but you didn't say anything specific. Always, look at the accounts, look there, look at the numbers what it is. But in there when you look at explanations, it's not clear, it's not clear, I'm sorry, but it's not clear. You also spoke yesterday and made sure that Zuifa two on the bot. You mentioned this thing twice. You know, I was unlike the others in here, and you really mentioned that there wouldn't be a Zuif two. I think by removing funds for culture, it's almost the beginning of this. That you have not made it possible to finance projects already acquired in culture, this is also the beginning of this, and this is also the truth. The projects have been shut down. The film production's stopped. Tell me, isn't that it? Isn't that it? I'm just asking you. Look, with wide open hands, we are waiting for Mr Simic's proposal for de-de-barcation. There'll probably be one of the help, and that's what I'm waiting for, personally, because I think he's a professional person and he knows what he's doing. I'm very respectful of him, and I'm waiting for his proposal on the table. For micro and small enterprises, there were very few benefits and measures, and you know that. I'll tell you from the first person, I won't talk because I can't, but I'll tell you from the first person. It's been hard and hard to get to that promised loan that you can bridge things with. I can tell you a four-eyed case to see why it's going, but let's just let it stand. The reserves you mentioned. Where'd the money go? Of course, where the money will go. Hopefully not for masks or for these so-called respirators, which are only good 16 to 400, and we hear that every day, even harmful are some who are closed and packed. If the money's for these reserves, I'm sorry, but there's no place where you can give all these patients, I hope you can solve this. You, Minister, must give the opportunity to restart consumption. I hope you're as worried as we are about 722 million less VAT. It's pure proof of scaring people who are afraid to spend. And if you don't start spending again in any way, it's your job, not mine, if I were you, I'd give you certain conditions and suggestions, but if you don't run the spending successfully, there won't be any revenue. And we will never save that huge hole we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Once again, I will repeat some of the measures that the Member says are not. For the intervention measure, compensation for salaries, temporary waiting for work – the number of people benefiting from this measure, 147 000 466. We've given $278 million to 65 thousand 770. Number of beneficiaries of exceptional aid in the form of monthly basic income - 51 000 495 beneficiaries, 83 million 175 thousand 277. Exemption of contributions for all social security contributions – 454 000 615 beneficiaries, EUR 124 million 601 000 767. So from this angle, all the data you want here is. Here I can read 40 more of this kind of data. They are transparent, they are public and are also written in the third part of the budget. In the third part of the budget according to individual laws. But this information is being supplemented. Second of all, micro and small businesses. Yes, micro-enterprises, looking at up to 100,000 euros, have flat-rate taxation, 4% of taxes around, one of the most favourable in this regard. Mr Simič has already made all the proposals, so that they have been in public and in public for 14 days. From that point of view there's no, I'll say, they already are, you have to wait. With regard to consumption, consumption, value added tax, when we look at value added tax as a consumption tax, we can see that in August it increased according to August 2019, it is said, compared August 2020, August 2019, by 1.3%, meaning that it is increasing. That's what I said yesterday, which means consumption is growing. So here some information is, even for July is better than it is now. And in this respect, of course, I am pleased that consumption has increased at the existing tax rates of value added tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Comrade Reich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, all present! In the SAB, we are not critical of all the measures taken by the Government and also in this light we welcomed tourist vouchers, which have certainly greatly helped to maintain the vitality of Slovenian tourism and also to increase consumption and also to increase VAT in August, which even by a good percentage, I understand, exceeded last year's rate of tax collection. I would certainly like to refer to my fellow Member, Bandell. In fact, my colleague Bandelli is certainly aware of the length of the debt this year and knows that it will reach 82.4% of gross domestic product. He also said this several times in his discussions. However, it is in the document of this year's budget rebalancing, not to say steal, but also included a forecast for the following year. For the following year, according to the planned expenditure, as foreseen in the two-year plan, these expenditure also increased by EUR 3 billion. And if we were the same revenue as we planned last year, this hole would also be 3 billion euros. But also, Mr. Secretary, your words on revenue are significantly less specific next year. You're saying that in the future, we're going to pay this minus that we've created right now. And the revenue of the budget next year is not so uniform as to be able to say that there will be no deficit next year. On the basis of these available data, we can conclude that the debt of the same size order will be the same as this year. My colleague Bandelli was just talking about how much longer Slovenia can still be so indebted that we will probably end next year by saying that we have exceeded the debt of over 100%. And then we'll have to wonder who else will lend us the money to refinance the projects. And when we talk about this future, how we will repay these debts, of course, it is a broader challenge. Even in the light of how we will use these European funds, there are many questions. Here I would like to highlight bad practices in Slovenia – we financed projects that are generally financed by a municipal contribution through European development funds in local communities. So someone built a house and didn't pay an appropriate municipal contribution to get sewerage, a road, so that with this money that should be developmentally oriented, essentially environmental burdens were saved, while in Austria dirty production was modernised and thus preserved or created new jobs. And that's the essential difference. I therefore stress here that it is very important how we will spend these funds. We are not critical, but we stress the need to create economic growth on the basis of this record-based commitment, so that we can repay these debts that are now emerging in the future. This is your responsibility and we expect that, as was the case in 2013, when the government was led by Alenka Bratušek, she was in debt, but then seven years of economic growth followed. We expect the same from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I find that we have only two more applications, Alenko Jeraj and Mag. Mark Pogačnik. There's no desire to discuss it. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you very much. About the future. See, as regards the future and the following year, this is 2021 and 2022, in about one month, honourable Members and honourable Members, you will receive information on the revenue plans and expenditure plans for 2021 and 2022. I must say that for 2021 they will be prepared not to plan or anticipate, so we are looking forward with optimism, some crisis situations in the sense that the epidemic would cause any closure and so on. But there's definitely going to be a lot of money to pay for health care. Health services will certainly need to be improved, which means that we will also spend most of our resources on health care. This is certainly one of the key challenges for Slovenia, because if we look at health care, we can find that in financing health, given the share of gross social product, we are among those countries in Europe that give less for health. The second thing I would like to say is that we will start using – this year and, of course, even more – the money of the European Commission, so to speak, European money. We will increase investment in infrastructure, increase investment in the care of older citizens, for education. So from this point of view, I also see the possibilities in Slovenia to improve the quality of life and also to invest in those projects that have been talked about for a long time, but there was always something that could not be done, whether it was a permit or an administrative obstacle, in short, something that could not actually be done. It will now. We will remove administrative and bureaucratic obstacles and this will happen. We'll take care of the pension fund, of course. The pension office has its own source, has a contribution, also gets money from Kad. We'll make sure there's more of this money. By making a contribution from the state’s pensionable assets, they would make it an additional resource for the pension fund, including for the demographic picture as it is. I don't want to talk about her anymore. In short, in about a week, two of you will be able to obtain the first documents or documents that will show how we will manage in 2021 and 2022. There will also be a projected debt or some percentage of GDP will have public debt. From this point of view, be assured that the direction is clear, that the objectives in this regard are clear, and that, finally, there are clear ways to reach these goals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. If he also wishes to discuss the Government's representative, please also report by pressing the microphone switch. In this case, he gets the last word. An application for a debate shall be made. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Of course, at the same time, the Minister of Finance, on the second day, has made it more than clear that he has not actually answered more than half of the questions, he did not want to answer them, or he has spoken in general. What's even worse is that it's awful that he talks differently than his secretary of state. In fact, one of the things that we could have followed very closely was, of course, seeing what the President of the Government said yesterday. And he said, "Let us add that, I quote, "the government can explain precisely to every euro why all these funds will be used." So, in all this package, what we're saying is another day. The Secretary of State makes the following very clear on the Committee and denies: “I agree, it is true that perhaps from the figures themselves, from the present record of the budget documents itself, it is not fully clear for what purpose the funds will go.” Now decide who is lying – Janez Janša, you or you have an incompetent secretary of state. But I don't believe it. The Secretary of State is very careful and knows what he's saying. And don't talk nonsense. Which, of course, I can't say for everyone else. If we go to look at the decree itself, in fact, the fiscal world has already told you very clearly that you did not plan it as you really should. You're only talking about 2020. The decree, however, has a very clear title: a decree on the preparation of the budget framework of the state sector for the period 2020-2022. In 14 days we will get a document from the government, the real budget 2021-2022. In 14 hours, will this picture be crystal clear for you and we will go back to correcting the decree or what? One thing I just don't understand anymore. If we go to look at numbers, we'll see that in Article 1, you're talking about a plus, you're saying an extra over a billion, and in Article 3, you're talking about a health treasury or an extra amount that goes from 3,320 to 3,370, which means a little over 900 million are cutting your numbers. You've lost a few million. Either you fix it with a decree or you don't even know what you're writing, or you've deliberately done a few things symbolically, as my colleague Pogačnik would say, because it's paper itself, because they're just numbers. And today he said a phrase that sounded very loud in my ears, and you repeat it many times, which is sounding good: for men we work, for men. Let me know, Minister, what specifics for the people. Don't tell me covid-19 because in this covid-19 you packed everything, especially what we don't know what it is. Be clear. If you have the courage. Because otherwise, I cannot imagine how the 2021-2022 budget debate will be going on in one month and a half, when the numbers will be completely different. I don't know why if you can predict so well how 2020 should be planned, and you're assuming that you have these frameworks, why can't you see it coming? So you can also see how we're going to get out of this trunk and the minus that this government is now creating. Because explaining that we will get no idea how much money from the EU, we both know that there will be more calls to make, that we will also have to succeed in the calls and justify them, and not least more than half of that money will be returned, and that is significantly more expensive than if we went to a lot of commercial credits. And you know it all well. What's more, it's a total breakdown of the public health system. Most of the media did not notice this at all; on Monday, the President of the Government, in response to my colleague, said very clearly the following sentence: "We are starting preparations and negotiations for the identification of public sector services, the administrative part of the payroll system for the creation of new conditions." You know what that means? The end of the payment system in the Republic of Slovenia. The end of the public health system, the beginning of brutal privatisation. And you've been here for two days now, and you've been saying the second day how much more you're going to do for people. We're going back or we're going to. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Yesterday it was also said, and I think you are following all the documents that the Government sends back to the National Assembly, because this is also the Commission's decision to monitor public finances, and up to 30. 6. you have in the National Assembly the exact purpose for which money has been spent so far. With regard to the budget reserve, it has been repeated here, including me and others, that the risk of today is such that we need to increase the budget reserve for some purposes that are not clear today in connection with the epidemic, in connection with the patients, in connection with the fact that we are not living today in a situation that we know exactly how this virus will spread and how it will spread. It's a precautionary principle. This is a precautionary principle that we can do this so that we won't have to do what we did at the first government meeting in mid-March, when we were in the middle of an epidemic and we didn't have any spares, very little spares for drugs, for masks, for ventilators, for ventilators, for medical equipment. At that time, we had to increase our reserve by decree because the previous government did not leave us enough money on reserves to provide people with emergency medical care. We cannot afford such irresponsibility now, we simply cannot afford it. The health situation at home and in the world is such that risks are high. From this point of view, there is also a planned reserve, which is being discussed today, in the budget. Just for that. And that's also stated. In fact, we cannot specify exactly what equipment, what sanitary material, what medical material we will buy, or what the state will buy for this money. We cannot do that because we do not know what the exact needs will be. And we do not know how this health crisis will actually develop. With this view, the budget documents are transparent and state that this will be spent on health care, for the economy, exclusively for the purposes of addressing the consequences of the epidemic. In the programming structure of the budget, if you look at it, honourable Member, it is very detailed why everything has been spent. That's a lot of change. From this point of view, as Minister, I can assure you the transparency and, of course, the validity of these figures, which are now proposed in this budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. The decision on the motion for a decision will be made in half an hour in the framework of the vote. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 20th meeting of the assembly, which we shall continue in half an hour, which is at 10.55 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.22 and resumed at 10.55 a.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u38	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 4, 2 and 3 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2020-2022. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree and the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the draft decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 24. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 24.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 31. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2020. We're moving to budget user 1312, Court of Auditors. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to the Sub-programme Activities of the Court of Auditors. The word is from a colleague of Franz Trček.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u40	On behalf of the Group or on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u41	Probably on behalf of the party, because I recently joined, right? [[Laughing in the hall]] Yes, on behalf of the Social Democrats, of course. Last week, we had a Commission to oversee public finances, where, irrespective of the coalition-oppositional distortion, we agreed that the Court of Auditors is an autonomous body that does its job very well. As a result, he was duly rewarded by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for his 25-year existence; we do not agree with him in many ways on this matter. And at that meeting, it was clear that literally the Court of Auditors does not have money for development, for education, for upgrading the information sector. They spend 92% on wages, then there's a few percent on material costs, and that's it. If we ever need a high-quality Court of Auditors, we need it now, because after all, those first over-scrutinizer – externally, behind the National Assembly – are public finances. That is why this €610 000 amendment, which would or will allow the Court of Auditors to educate a relatively young team that there are even better auditors and auditors, that there are even better audits, and that there is also an appropriate upgrading of information technology, because we have all the mouths of this digitalisation. I hope you support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the State Audit Commission. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, Levica and Sab groups to the Legal Protection and Control Sub-programme in procurement procedures. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Anti-Corruption Commission. We decide on the amendment of the members of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab groups to the sub-programme to eliminate and prevent corruption. We're voting. There are 83 Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups Levica, LMŠ and SD to the sub-programme of equipment and infrastructure. Mr. Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much on behalf of the Group of Members. They live with Počko, a military training centre where they have spent years and years in a shootout, where they drive convoys of military vehicles and stop the traffic through which they fly planes. For many years, seniors and Postojna have been alerting us to this problem. A while ago, the state offered them funding from the Fire Centre in Postojna as some compensation for the inconvenience. So she didn't stick to the deal. They played pingpong with the congregation for years and years. In some ways, the officials were told, the state, we have a lot of you, but the fire department has set up a fire department, whose co-financing by the state is difficult for 250,000 euros. For this money no particular family apartment in Ljubljana man gets. It's been a bit tough on the seniors, as they say. They were overwhelmed by pollution, sound, social, air pollution, water, groundwater, and land. And they deserve a funded fire center, not to mention the fact that this fire station is standing in the most dangerous part of the country, covering Primorska, Notranjska and Kras. Our amendment calls on the Government to fulfil the commitment of the State, which it has already given to Postojnčank and Postojnčev to fulfil this financial part of the financing and finally to make these 250, I stress once again, 250 000 euros, which is a budget change, for the normal operational functioning of the established fire station, so that it is not too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u44	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? My friend Pajovitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u45	I am well aware of Poczk's story and the story of the financing or co-financing of the fire rescue centre by MORS or this country. One part of the country's commitment has been fulfilled in the previous mandate, and for these 250,000 euros, the country is always looking for bureaucratic obstacles to how not to achieve this. The fire rescue centre is fully paid, it is fully operational, but it is a matter of hygiene, it is a matter of the country's attitude towards the local community and the commitments made by the State to the local community. In fact, it is a matter of budget change, but symbolically these 250 000 euros would mean a lot to people in Postojna and Pivska, because we must not forget, the fire rescue centre cares for the fire safety of the entire area, including for fire safety at Poček, has a contract with the MORS. And believe me, with any activity on Pochka, it's always on fire. But people have accepted this as some new normality, but they cannot accept that the state is constantly neglecting, delaying the adoption of environmental documents, still waiting for the DNP Check, we are still waiting for a water protection regulation. The EUR 250 000 would not only mean meeting financial obligations, but rather that the country actually hears, understands and feels with people. In the last few days, the present evil-voice aircraft – a wordplays little: very loud and infamous aircraft – and without living in the afternoon, the children are crying. Of course they're scared. We have a hospital, we have a retirement home, and there's not enough to end up giving these poor 250,000 euros. That is why, fellow Members, all of you in the opposition, and especially as the Postojnci, we call on you to press that plus for at least once when it comes to 250,000 euros. 250 000 euros in a record big budget and a record big deficit. And we probably hope it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Masha Kociper on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much, President. I would like to say one more thing about everything that has already been said about this amendment. Of course, everyone in this house knows what coalition discipline is and how budget and rebalancing and similar documents are confirmed. But not so long ago, if you remember, we colleagues, the same who are sitting in this room today, knew at another budget prepared by the government of Marjan Sarca about exactly one similar amendment. That amendment was of the same minimum value and applied to the burning or how it was damaged, I don't know what kind of cabin it was in Mangart. At that time, we got together nicely to the left and to the right, and we supported one such thing. And this is an opportunity to show at least one gesture in the record budget, in the same way, so that we can vote in small things. That's when we went against us, which is who we were in the coalition with President Marjan Šarc, and today you could do it. We will, of course, support this amendment in the SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Member of Parliament, Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's not a 250 grand problem. I believe the Ministry of Defence will solve this matter, but you should look at the other side if you want the rule of law. The Municipality of Postojna has invested in the District Court in Ljubljana to recover the amount of co-financing of EUR 300,000. Against the enforcement decision this number and this Ministry of Defence, through the State Attorney's Office, objected to the court on 6 December 2018. The District Court in Ljubljana annulled the decision and decided that the decision would continue in a fair trial. In the framework of the proposal for a peaceful settlement of the dispute, the Ministry of Defence proposed a new interim agreement to pay EUR 252 000 to the Municipality of Postojna, which would serve as the basis for payment of the amount of EUR 252 000. By letter dated 15 January this year, the Municipality of Postojna rejected the conclusion of the interim agreement and thus stopped the procedures for a peaceful settlement of the payment dispute of EUR 252 000. In 2018, the Ministry of Defence also filed an action for partial divorce of the contract for the co-financing of local public infrastructure for 2017 and 2018 on the basis of changed circumstances, due to the Decision of the Municipal Council of the Municipality Established for the termination of the agreement of 23 December 2018. So there are other legal issues open, if you want, it's not just about money now. And until this matter is resolved, and I believe that in due course, and that 252,000 will also be announced by the Ministry. But within the rule of law, as we all like to emphasize. That's why we're against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] . First my friend Kordesh in his own name, then Brick and Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Ministry of Defence is covering a whole range of warrants. The military is not the only mission of the Ministry of Defense. The Ministry of Defence also includes protection and rescue, within the protection and rescue of firefighters. At the same time as this budget rebalancing is being adopted, a special law is also being adopted which will allow the purchase of EUR 780 million of weapons by the Ministry of Defence. Now we have on the table the amendment to the Fire House in the Permanent War 250 000 euros needed by this basic infrastructure for protection and rescue. Will this amendment be accepted for firefighters? According to the explanation we just heard, it seems very bad. The money already promised is $250,000 for a firehouse in Postojna. But in this country the promises of a political class, a commitment, if you will, to your own citizens and citizens are not valid. The only commitments, intentional or factual, that apply, are commitments to the NATO Pact related to arms purchases. In Levica, we advocate a diametrically opposite approach to social priorities. The first thing we should be worried about is the first thing we should be working for in politics is the welfare of citizens and citizens. And their safety. But that's the safety that no armor brings, no weapon brings it. This is a security against natural disasters that actually protects the lives of citizens and citizens and their property. But in order to have this security, we need infrastructure. Of course, I will support the 250,000-euro amendment to the Fire House in Postojna. We have nothing to play politics here.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle."
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I will support this amendment because it proves to the National Assembly when it is confirmed that the State's obligations to local communities must be respected. There are still a few amendments that we will talk about today, or we are serious when we make promises and commitments to local communities. Secondly, I would like to say that when Minister Tonin advocated 780 million investments in weapons, he highlighted in particular the role of protection and rescue. And the fire rescue center in Postojna performs this function. Next, I'd like to say that I was a direct user of the Poček field, I was a soldier of JLA in Postojna. There we were shooting, there we were throwing poisons, there were piles of explosives, there we were chopping trees, there we were flying planes, and there were a lot of fires because of it. All of this is happening in Crassus, where there is Poček below the ground, of course the surrounding people were listening and were receiving all of these detonations and so on and below is the water protection area of Crassa. And Slovenia has major water problems on the coast and on Crassus. Therefore, such a thing, where it concerns firefighters, must be kept absolutely by the State's commitment to the fire-fighting centre, which helps in cases of difficulties. The legal basis for this must not be a problem to find. And Mr Minister has a reserve of the state budget of 1.6 billion euros, of which 250 000 to fulfil the urgent promise to the local community Postojna and the inhabitants living here must not be difficult. I'd say Poček training practically means military Anhovo, military Velenje, as far as pollution is concerned, military Celje. And we need to co-finance that. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague named Natasha Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I'll be very short. I'm asking the representatives of the NSI, who are your excuses, I'm not going to ask, but of course I'm going to support the amendment. [[…]] 'Cause it seems unheard of to me that we're going to go to some law-abiding ping-pong. It's like there's a fire out there in the Persistence area and you'd say in the Fire House, yes, we'll just wait for these things to be resolved and let them burn there. I mean, EUR 780 million is obviously not a problem for weapons that will mainly be used on foreign NATO missions, which will be completely useless for domestic security and security. And the problem is fighting, poor 252,000 euros. Members and Members, please reconsider and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you. The word is Frant Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. Look, we usually say the state, the state is territorially organized, there's no need for you to be a spatial sociologist to know that. The country is as local as you want, what we are going here, as the executive branch of power. And, brother-in-law, after 30 years, it's high time for two territorial levels of power to stop being one of Rose's husbands' wars so that we can fight in the courts. In each municipal budget there are a quarter of a million large pennies, including in Maribor, even in Ljubljana, let us stop blinding ourselves. Now I'm gonna be a little personal. My great-grandfather is one of the beginners of firefighting in Slovenia. For a while, I was even the youngest firefighter in Vinica. We also had a shooting at Drežnik because it was almost always on fire. And it's not nice that as a teenager with that broom you're waving and there's a fire behind your back. And I don't usually parade around here in a fireman's uniform, parading on that side. Now let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u58	Anyone else? My friend Pavšič, on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u59	Why am I going to vote for this with ease? MORS violated the agreement with the Municipality of Postojna, so the Municipal Council decided to withdraw from this agreement. And there's something else that needs to be clarified, and in the thermal agreement, there was no reference to the fire rescue centre, but only a few change every year, and this was something that the MORS had been avoiding until recently. And if the contract between the MORS and the Municipality of Postojna was signed, partially realised, it cannot prevent one previous act which was either way harmful. And all I really expect from you, dear fellows, is that once you can appreciate that this harassment by a stronger to weaker one is finally enough. And it would not only be at the symbolic level, as my colleague said, EUR 250 000 is for the budget of the municipalities There is a huge amount of money that had to be laid down in one way or another to complete the fire rescue centre. And how useful it is and how good it turns out to be, not only in the worst traffic accident that was two or three years ago, not only in the case of the acorn, but also in the event of a fire that threatened the health and property of many a month ago. 250 000 euros today is a symbol of whether you support firefighting in the Notranj-Primory and in Karske or not, and this is only because of some very hair-attracted legal barriers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u61	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. I'll tell you very briefly. It is time to end this national assembly by seeking excuses against it, but we really need to start looking for answers for. In fact, look, this National Assembly is not only 90 Members, but we represent essentially over 2 million citizens and citizens. And when it comes to the local community or when it comes to these local problems that we just call them, it is, unfortunately, true. I have also heard this several times at the College of Mayors of Lower Podravje that the country forgets, on purpose, the local community, the municipalities and in fact the problems of citizens and citizens. In this case, of course, I will support the amendment, and I also hope that you will be second. So that you don't just talk about supporting local communities, you can press yes now, and you will support directly with regard to this firehouse home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you. Get Siter on his own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. It's been a long time since I was a senior. They were sick of this constant ping-pong. On the one hand are the Postojnčans, who invested their time, effort, project and resources in this center. On the other hand, there's a MOR who, to say the least, has been picking up curves all along. And he's doing the same story now. I cannot accept these legal and political excuses, which are being smuggled by MEPs and Members of the NSI. There is no legal basis, and we also listened to the Defence Committee when we addressed this amendment by a government representative. Legal basis is a matter of political will. Look at the legal basis for 3 billion heavy anti-Korona measures. No problem, it's a matter of political will. See the legal basis for €780 million difficult to obtain some unnecessary weapons. There is no problem with the legal basis created. The legal basis for something that is difficult is €250,000, which solves the fire safety of the entire most fire-threatening part of the country, and this is where we face such problems. However, there is no law to be written, no small sub-legal act can be written or any contract to revert to, which the Government could easily do and extort from these financial torments. $250,000, please. I will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Dushan Shisko in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, my friend! I come from Posavje, from Krskov, we have an airport, on Thursdays they have daily exercises both by helicopters and by airplanes. We also need a firehouse in Krka and Brežica. And you won't believe it. For eight years, the Christian congregation splintered and went into an investment to build this firehouse. And please, not now here is something from Nate, some of it, so, in this vote, my colleagues from the Left, I'll regret it, because you also have a prominent member in Brežice, but he didn't give an initiative to make any progress with Kršek because of the airport and daily flights and also the exercises that Nato has there several times over mine as at Poček. Thank you. My voice will be absolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you. Luke Moon, on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u67	Yes, thank you for your word. This year's budget has a record deficit of 4.2 billion, and you are members of the coalition, who, last year, started shouting and screaming for the abolition of supplementary health insurance, which would not even bring a minus in the budget, now at 4.2 billion, you just winked with your shoulder. And I really don't understand how the same MPs that you spoke when you were in the opposition, that it's completely unheard of, that the middle governments never support you with any amendment, now you can't find the political will to press the button for these 250,000 euros. Why, we are talking about a poor firehouse that was promised to a congregation that has a military training center there! And you, among the 4.2 billion deficits, in an item at the Ministry of Finance for 1.6 billion, which is one of hundreds of items, then you find 1.6 billion unallocated money for the purpose of fighting the epidemic, you do not find 250 000 euros in all this money to finance a firehouse or to give at least some minimum concession to the opposition, who jointly proposed this amendment on behalf of the local community. I really don't get it. But, of course, I will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] No, no, no. We are voting on the budget user of the Ministry of Defence, the sub-programme of Equipment and Infrastructure. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and to the Sub-programme Operation of the System for Protection, Rescue and Assistance. First, we decide on the amendment of the LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 84 Members present, 29 votes against 39. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD groups to this sub-programme under number 2. My colleague Kordesh in the name of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, chairman. Voluntary fire companies are the largest solidarity network in this country. In the circumstances of the covida-19 epidemic, some lost up to half of their resources because, clearly, events were banned for reasons of public health and the revenues from the fireflies were therefore dropped. This would not be wrong if the state responded and the volunteer firefighters came to the rescue. After all, in the epidemic, they became violent, especially in what smaller communities were the ones who organized supplies and the like for the most endangered inhabitants of their villages. But the government's actions are out of the question. We are therefore spending €7.8 million in this amendment in Levika to help and support voluntary firefighters and their societies. It's a patch on the wound, it's some kind of emergency help, it's 1% of that amount that the same Ministry of Defence is planning, the same government is throwing Janez Janša through the window to buy unnecessary weapons. Ladies and gentlemen, where was your weapon and your armored men at the peak of the covida-19 epidemic in its first spring wave? We were assisted by doctors and nurses as well as by volunteer firefighters. At the very least, it is for the state to return the favor and support it by these means in its budgetary policy. I've heard some criticism of this amendment of ours that this solution is not systemic. It is true that this solution is not systemic, because we are dealing with a budget rebalance rather than a sectoral law governing the functioning of the protection and rescue sector. And the budget balance is accompanied by documents that direct funds, and these funds are being channelled further to this executive power. That's exactly what we do in Levica. So €7.8 million for emergency assistance to voluntary firefighting companies. Nor do they stand up to any explanation from the representatives of the executive branch of power who say yes, but we will help next year. Ladies and gentlemen, if it burns, will you wait till next year for the fire truck to put your house out? You won't. We can help right now. This isn't a big amount, and fire companies really need these funds. 7.8 million euros for voluntary firefighters – this is our amendment and we will support it in the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? Comrade Montenegro, on behalf of the MP? In yours? And then, my friend Siter, first.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u71	Havela is beautiful for words. Voluntary fire companies in Slovenia are not just firefighting companies, they are a source of protection and rescue. In many urban communities, local communities, rural communities, and in a number of settlements, there are much more. Voluntary fire companies are the core of life in many communities. They are the core of social life, including entertainment, if you want, solidarity aid and as such form communities themselves. The political decision is whether the state will live in prosperity or poverty, in a safe or dangerous environment, or whether citizens will receive solidarity aid or not. I have no doubt about the good intentions of firefighters, even without financial assistance, we would step in the path of solidarity from our own self-sacrifice. But without financial support, voluntary fire companies simply cannot function. The epidemic has affected them where it hurts the most, i.e. in their financing. It is always a matter of political decision to use these 7.8 million, which, I repeat, only one percent of what the Ministry of Defence intends to use to buy additional weapons. Just one percent of that. This systemic doubt, too, that how we are going to divide it now, given that voluntary firefighting companies are financed differently, where the municipality finances more, there is more revenue from their activities, joys, sales of calendars or nothing else – this doubt is also superfluous. The amendment and the initiative of the government, which we addressed in the Levica Group, says: Government, book these funds for the Firehouse Association, they are experts, the most mass organization in Slovenia. They are experts to come up with a key by which these funds will be distributed in order to fairly reach every voluntary firefighter society, one more, the other less, depending on the need. Of course I will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you. Andrey Chernigoy, on his own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you, President, for your word. I will vote against this amendment myself because I do not agree to populist solutions, which at first sight seem to be good, and they are not even patches, because we need quality equipment and a stately coordinated system. The search for attention, in this case Levice, which was not even aligned with the Firehouse Association of Slovenia, shows the unreality of the proposal. That is why, once again, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you very much. My friend Brickler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, in Anhove, a voluntary firefighting company with a tanker transports water to people who do not have drinking water provided in this place. When the airport of Levec was on fire at Celje, it helped professional firefighters volunteer fire companies, including Petrovč. When there is a need for supply, as previously said, at the time of the epidemic – we do not know how this story will take place by the end of this year – firefighting societies help. Voluntary fire companies help to rescue, extinguish, and cover roofs that are broken down anywhere in Slovenia. This is volunteering, solidarity in this country, which needs to be supported. It is practical for organisations and people who sacrifice their lives free of charge, voluntarily, when they help rescue or extinguish in dangerous conditions, they are called voluntary firefighters, and this must be addressed by at least some minimal support. I would remind you that we have dealt with several laws that also concern road traffic rules and drivers, and we have highlighted and given special attention to firefighters. I will support this proposal because it helps volunteer firefighters both in Krška and in Postojna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you. Comrade Bostian Korazzi.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u77	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Look, we're not all home from Ljubljana or from some big cities, some of us come from a clean periphery. I come personally from Haloz, although I am now on Ptuj and I can tell you that voluntary fire companies are in fact the first to jump to help in all cases, be it natural disasters, fires or any other accident. And without these people actually sacrificing their lives in the first place, because they are constantly putting themselves in dangerous situations and in dangerous situations, life - threatening situations, in fact, to save the lives of others, to give up their time and to give up their families. And in such a case that the state says or that the government says, in fact, that it raises its hands above it or that it does not want to help them, it is indeed distasteful. Distasteful. Look, volunteers only want to help themselves. They don't want financial incentives for themselves, they actually want financial incentives to help, so they can buy the equipment they need, cars and other things. Not that they have to sell calendars from door to door and arrange some average fun to get some change. I also told the committee when Mr Bandelli commented on these matters that voluntary fire companies should be 100 % funded directly from the country and actually have the constant support they need, whether it be financial or any other, all-support. Of course, I will support this amendment because I support not only voluntary firefighters, but I support that people help each other and that we are solidarity. If anyone here doesn't understand, then I really don't know. Solidarity comes first, that we support each other and help each other. If we do not continue to cultivate or sacrifice ourselves for these matters, this National Assembly makes no sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you. She's a colleague of Violet Tomic's in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment. I'm surprised people on the right are laughing, telling us we're populists and so on. And you're the one who's the one who stresses that we need security. But our safety is by no means armored somewhere in Afghanistan, our safety is to be helped by someone who burns our barns when our house is on fire, when our roof is flooded, when a traffic accident occurs, when the discharge of toxic liquids into drinking water occurs, when the drought occurs, when it comes to the barn and it could still be listed. This is the safety of every Slovenian and Slovene woman and their home. And that should be the priority of every government. So I really don't understand those mocking sounds from that side. Voluntary firefighting society is the network, the richest and most diversified network of societies throughout Slovenia and has not only a solidarity function and a rescue function, but it also has the highest function, I would say, glue throughout the centuries, because we know that firehouses were the only cultural homes, the only centres of meeting and entertainment. The firefighters always helped themselves with the fun, the luck. These have always been major events in the countryside, as well as in Ljubljana. And now, because of the co-vide, they cannot organize these events, so it is high time to understand their plight and to systematically come to their aid. This rebalancing is a good opportunity. We know they're climate change, maybe you're denying them, but they're a constant, and they're going to get worse, and there's going to be fire companies that are still going to be needed to bomb and keep our homes safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you. Mia Kordish in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you. Personally, I'm not exactly the kind of person to go to the firehouse, even though it's happened that I went to some beer at Grenc when there was a party, but I know what solidarity is. And I know that voluntary firefighting societies are the largest solidarity network we have in this country, which has survived and has been involved in various political and economic systems. This 7.8 million-euro initiative to support voluntary firefighters has not grown on my lawn, but we have invested it in the parliamentary procedure on the initiative of our members, members from the Left, who also act as voluntary firefighters, actively, at the end of Gorenje. They introduced us to the problem of voluntary fire companies, helped us prepare a government initiative and, after all, to design this amendment. Indeed, once again, this is not a systemic solution, but the area of financing voluntary firefighting in our country does not already have systemic solutions, serious systemic solutions and support at national level. With the balance of the budget, we are saving only what we can resolve in 2020. And voluntary fire companies have this problem that along with the ban on events, the Crown took half their income. And it is the state that is called first and foremost, that such a solidarity network returns their self-sacrifice when it comes to problems. Not that we have a current minister in the area of protection and rescue to roll and serve beer on fireflies when it is necessary for voluntary firefighters to spend money, but the box with a bag of money is closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. I admire your concern in Levica because that's how you feel about us firefighters. But I advise you to go before the National Assembly first and tell your parents to stop smoking in front of the National Assembly. Stop cheap populism! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Buddy Robi Pavšič in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u85	Well, today's meeting is expected. You have already refused to retain funds for the Court of Auditors for the State Audit Commission. I understand that, but you're afraid of someone looking at you in more detail. However, I do not understand how you can reject EUR 250 000 for the fire rescue centre, including by explaining the quasi-legal obstacles and by explaining that others have not received it. Well, let me tell you, last year, Krška received 800 000 euros, Pivka 600 000 euros, Illyrian Bistrica 300,000 euros, and There is no euro. And now we are slowly approaching taking away the system, the entire national system of €8 million with a balance of protection and rescue. 8 million euros. Let's be clear. We are not giving extra money to the system of protection and rescue, but we are trying to preserve what has already been in the budget. At the expense of Covid, this excuse is taken everywhere, but I would understand some marketing actions, and the awareness of what you are doing to your liver, even though it may be useful many times, but I cannot understand that it is giving up money to people who care for everyone who is in this country, whether it is citizens, citizens or even those who come to visit. You're giving them the means to a normal job. And given the total amount of everything, it's actually also this 7.8 million, it's actually a change. Yesterday we were talking about billions, like candy growing on trees, so they could be scattered. So far, we're not even about 20 million with all the amendments, and yet we're not. I will certainly confirm it with joy and always.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Ori Bear in Own [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Gradually, colleague Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My procedural proposal is that the meeting shall continue in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We are now in the voting phase on the amendments. We had a debate yesterday. Some of them gave her a hard time. On one occasion, Dr. Milan Brglez, president of the National Assembly, said: An explanation of vote means that everyone is engaged in their own vote. And please continue strictly with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u88	Comrade Horvath, I think we are acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But we must all admit that this question is very delicate. And if I'm going to go into every word he's saying and judge him as to whether he's explaining his voice in the right or wrong way, then we're not going to finish this vote by midnight. I think that this explanation was perfectly correct and that there is no need for any intervention. Buddy Rudy Bear.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much, President. I'll deal exclusively with my voice. Of course, I'll mention the problem we're talking about. That's probably understandable. It is amazing how many politicians, in the event of a natural disaster, are quick to change into a civil protection uniform and take pictures with firefighters, flick at the shoulders and, of course, sing praises to our heroes. When it comes to taking a step longer, there's a problem. You know, fireflies are not as they were many years ago to be organized to honor the purchase of a new syringe. You know that firefighting equipment is much more demanding today and much more expensive and aid than we propose with this rebalancing is, in fact, assistance to the municipalities, as the municipalities are mostly financed by voluntary firefighting companies. The municipalities have had and still have very large expenditures at this time, which even at the expense of the average cannot be compensated, and, of course, firefighters as a result. But when I hear that we're going to solve something systemic, and then we're being taught by experience, and I have quite a few of those experiences when we say we're going to solve something systemic, it means we're not going to solve it. And the support of this amendment would in fact be some compulsion and some symbolic act, but the funding of voluntary fire companies in this country will once and for all be regulated, as it is called, systematically. That is why, of course, I will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you very much. My colleague Natasha Sukich? [[No, no, ……]] No, anyone else? [[Yeah.]] Colleague of Matey Udovč, on his own behalf
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we're talking about populism, it's populism, it's not populism. We're talking about politicians who like to change when they step out of this room, into uniforms, uniforms and photography, and today they're voting against it. Yeah, I'm voting against it, too, because it's just a common populism. But I can speak from my own experience. The former government had the Ministry of Public Administration. They were preparing the Law on the Deploration of the Congregations. What did they do for the fire department? They're not. When it was necessary to give votes when they had the opportunity to vote for firefighters, they were the most opposed to today's amendment so that things could not be settled for firefighters. They once told me where you had the right to speak on behalf of the students, who gave you the right? Who gave you the right to speak for firefighters today? They're standing behind you? Yeah, I'm sure they're standing there, they're firefighters, we are, and we'll always work for people, not because they'll be paid. And these things about funding for some are really not clear. We don't collect money on the road, and unfortunately fire companies have different sources of funding. But the Fire Act clearly states how municipalities must provide fire safety and how they must provide funds. Because it's populism today, so it's populism, I'm going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u92	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, we are not in North Korea, we are still a constitutional parliamentary democracy, because Article 82 states that we are not bound to any instructions. And according to the logic of the colleague, each of us could only speak what he used to be. We have to get the MPs into a thousand and one thing. And this is an insult to Parliament and to the function of Members [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u94	Comrade Duck, you're abusing the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u95	by a Member who was, after all, a member of that Government [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u96	What's your proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u97	My proposal is to suspend the session in half an hour and go to the coalition reading of the Constitution. They can read it at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u98	This is an abuse of the rules of procedure, Comrade Trček. It's a warning. My friend Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u99	Procedural. President, you can warn your SMC party forerunner that the Mira Cerar government was the one who fought full with firefighters, otherwise its professional work, and did not want to raise their wages. The uniformed firefighters snuck onto Gregorčičeva in a full line. At the time we were in the Left [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u100	Comrade Kordish, where is the Rules of Procedure? It's an abuse of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u101	I'm concluding. Those who defended the rights of professional firefighters. Today we are once again in Levica, defending the rights of firefighters, this time voluntary firefighters, and social solidarity.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u102	Comrade Kordish, you know this is an abuse of the rules of procedure, so I give you a warning. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Please calm down. Procedurally, colleague Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u103	The President, given that some of us were here by 10:00 p.m. last night and we were just explaining what we were saying, I think some things are clear to me, but to calm down a little bit, I suggest we take a 10-minute break, because otherwise we're not going to get to the end of this balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u104	Is there anyone else for 10 minutes? I suggest we do at least five more amendments, and then we take a break. Okay? Okay. So, anyone else here? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2130 – Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and to decide on the amendments tabled to the three sub-programmes in this budget user. First, we are moving to the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure. We decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 47. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme creating jobs. we decide on the amendment of the delegations' groups Levica, LMŠ, SAB and SD to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 49. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme to support small and medium-sized enterprises. First, we decide on the amendment of the LMŠ and SAB groups to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Infrastructure and decision-making on the amendments tabled to these sub-programmes in this budget user. First, we move to the renewable energy subroutine. We decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ and SAB sent groups to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Now I'm asking you, since you've had a good run, 15 minutes off? Shall we keep going? Okay. We are moving to the Sub-programme Effective Energy Use. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme. Mr Baković, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u105	I'll be very brief. Energy renewal is extremely important and, of course, I will support this amendment myself. However, it refers to the energy efficiency of buildings, which are extremely important, both for external appearance and for other parameters. To this end, we would devote quite a few resources to improve this situation, including two facilities located in Kočev on the Ljubljana Road. As I said, I will support this amendment myself and ask for the support of the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46]] . I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Development of the highway and road network. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 1. Mr Baković, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u107	I'll be here in a minute. It's about overcoating a road that's in extremely bad shape. It's not a big deal, it's 250,000 euros. However, the road, which is extremely important and relates to the H1 relation of Ljubljana-Reka, is increasingly burdensome. That is why I will support this amendment and, of course, I ask for the support of the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47]] . I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 49. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 49]] . I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2431 – Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to the Sub-programme Investment activities on railway infrastructure. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 47. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 47]] . I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user of the Ministry of Environment and Space and to decide on the amendments tabled to the five sub-programmes in this budget user. First, we are moving to the Mine Sub-programme and the rehabilitation of mining damage. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47]] . I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to subroutine water management. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 1. My friend Buckowitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u109	As the largest municipality in the territory, Kočevska has quite a number of isolated farms that are not connected to the water network and the construction of water cover is extremely important for them. These farms represent a significant proportion of the agricultural economy. This construction would mean an extremely important jumpboard for them, both forward and for development. That is why I will support this amendment and at the same time ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47]] . I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 2. My friend Buckowitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u111	I'm referring to the last one. In this case, too, they have some water problems in the pond area, which they have left behind because SORIKO has not covered them. It's about the villages and the hamlets around St. Gregor and the neighborhood. That is why I am going to support this amendment, because this will actually enable those people who live there to live a decent life. I'm also asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47]] . I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 3. Comrade Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u113	I don't believe I'm going to wake up as much emotion as I did with firefighters, but it's just that we're coming into the fall, the rain is coming, and whoever you've been watching a few years ago, Laško is one of the municipalities that's always the most flooded, and we have this problem. And if we don't maintain the watercourses, and that's one problem in this country, there will be more of these problems. Therefore, the amendment that the Social Democrats have given us for only EUR 300,000 is to clean up this watercourse on the banks of the Lahomščica stream in the village of Marija Gradec, because it could also save one part of the flood. So I'm asking you to support this amendment. But it's 300,000 euros to save one piece of Laska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme for biodiversity conservation and the protection of natural values. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme. My friend Buckowitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u115	Pragozd Krokar is listed on Unesc's list of natural heritage, important not only for the Municipality of Kočevje, but also for Slovenia and Europe. From there, after an ice age, the beech, which is unique, then spread again throughout Europe. Therefore, certain means are needed to set entry points and to maintain the Krokar jungle system in this area. That's why I'm going to support this amendment and I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you very much. My friend Željko Ciegler in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment because biodiversity and the safety of natural values must also be protected where one of the most expensive options of fast road today is the third development axis, across the Strait of Braslovski Polje and towards Velenj south. I hope that the proponents will also be aware of this and finally defend this position. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the sub-programme Waste Management. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving on to the sub-programme Housing Activity. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme. Colleague Natasa Sukić on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will support the joint amendment of LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab, mainly because it addresses a problem that is very hot, very acute, in fact all the time since independence. The fact is that we do not really have a housing, tax and spatial policy in this country to promote the resolution of housing issues. On the contrary. There is chaos in this area, and it is therefore not surprising that Slovenia is leading in all of the European Union's infamous statistics. I'm talking about the fact that we are at the top of the fastest-growing housing prices, we are at the top of an extremely late-to-be independent youth from primary families, we are at the top of the number of homes that are not suitable for living, and we are at the top of the number of families living in housing poverty, and we could still list. In the last ten years, we have done nothing practical to solve the housing problem. And also in this rebalancing, despite the fact that the SDS party, while still in opposition, was very critical, justifiably critical of this issue, of course this rebalancing practically remains on this zero. Now you've just forgotten all this, unfortunately, and you've gone under the carpet again, and we're at the time of the epidemic. Covid-19 just, I have to tell you, there can't be an answer and an excuse for everything that's not. Such questions, which are acute, are also to be addressed. Of course, I will support this amendment, even because we are currently missing 9,000 100 apartments or more than 4,000 in Ljubljana alone, and this is a really big social problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Colleague Andrea Zabret, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. As the colleague said, it is a housing problem or youth problem that we all agree is a problem. That's why I'm counting on support for the amendment. Funds are allocated for subsidies to young families who for the first time save housing policy. In January this year, the Law on State guarantees for housing loans made it easier for young people and young families to buy their own apartment. In the existing ZIPRS law, EUR 200 million is earmarked for this, for state guarantees, for the loans of citizens who first solve the housing issue, and this form of employment and income does not allow them to obtain credit on their own. Regrettably, given the rebalancing, the existing coalition does not show that it would follow a pre-planned course and proceed with the process of addressing this law on the State's housing loans guarantees, particularly to young families, which would facilitate access to the purchase of their own apartment. Therefore, with the amendment's proposal, we are at least partially solving this housing problem, and I call once again for this amendment to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? If not, Alaj Kovačič in his own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, President. Yes, I know that we are all younger than we are to blame for not going to the elections as much as the older ones, and that is why young people are not as interesting an election base as they are pensioners. Nevertheless, young people need to be cared for. It is this amendment that speaks of young people, for it is very difficult for young people to provide a home. To make a family and actually make a living, home is the beginning of everything. Of course, I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you very much. A colleague of Jerco Korča's in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Housing policy should be the priority of this government and the common objective of all, regardless of which political side we are on. In the previous term or in the government of Marjan Šarc, we have taken this issue seriously and prepared matters after so many years. Today we know that the housing law and obviously something is in the drawer because it is not the priority of this government. On the other hand, this government will find time, energy and more quickly to discuss the establishment of a demography office, even more so, in the budget rebalancing, it is going to devote a very high amount to this, and I strongly doubt that you are aware of what demography means at all. Demography is not something that is fulfilled to obey or satisfy one of the coalition partners and set up a few chairs for new jobs; demography is everything else. The country's housing policy is also an important component of how we deal with the demographic trends we have in this country. That is why I look forward to supporting this amendment, of course I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you. We're voting. There are 83 Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to decide on the amendments tabled to the five sub-programmes in this budget user. First, we are moving to the Employment Initiative sub-programme. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and SAB to this sub-programme. Comrade Aljaž Kovačič, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues! Yeah, it's kind of funny, if not sad, how much money this government has spent, what a deficit is -- 4.2 billion, but even though some jobs have frozen, the results show that people are losing jobs. Compared to last year's unemployment rate, more than 20% of the unemployed in the Republic of Slovenia are today. That is why it is even more incomprehensible that in the sub-programme Employment Initiative, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent ministry actually squander funds. That is why we are proposing, together with the Social Democrats' Group and the SAB Group in the Marjan Sarca List, to provide an additional EUR 4 million to encourage people and to be able to re-engage, because we know that there will be more unemployed people, there will be more money. That is why we will, of course, support this amendment in the List of Marjan Šarcs.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the scholarship subroutine. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Support activities in the field of work, family and social affairs. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors to this subroutine. My friend Buckowitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u129	Yeah. The amendment relating to the construction of a multigeneration centre in the Municipality of Ribnica, in the place where the Ideal Center now stands, is extremely important. At our end, we also have an ageing society, and these multigeneration centres are still important for both the elderly and the younger, of course. That is why I will gladly support this amendment and at the same time ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u130	Thank you. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme of Social Protection Programmes. We decide on the amendment of the SAB, SD, LMŠ and Levica groups to this sub-programme. Mr Reich, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u131	That's it. I want to say why we think this amendment is not only good, but great. This is a measure which would provide primary and secondary school children with three free laundry masks per month. We see that the epidemiological situation in Slovenia is exacerbated and even the Government has prescribed mandatory masking in primary schools and also in secondary schools. Even in this light, that primary education is compulsory and secondary education is essentially a logical continuation of primary education, we propose that our proposal be supported. This is a measure which, in our view, is reasonable and necessary, especially because, if the State prescribes something that is compulsory and results in certain material obligations, we believe that the State is then, at least to these most vulnerable groups, certainly children and young people are obliged to provide these masks. Therefore, we ask everyone to support our joint proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to the long-term supply subroutine. First, we decide on the amendment of SD and SAB's parliamentary groups to this sub-programme, path number 1. Colleague Bojana Muršič on behalf of the parliamentary group. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you very much, President, for your word. After two terms, we could have known each other slowly, but nothing about it. According to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, more than 424 thousand people are over 65. Among them are many who, in fact, because of their illness and other circumstances, cannot live in their home environment. That is why it is so important that we take a step forward and start building homes for the elderly. Therefore, with the support of the opposition parties, we are proposing an amendment to build a home for the elderly in the only administrative unit in Slovenia that does not have it at home, the Ruše Administrative Unit, which has a total of 15,000 inhabitants. In Slovenia there is an immeasurable number of beds, a thousand 326. In recent years it has been invested in the House of Danice Vogrinec, which could build dislocated units, and conditions are good. Ruše municipality has all the conditions, space, location, even municipal infrastructure. That's why we're putting in this amendment. It is also crucial, as shown by covidkris — that Dom Hrastnik urgently needs new spaces. For the situation as it is now has shown that we need gray zones, red zones, and that it is essential to build a home for the elderly. That is why it is so important that we provide all the necessary resources to start building homes for the elderly, because the call for thousands of 100 concessions is not enough. According to the statistics, we're short a thousand 326 beds. And it is unacceptable for older people, when they are 65 years of age, to enter the waiting list so that when they get sick, they will be able to do so after 70 or 75 years, because the waiting period for a home is more than ten years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Comrade Soniboy Prince, on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you, President. Just a complement to the explanation concerning the House of Older Persons in Hrastnik and the need for new construction. You remember the good two months ago when they met with the coronavirus in this house and the visits of both ministers, Mr Gantar's Minister of Health and Minister of Labour, and Mr Gantar's statements at home that such a home in Slovenia should not work in 2020. Standard three- and four-bedroom rooms, modified former student home, in short, I think I've told you more than enough with this information. As a result, the local community has been working for a number of years to rebuild. That is why about €50,000 has already been invested in the documentation, and land is being prepared. In short, it's all at this stage that it can start with parts already this year. We are therefore making use of part of these redistributed funds for this construction. Members and Members of Parliament, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u136	Comrade Matjaž German, did you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Doblekar, on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, President. I certainly support the construction of homes, such and other homes for the elderly. The government, as you know, will go this way to build houses. I would only say that, given that we did not have a home for the elderly in Lithuania, we also asked for funds at the time of the SD government, and unfortunately we were not receiving assistance and then decided to raise funds, take credit and work at the home of older citizens with our own resources, and build it in the local community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 2. My friend Baković, on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u139	Yeah. Just as my predecessors spoke of problems related to the ageing society and to the homes of pensioners, we face a similar situation in Kočev. Otherwise, we have a pensioner's home, but we do not have protected apartments that are not actually in this area, from Ljubljana to us and beyond. Therefore, it seems extremely important for us to build at least 49 sheltered, so-called protected apartments, whose construction would be intended for people over 65 years of age who need help, their needs and their stay. I will support this amendment and also ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 33 votes against. 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, Levica and Sab groups to this sub-programme under number 3. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 33 votes against. 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme under number 4. He's a German friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. It is an amendment that is practically followed by a coalition agreement signed by SDS, Nova Slovenija, SMC and Desus. It is the completion of two homes for the elderly, specifically for the social center in Vrtojba and the one in Osilnica. While the Minister has also answered the question correctly, two solutions are being sought, one is moving slightly, this is to provide additional funds from the budget to complete these construction works, I am talking about two homes that can be completed by relatively small means, and we put them into use. That is why we are helping the government in a way that meets the coalition contract by building, completing two homes for the elderly, as has already been said, it is Osilnica and Vertace. We have therefore tabled these amendments in order to provide additional funds for the construction and completion of two houses, which we could do in the next two, three months if we could also provide funds for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 33 votes against. 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. We decide on the amendment of the SD, Levica and SAB groups to the Labour Regulatory and Control Sub-programme. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 32 votes against. 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Health and to decide on the amendments tabled to the five sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, we are moving to the sub-programme Investment Investment on a secondary and tertiary level. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme. My friend Runk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. KOGE is a shortcut for the Clinical Department of Gastroenterology, in the human language, it is said that if someone looks too much at what we do here, there is a high probability that he ends up there because of a stomach or gallbladder problem. A joke on the side. Most people who land there without a checkup, about 70%, discover such or other carcinogens. My colleague Ivy and I were there, and we promised four generations of top teams that we would help them as much as possible. 40 years ago, KOGE has been operating in a 100-year-old building in Japlevi, which I also said yesterday is the building that is suitable only for the museum of medical development in Slovenia. This year, of course, because of the lockdown, a whole series of studies could not be done, they were always being pushed around, they were looking for some emergency solutions, they were often very aggressive forms of cancer that needed to be diagnosed and dealt with in a timely manner. That's why this amendment, the movement of 25 million dollars of colored money, is finally going to be resolved. It would be nice if you supported this amendment because cancer is similar to covid or SARS-COV-2 does not choose on the basis of party books. Of course I'll support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you very much. A fellow Jew in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you, President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! I want to explain why I will support this amendment and also all others under the Ministry of Health Group. The first reason is quite simple. If Minister Tomaž Gantar cries out that he urgently needs 220 additional millions, only 140 will get them if you don't help him in the coalition, at least we'll try to bring him some more millions with the amendments. Another is also possible one thing that I have been fighting for for a year now, since I met last September, what is happening in UKC Maribor, which was, after 10 years of being treated equally, like other important hospitals, simply released from funding from the integrated budget, as evidenced by the last tables. I know that with these funds we are now merely doing good and we must take the right steps in the 2021 rebalancing and so on. And don't tell me that money will be in cohesion, that money will be out there somewhere. Mariborski UKC has the same right as other Slovenian hospitals, including UKC Ljubljana, even because it covers one third of Slovenia, it has every right to be seen in the integrated budget. Therefore, I will vote in favour and also the other Members and Members, please, let us be aware that Slovenia must be polycentric, not just Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Colleague Bojana Mursic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you very much, President. I'll support the amendment myself. Because UKC Maribor has been neglected all these years. We have spaces that were built in the time of the former South. And it's easy when you walk into these rooms, you're disgusted. And indeed, as my friend Duck has already said, these are the archives. And it is easy for these experts working in this area to deal with such specific patients, both patients and doctors deserve new rooms. It's just a step further. That is why I will support this amendment, and I expect other Members to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to a sub-programme Effective treatment with expensive medicines. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, Levica and Sab groups to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme of Public Health Orders. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ and SAB groups to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Operation of Emergency Medical Assistance and Health in Emergency Situations. Comrade Baković, you have the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u149	This amendment concerns the construction of an education centre for the training of the first mediators. In fact, the First Mediators project has raised a lot of attention in Slovenia and I must say that it is also extremely effective. They were among the first to go to Kočev. And I must say, they have a professional cadre and are extremely capable of training. This would make it necessary and necessary to build such an educational centre. That is why I will support this amendment and at the same time ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We vote on the SD Group's amendment to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the COVID-19 Sub-programme. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme. Comrade Duck, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. Unfortunately Maribor is not only disadvantaged at UKC level, as Dejan previously said, it is also disadvantaged at congregation level. In fact, the Maribor Congregation has the greatest gap between mandatory tasks and funds, which means every year 20 million outages, which then, as far as possible, must be covered by some of the funds collected that could go, say, for municipal and other development policies. Now in this amendment, basically these 10 million are meant for one great shame, which is called the health station or, if you want in the human language, the Health House Thesis. In those good 10 days, when I took my vacation this year, I am going to watch my cell phone on Wednesday and, of course, all the people were sending me pictures of how there are two apricots waiting in front of this house. Now it is probably not European, so we all agree, and it is high time that Mariborians and Mariborians stop being third-rate citizens and citizens at the level of primary health care. I will not ask you to support this amendment, because, of course, under Article 82, you are not bound to the instructions, but you can see that somehow Christian Democrats are sitting in Social Democracy, not here across the street in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Collegiate Lidija Divac Mirnik on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, Medical Station Tezno is a rakrana of all of us who have been sitting for some time in the Maribor City Council for a long time. Here, we can just show the Moroccan Members whether we are or not. I'll vote in favour. I wish that the Mariborians also received proper care and that they do not go to a doctor in or in socialist times, even worse because 30 years have not been invested in this. So it's about time we got this story. It's kind of lame to talk about UKC and those stories anyway. Unfortunately, we don't have just Ljubljana in this country. The second largest city of Maribor, which has unfortunately experienced history, has not yet recovered. And since it might be nice to also be aware that slowly all Mariborians will get away from us because of such moves as they do, I want everyone to support this amendment today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Reich, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u155	I'll explain in my own name. In fact, as a Mariborian, I would like to say first that I would like to speak positively in the National Assembly about Maribor as well. Not as a city of trouble, but as a city of opportunity. That is why I also support this amendment, in order to ensure that, for the health sector, the primary level of the city, additional resources are provided to essentially bring these matters to its citizens. We must not forget that the Municipality of Maribor performs many tasks for the citizens of neighbouring municipalities, and these matters are not paid. Here, for example, I would like to draw attention to Gustav Šilich's elementary school in Maribor. This is a school with an adjusted program that provides services that provides essentially for security guards from 30 neighboring municipalities, for example, to maintain this school on the shoulders of the Maribor Congregation. In fact, when we talk about fair financing, we need to address this issue a little wider. However, I would like to say that Maribor is not a city of problems, is a city of solutions. In fact, it provides an opportunity for young people to recognize the centre of their interests in the future. Housing policy is also much more plural and effective in Maribor than in Ljubljana, as apartments are significantly cheaper and allow young people to start a more quality life. I will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 42. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Public Administration. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups to the sub-programme Editing the field of information society and electronic communications. My friend Edward Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you, President, for your word. The balance of the budget has been taken by €5.7 million by the sub-programme Regulation of the Information Society and Electronic Communications. The funds fell from 6.4 million to 680,000 euros. With this amendment in the LMŠ, Levica and the SAB, we provide additional means of implementing development policies and information technology strategies to digitise society as quickly as possible. If we look at the digital economy index and companies, Slovenia falls below the average of the European Union. Last time we were in 16th. However, we probably all agree that developed information and communication technology represents a strategic advantage for both the country and businesses. A fine example of this is, for example, Estonia, which in the field of digitisation is included in the world summit itself. In these uncertain times, increasing the competitiveness of businesses is also very important in this way. That is why we will support the amendment in the List of Marjan Sarcas, and we will also ask the others to do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and at the decision on the amendments tabled to the six sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, we are moving to the sub-programme Research programmes and projects. We first decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD groups to this sub-programme under number 2. A fellow moon on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you very much. A nice hello! The science item under consideration is the main indicator that this budget is not developmental. You're talking about getting out of the crisis, you're talking about high added value, you're talking about digitisation, and I don't know what, but in fact, investments are being made out of science and culture, and they're increasing on the roads. This shows that, although this country annually educates thousands of people with higher education, Master's degree, doctoral education, the political class and the right-wing government still represent development primarily as investment in construction and roads. The development axis is the name of development. On the other hand, there is a lack of investment where it is most needed and most pertinent, it is said in the most developmental activities. By comparison, in Europe, the average EU member for science and research per year is committed to 1.4% of GDP. In Slovenia this number is almost 2.5 times smaller, 0.6% of public investment in science and research is dedicated to our country. Last year we tried to increase this even a little bit in the budget, and now the funds are being taken back. So I don't know what this country's perspective is with such a development policy, but I can tell you that there is no perspective for young people in this country. According to SURS, 15,000 people moved out of the country last year. By comparison, about 17,000 attended a professional and general graduation. And among those who have moved, there is a variety of highly educated people who, after completing their education in Slovenia, simply could not get a job, a profession, create here some material conditions, good life or existence. This problem needs to be solved immediately. I will therefore, of course, support the increase in investment in science and research, as this is a prerequisite for us to begin to talk about any development of this society at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovacic, on behalf of the delegation? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you for saying that again, President. Yes, it is in fact incomprehensible that the area which is already in crisis is still being taken additionally is being despised. This is certainly not a good sign for the future of all young people who graduate, graduate, and want to be researchers in various fields. And it is even more unimaginable why this government is taking the means of research when the whole world is talking about the health crisis. And I ask you: Who do you think will discover the vaccine in this case, who are these world scientists who are researching? And it's this scientific sphere that your government is taking funds, so I'm wondering who's going to help you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u162	Comrade Duck on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. We are on the political left and in Social Democracy for a different society than this budget is drawing for us. We are for the society of opinion and for the society of culture. And those who talk about smart villages, cities, digitization and so on, that I'll land on KOGE, you put this and you cut it at the same time, and you're allowing what's somehow been going on for a good decade with us, I call it weight loss in the head. You know, this reminds me of that famous river from another congregation in the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia: We are on the verge of falling apart, we must boldly move forward. How? Inconsiderate and uncultured. Of course, this will be supported by the Social Democrats, because we are for a different, inclusive, thinking, research policy. By continuing this deterioration, we will lose the best quarter of young people who are actually the best demographic fund, the only real investment for some pensions when it is time for us to retire. But I don't see it now. However, I hope that the next government will make a substantial increase in the share of GDP in science research and degerontise it. The few pennies who come into this sphere are usually groping gentlemen who don't want to go to the pension; because I worked in this sphere, I know what I'm talking about. The Social Democrats will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Comrade Reich, on behalf of the delegation? [[advertising from the hall]] Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Reich, on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u165	Of course, I will support this proposal. We believe that science must not be squandered and saved, either by ourselves or by the Group of Members. I'd like to point out an even bigger problem here. We have no public research institute in Maribor. The public research institution means the establishment of an institution that could start a development breakthrough in a certain area; of course, I am thinking of digitisation and computerisation here. And if we are seriously discussing the digitisation and informationisation of society, then some such institute, a public research institution based in Maribor, would be needed. The next issue, which must also be addressed, which is not a matter of this rebalancing, is the mobility of professors within higher education. I regret that we still do not have a single state habilitation – a professor from Maribor cannot teach in Ljubljana and vice versa, because this is the domain of each university or university separately. Of course, this is an obstacle to the pluralisation of higher education. I supported this amendment because I think it strengthens things that are our priority, this is a strong and accessible public education for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you very much. My friend Kordish, on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, chairman. This budget balance is practically unlimited. It recognises more than €4 billion in deficit, with the Ministry of Finance spending more than €1 billion and a half euros in undefined COVID item, with which the government or the Minister of Finance will be able to do whatever he wants, beyond democratic control, beyond the influence of the elected Parliament. And although the budget rebalancing is virtually unlimited in this way, the government has cut 30 million euros in resources in science and culture. Therefore, the reasons for this are not financial, they are not economic, they are ideological. The government of Janez Janša doesn't like smart people. In Levica, this attitude of the government, which doesn't like smart people, we are trying to fix, so we have tabled an amendment to the research programme and projects heading for the recovery of funds. This is not our solo action, this is the development direction under which we have signed all the opposition parties. We will contribute votes to the adoption of the amendment and at least part of the unjustly and foolishly seized resources for the field of science and research will return to where they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Enhancing the involvement of children in pre-school education. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 1. My friend Buckowitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u169	Spatial hardships and inadequate conditions in kindergarten facilities are, in fact, a problem throughout Slovenia. It would always be necessary to allocate more resources for this purpose in the budget and in the rebalancing. That's how we have kindergarten problems in Kočev. Last but not least, we need to know that we have the space crisis, that we also have a large Roma community, which is crucial, that it integrates through kindergarten and that it integrates into normal kindergartens. But so far, there has been no success. That is why we have drafted an amendment that co-finances the construction of a 16-sect kindergarten to achieve greater standards and standards, because two of these kindergartens no longer reach them and this one can happen to be closed and then there will be a problem. So here I really appeal to everyone who cares about you supporting this amendment, because I will definitely support it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD groups to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against. 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Procedurally, colleague Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u171	It's just a magnetogram. Now I didn't vote because I thought you gave an explanation to Mr. Koprivec, who said, but only because of the magnetogram. Thank you. I didn't say anything, just for the record.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u172	Will you explain the following? Okay. So we are moving on to a sub-programme of implementation of primary school programmes. We decide on the amendment of the SAB, SD and LMŠ to this sub-programme from number 1. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, SAB, LMŠ and Levice to this sub-programme under number 2. Mr Koprivc, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you very much, President for your word. I wanted to explain the previous amendment, but it's a similar amendment, one for kindergartens, one for primary schools. It is, however, that after many years, or more specifically, the Minister of Education, Dr. Pikalo, has provided funds for the public invitation to tender for the renovation of school buildings or kindergarten buildings. Indeed, as we all know, many school buildings and kindergarten buildings are already very long. There's a lot of serious space distress. We have even come so far that in certain places, specifically in Kamnik, primary school education must be held this year also in the parish, which is in some way, I would hope to claim, unconstitutional. As a result, it seems unacceptable to us that, with the budget rebalancing, the minimum funds provided for investments in school infrastructure are withdrawing or in some way cancelling the call. And we call on these funds to be provided with the amendment. It's really small funds, $11 million. Given the deficit you're causing with this rebalancing, it's really minimal. I think it would be right to ensure that these funds are provided and that it may allow some schools and some kindergartens in Slovenia to be restored, however, and thus ensure normal spatial conditions for work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you very much. A fellow Brickman on behalf of the House of Representatives? Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? No, no, no. In your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u175	I'm sorry, on behalf of the House of Representatives. We support this amendment. It is true that the school year is nearing its end, but the State and the school ministry are obliged to provide conditions for the implementation of primary education, which is legally binding and governed by Article 57 of the Constitution. A number of local communities, including smaller ones with no financial resources, are forced to build an additional space for primary schools and kindergartens before the co-financing call to be tendered by the school ministry. There is still time, and individual congregations, including the congregation from which I come, this is Celje, will start investing in school space. All these municipalities, not many of them, need to be supported by the money available in this year's budget, that is 11 million, basic schools and two kindergartens, in their efforts to provide the necessary space to ensure primary education and accessibility for children in kindergartens in Slovenia. That's why we're going to support this amendment in the left hand side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Implementation of secondary education programmes. We decide on the amendment of the SAB, SD and LMŠ to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the subroutine Food for students, students and students. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving to the sub-programme Sports Infrastructure. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 1. My friend Buckowitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u177	The amendment refers to the reconstruction or adaptation of a swimming pool in Ribnica, which is the only swimming pool in the area from Kolpa to Ljubljana and is crucial for describing the swimming of people living there. It's not a big deal, it's 500 thousand euros. The pool is in bad shape and should be reconstructed. That's why I'm going to support this amendment and I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thank you. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 2. My friend Buckowitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u179	This amendment refers to the construction of a sports park in Ribnica, where infrastructure is weak and lacking. And that's why I'm going to support this amendment and I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u180	Thank you. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme under number 3. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ and SAB sent groups to this sub-programme under number 4. Mr Aljaž Kovačič on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, President. Given that today we have a day of Slovenian sport, which we have confirmed in this Parliament with a large majority that we all like to identify ourselves with Slovenian athletes, even in this National Assembly we applauded the success of Slovenian athletes. In fact, Slovenian athletes have nothing since we clapped, but everyone who works in Slovenia will have something to do with sport, especially children, if we confirm the next amendment, which says that we give 3 million euros for sports infrastructure. I am very interested in how some members of the coalition will vote, which, even in the past, when we had extraordinary committee meetings, speak so much about how local communities are neglected by the state. Of course, we will support this amendment in the List of Marjan Sarcas.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Don't you? Comrade Divac Mirnik in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course I'll support this amendment. Yesterday we were able to see in the media that after all the measurements and those cards that you probably remember well, we have increasingly fatter children who can't make a pass, let alone skip over the cradle. I sincerely hope there won't be a single vote against it. But I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u184	Thank you very much. A colleague of Mojca Žnidarič's own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. I have to call you back because the actual opposition has been deceiving all these amendments. I must say that we are accepting a rebalancing for 2020. And with all these investments, I wonder what you'd do in three months. You cannot select another contractor on the invitation to tender without building these facilities. Don't fool me, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u186	Now I have to ask you to [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Just a little quiet before I give my word for procedural. I must ask you, however, to stick to this procedure so much that you can explain your voice and not argue and deny yourself as you had the opportunity yesterday when the meeting was held. I'm Tina Hefferle's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u187	Yes, I have a procedural proposal, Mr President, to ask or call a Member of Parliament, who has just explained her vote, not to tell how she will vote in this amendment. I really want to know how she's going to vote, given how she's going to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u188	As you have noticed, I am a proponent of a very liberal concept in explanation of vote. Everyone is limited in their time. However, given that this time is spent or intended to explain why you will vote, it is also understood to explain how you will vote. Please follow this principle, and I believe we will bring this matter to a close. We are voting on the amendment of the LMŠ and SAB groups to this sub-programme under number 4, so that there will be no mistake. We're voting. There are 79 Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user of the Ministry of Culture and to decide on the amendments tabled to the nine sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, we are moving to a sub-programme of cultural support activities. We decide on the amendment of SD, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme. On behalf of your fellow Member, Franz Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. That I will not report on behalf of the Social Democrats in a series of amendments relating to culture. In fact, with these amendments, we only return to culture what has been promised to it and what belongs to it. Now somehow this morning, when I was driving, I even heard that the Minister of Culture is dying to give Slovenia more culture than Germany. I'm a little afraid that the first man for culture lives in some parallel universe, that he doesn't even know it. But you know, on the one hand, we, of course, partly mythologically based our national being, if I'm a little teen-fat, right through culture. Josip Jurčič, who made the first cating in Maribor, said if we can't work on the field, politically, let's work on the cultural. I don't know how to cut culture, but do we want this primitiveism that 500 clones from Trstenjak's syringes across the e-space obviously spread across everything? [[…]] Those who oppose these amendments that follow are in fact in favour of a policy of primitiveism. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u190	We're voting. There are 80 Members present, with 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[v. voted 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities. First, we decide on the amendment of Member Sam Bevek to this sub-programme under number one. We're voting. There are 81 Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[There were 47 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SAB, SD, LMŠ and Levica groups to this sub-programme under number 2. Comrade Siter on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Culture has drawn the shortest in this crisis. It shall draw the shortest in these budget documents or in the balance sheet of this budget. Given that it has suffered the greatest damage, we could reasonably expect that the Government will give it the most or at least enough assistance, but it has done exactly the opposite with the cultural sector. Despite the fact that the government has, at that time, advocated the view that culture has not taken much away from it, that it has not taken anything from it at all, the figures show otherwise. The culture has raised good 8 million, media and audiovisual culture 0.5 million, 2 million 300 to protect cultural heritage, archives and libraries, almost 2 million art programs, and 1.5 million to the publishing industry. On the ground, however, programmes in the field of protection of cultural heritage, archiving and library activities that have suffered, as said, 2 million 300,000 euros in damage. With the amendment that we propose, we give nothing to culture or to this part of art and culture, just flicking a hole that was dug by the government of Janez Janša, we only return what the government of Janez Janša took. After this cut, if the amendment is not adopted, this vital area of national culture will be brought to the brink of existence, not to mention archives and libraries, we have been alerting the library problem in Maribor for the whole time, for example, it is not the only library problem in Slovenia. In short, if I repeat myself to my predecessor. We choose the future of Slovenian society, whether it will be civilised or barbaric. Culture and art are the ones who will get our society on a civilized path or keep it there. Culture and not weapons is what the history of the nations says. Thank you very much. In the Group of the Left, we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? [[Yeah.]] Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u193	The government keeps repeating how it has taken nothing from culture in fact, but if we look at the numbers now, this "didn't take anything" actually translates into EUR 8 million. And if you don't have anything like that that doesn't have a Slovenian culture, that 8 million Euros is fucking famous. Why does the government do this in a budget that is practically unlimited and allows more than €4 billion in deficits? Just as in science, where the government cuts, even in the field of culture, Janez Janša and his criminal click dislikes smart people. There is absolutely no other reason, it is exclusively an ideological reason why the area of culture is consumed, just as the area of science is consumed. This applies to different sectors of work within culture, we have amendments for the media and audiovisual culture, where, for example, Minister Simoniti did not cut down on you any funds for the Film Fund. In particular, at this point, we are talking about an amendment for cultural heritage, archiving and library activities. People who read books, people who go to libraries are generally educated, people who are looked at, so that's exactly the type of people that SDS doesn't like. And it is not surprising, of course, that it is also in the area of SDS libraries and their government that it cuts funds. In Levica, however, we want to be an enlightened society, a society of educated, widely viewed people, so we also propose that funds be raised in this area. The same is true of the other opposition parties, this is some action we are taking together in the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u194	My friend Kordish, I didn't interrupt you, but I'm asking you to refrain from markings like a criminal click. If you want to say anything with this, you can do it in a more cultural way if we are already in culture. So I appeal to you all to adjust the language of this institution. My friend Krivec, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you, Madam President. I do not know if colleagues in Levica have read the Code of Ethics that we have adopted and are acting accordingly. I'm not a criminal, and please, my friend Kordish, apologize and take the word back. I think it's too much, and I've seen you continue your debate on this. Therefore, I propose that you warn him and that, whether he takes the word back and apologizes or take the next step. I think that's too much in the National Assembly. This is a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u196	My colleague Krivec, my colleague Kordiša, and everyone else. My friend Kordish, are you sure you want to proceed on a procedural basis because I hope this will be the case? [[advertising from the hall]] Okay. Then let's move on. Anyone else? Comrade Wildyak Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. Why are we here today, and why are we speaking Slovenian here today? It's about culture. Why the government, led by the SDS, doesn't understand that culture was and will be the one that kept us and made the Slovenians, I don't really know. Why we have such a culture minister as we have, I don't know. I'm ashamed of him. And I apologize in this place to all the culturers in the country – not only to those from Ljubljana, but also to all the others, including those who love – because I am ashamed that the culture that has kept us is taking 8 million. I sincerely wish that these numbers would be different with the new budget prepared by this Minister. But I will vote in favour, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Cigler's colleague, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The amendment has been tabled because the 2020 budget, which is regulated by this balance, is actually a cultural budget. I must say that by taking on a culture that is a major contributor to gross social product, the recognition of Slovenia and also of the lives of many people who help us create it and are globally established that we need to support it, because otherwise we are taking the foundations in this country. I must say that Alma Karlin, Cankar, the late Logar, the late Simoniti, would be turned in the grave by such activities as are now taking place with culture in Slovenia. And whenever this nation was threatened or the people who live here, culture was the first to attack. This way we're putting cultural security down, I'm gonna say it, in this country. And in order to ensure what belongs to this area – today is the day of sport – next year, February 8th, when there will be a holiday of culture, I hope that we will not say, see, this is our attitude towards culture, that we take the essence, we take the means. I therefore hope that this amendment will be supported and that we will recognise the place of culture in Slovenia, including through the finances provided for in this budget. Thank you. That's why I'm going to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thank you very much. My friend Korazi.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u201	Your Honor, thank you for your word. But I will dare borrow one of my former and future associates, and I will only conclude with this: "If we don't read, we will be picked up." And that is the fact that who does not invest in culture but in books and libraries and other things, in fact has no future, let alone bright. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u202	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors to this sub-programme path 3. My friend Buckowitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u203	This amendment refers to the reconstruction and adaptation of Šeškov's home. You all know that from 1st to 3rd October 1943, a meeting was held between the Slovenian people's emissaries. It is an object that has been declared a monument of State importance, but I must say that the state somehow does not care about it the most and is more or less left on the back of the congregation. So I would ask that this amendment be supported, because I will support it myself. However, we have certainly tabled those amendments for those investments that already have a building permit and are also enforceable, so that they are not about populistism, but about real desire and activity, so that certain things are also implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u204	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the media subroutine and audiovisual culture. We first decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Left Party to this sub-programme under number 2. Mr Siter, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you very much. In October 2018, we sat on the Committee on Culture and voted unanimously on all members and members to grant an additional EUR 11 million to the Slovenian film from then until 2022. This is not 11 million luxuries, that is 11 million for a full survival in the cultural sector, which is the most deficient on the entire Slovenian cultural map. To the cultural industry that sends out the most excellent creators abroad. To a cultural sector that we don't know and we don't appreciate enough. We are not just talking about production of new films, we are also talking about taking care of film archives, we are talking about the entire Slovenian film delivery. However, at this meeting of the Committee, we were all Members, on all sides, of all political parties, fully in agreement with the decision to provide the film with additional or urgently needed resources. From then until today, only the Slovenian film is taken. And the biggest withdrawal of resources for survival takes place in this rebalance of the budget – EUR 537 000 from Media and Audiovisual Art. As we have said before, with our amendment, we are just levelling the hole that the government in this area is budgeting the media and audiovisual culture, including the Slovenian film that we all agreed needed additional resources, and we are only adding what it needed to survive. On behalf of the Left Group, I predict that we will, of course, support this amendment. I invite all Members of Parliament to stick to your October 2018 word and finally to the Slovenian film, as it were, no luxury, only what it needs to survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Someone else on behalf of the House of Representatives. Don't you? You're a friend of your own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u207	The government of Janez Janša, who does not like intelligent people at all, certainly is not interested in free thought. They don't want people to shoot, play and watch on their own, so these ladies and gentlemen are taking it to the media and to the film. They don't want people to write and read, so they take literature and libraries. And after all, they don't want people to remember, so they cut the archives. At the beginning of her term of office, the government of Janez Janša showed how it understands the country — as its own private, personal bed, from which it criminally allocates its resources. But what has been illegal so far is becoming legal with this budget rebalancing. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] In Levica, of course, we will support the amendment to return funds to media and audiovisual culture. We want freedom. We want creative societies. And we want such a society, which the authorities, any authority questioning critically, follow and can also be placed on its side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u208	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the Publishing subroutine. We first decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme. Her colleague, Jerca Korča, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. Of course, we have gladly tabled this amendment in the LMŠ Group of Members, and we will be happy to support it. Where else does the government of Janez Janša and his secretary, Mr Simoniti, cut off from the books? And that's sad. And here we are 90, which I believe most of them are well aware that it is important that we have books, that we have publishing, that the nation reads as much as possible. To read on the one hand a book that we agree with, and on the other hand a book that we may not agree with, and in this way we create a width. And yes, indeed, my colleague is right when she stressed that we're talking about the balance, that we're talking about three months. But the Minister of Culture hasn't come to this area yesterday, he's been there for quite some time. And if he is incompetent, which is clear that he is unable to work at the Ministry of Culture, and is not able to prepare matters to the extent that these funds can be used, then it is only a reflection of his incompetence and certainly not that we are populist. And it's not exactly this amendment that detects any kind of populism. It is noted that at the time of the covida the publishing industry fell by 90 percent and that we have 3 months to turn this trend upwards quickly. And once again, we're talking about books, publishing, something that I hope we all have in common. And just because you read the amendments doesn't mean you haven't read the amendments. Because populism, yes, was what the SDS was doing when we were on the coalition side, because they themselves knew they were doing populism, and so they were investing in other laws later, and today they're not even doing the things they said at the time. It all reflects that he was a populism. And we're just returning the money you're taking from your book rebalancing. That's all we do with this amendment. I hope there's support here. We will, of course, support this amendment in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Comrade Boštjan Koražija on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u211	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Yes, see, now we have really come to a point where it could be said that this is actually the point of the break in Slovenian culture. Unfortunately, at the moment the situation in culture is indeed not that it is sad, but it is actually unacceptable. As far as publishing or publishing books are concerned — if we are to be a learner, as well as an advanced society, we will have to add a lot more money or this cultural euro to publishing or publishing. There are many or many possibilities, and I think that in this rebalance you had the perfect opportunity to do so – I will say – even fill in, actually fix the matter. Because I know that you have the Prime Minister of the Government himself, who is very proud to publish his books, and I don't understand why he takes it directly in publishing. I don't understand. I really don't understand. In the end, I'm actually going to say that each society actually has a dream, just like ours. But only that society that invests in knowledge and books will actually be able to realize and also make its dreams come true. And in fact, you know, because I come from a profession where I've worked 20 years in the library, and I know what young people have dreams, in fact, no one wants to leave our country or our country. In fact, we'd all like to stay here. But if we deprive them of knowledge or even books and libraries and publishing, do not expect them to stay here because they will go looking for knowledge and work elsewhere. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Colleague Sukich, on her own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u213	Yeah, on my own. Thank you very much. Look, cutting into publishing is basically predicting war knowledge, spreading horizons, intellectualism, and ultimately developing critical thoughts. And it is likely that simply Minister Simonita is predicting war for all and everyone, which could also bring a measure of criticism. This slowly resembles the famous Fahrenheit 451 dystopia, or anti-utopia. Of course, Minister Simonita will not burn the books yet, but he will make sure that there are just enough of them so that they will no longer have to be burned. Of course I'll support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u214	Thank you very much. My friend Kordesh in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. Given the fact that the SDS is cutting in the field of publishing, I can only assume that for SDS the book is something that can be cut out and sung on a plate. The only thing that's read is the subtitles on TV. We don't share this anti-intellectual position in the Left. We believe that reading culture is important. However, if reading culture is to be developed, it is necessary to develop basic infrastructure. Libraries are one great example of such infrastructure, widely available. But what do you think of libraries that contain books with 50, 100, 200 years of history, and the current book production stands. Of course, such ones also benefit from the half - archival library. Quality literature has a centuries-long, millennium history, as someone who has done comparative literature in the field of study, I can tell you this firsthand. But if we want the area of the book, an area that is alive, stimulating for the growing generation, then we need to strengthen the field of publishing rather than taking money away from it. Otherwise, it may be the very area of the book that is the only area where the SDS mantra on first and second-class consistently endures. As far as book production is concerned, the Prime Minister Janez Janša is definitely somewhere else - if not a third grade letter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u216	Dear colleagues, the explanation of vote should be intended to explain to the vote is to justify some of the reasons and arguments why you will vote in favour or against, rather than counting against one another. My friend Pajovitch, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u217	Mr President, I ask you kindly, without a mask, I understand absolutely nothing, and with a mask, I can't hear you at all. Could you please speak a little more out loud, because I can't keep up?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u218	I agree with you. We'll also consider the possibility of putting speakers on speakerphones a little more. We're voting. Looks like it's gonna be nothing, 'cause the technique just canceled. 15 minutes off. I'll meet you there in 15 minutes by 2 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.28 and resumed at 13.45.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u219	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our adjourned session. We first decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab to this sub-programme. We're voting. It's not working again? Please recheck the voting devices. I'm calling off the vote. It's working now. I ask you to vote again. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 32. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Promotion and Development of Slovenian Language. We first decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, explanation of voice in your own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u220	Thank you. This amendment is not one of the amendments we have tabled in the selection of the Left for the field of culture. I'll tell you what. Why reading culture is so important, we are aware of the second we look at the social networks of SDS Members. They do not know what is in the Slovenian language of commas, big, small beginners do not know, big problems are made by their parent and everyone else tends and so on. And, of course, it is quite fateful for such a person to continue to cut funds in the field of culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u221	We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme of the Award and Social Rights in the field of culture. First, we decide on the amendment of the left-wing groups, LMŠ, SAB and SD to this sub-programme. Mr Siter, an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. Awards and social rights in the field of culture or the survival of cultural workers. If you are a king or if you are flirting with absolutism, then you want to be one leader, you want to have one client, one right, to approve one thought and everything that goes on in this matter needs to be removed. And if anything, then the balance of the budget prepared by the SDS or their coalition is an indication of this mentality. It is necessary to break history because it is wrong, and so it is taken from archives and libraries a good 2 million. Critical activity must be stifled and 2 million can be easily taken. Then the most important action – a critical thinking social opposition must be kept. It should literally be stored. It must be plunged into poverty, into hunger, into non-survival. Therefore, on this item, the government of Janez Janša devotes little resources to the survival of self-employed people in culture and those employed in the non-governmental sector on the cultural side, which, even if we use very household accounting over the thumb, does not meet the actual needs of all the masses of these creators and creators. Now once again, we're talking about the survival of these people. We are talking about the industry that the epidemic has especially maimed in this performance. The first one went out and the last one could start working again normally. We're talking about culture, about the most sophisticated industry in normal conditions. There are scholarships in the game, and it is understandable that the government of Janez Janša, who is particularly critical of all who are critical, who smothers all who are critical, most clearly and decisively struck right after this work, after this sub-programme of the cultural sector, which threatens the very existence of both people and cultural creators, as well as the survival of the entire sector, the existence of the main identification element of the entire nation. The government of Janez Janša has no interest in history, no interest in anything other than government, and is prepared to bring everything, including those who think differently, into poverty and hunger. Therefore, the amendment proposes an additional half million resources at this address to at least enable the survival of a large number of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u223	Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Kordesh in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u224	Thank you. From the present balance of the budget, which takes EUR 8 million to culture and all the amendments we have tabled in the opposition, it is clear what I have already said: The government of Janez Janša does not like smart people. Therefore, not only does he cut off funds to carry out their activities which reflect society, but he does not give them the right amount of funds for the bare survival. In short, the government has decided not only to tolerate culture but also to tolerate culture, literally. In Levica, we strongly disagree with this, you can imagine. We have therefore tabled an amendment to this area of social security for cultural workers, which provides an additional half million euros for the survival of people working in culture who breathe with culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Even Mr. Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. As Primož has already said, cultural workers are among the most overly sophisticated in themselves. In normal times, one quarter lived below the poverty risk threshold, talking about self-employed people in culture. If you look at this year, even now that there is no more basic income for them, ask yourself how these people can survive. Cultural events are practically forbidden, there are no concerts. If you go to the theater, I was last Friday in Drama, which has 400 seats, it has to be the first eight kinds of blanks, each other's outstretched, sitting in the middle of free, on beds of two, three people. And in the end, you have a 400-seat hall where 65 people can sit. How can such institutions or performers survive? The performances are delayed, the seasons are falling apart, but these people don't have any more work or income. And it is completely unheard of that, in the fall, the government that has so-called unlimited resources, because 4.2 billion deficits mean literally unlimited resources, they get a slap in the ass, and that's the cut in the cultural budget. I will, of course, support this amendment, even though it's just a patch on the wound. But there is no way we can get past simply starving people who have lost their jobs and income during this crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u227	We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the Pet Culture sub-programme. We first decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 46. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the subroutine of the Art Route. First of all, we decide on the amendment of the members of the left-wing groups, LMŠ, SAB and SD to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the grant sub-programme for the necessary cultural activities. We first decide on the amendment of SD, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme. Dr. Mr Franz Trček on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u228	There was a lot of talk about culture. I do not share this view as my colleague Miha, even with a few people from the SDS, I was on some business trips, with what master we talked about, say, the Zagreb School of cartoons, comic books and more. But among the basics of political culture in constitutional parliamentary democracy in budgetary debates is that regardless of who is in power, who is in opposition, it is also somehow that you symbolize that we are all equally responsible, because no document of any legal basis for our work shows that we, who are in opposition, are something other than you in the coalition and vice versa, welcome the approval of some amendments. We don't raise the budget, we raise the covid and occasionally your indiscretion, we just move the items. It has been said many times that when you were in the opposition, you were just the SDS people warning about how it works and how it works, and now you are acting the opposite. This is called duplicity in the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary. Times are too bad for two-faced politics. Social Democrats will support this amendment, and even when we are with colleagues from Left and Middle, hopefully, soon in power, we will also support some quality amendment of yours, not to be afraid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u229	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal as a whole. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Luka Mesec Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Of course, we will not support this budget. The budget is undeveloped, hopeless and clearly shows the ideological direction and trends of this government. With practically unlimited resources, we have a record €4.2 billion deficit. That's three and a half times the money, let's say, that's how much there'll be in the budget this year, there'll be no funds for culture, for science, for health and for investment. And now that you're talking about getting out of the crisis and who you're going to save, it's important to look at the items we've been alerting in our debates on the amendments. While virtually the whole culture is standing because of measures against coweed, it is further cut in the cultural budget. There's only one reason, and that's because culturers, cultural workers, are one of the targets of this government. All those who follow you on Twitter know what your opinion is about them. And no one will convince me that this cultural budget is not the same for anything but for an ideological fly. Second, like Micah said, this government obviously doesn't like smart people. I can't find another explanation of how at 4.2 billion deficits it was not possible to find 23 million euros for science. This means that intelligence will continue to run from Slovenia. Not only will she run away because of the vulgarity of this country's leadership, but she will run away simply because she can't get a material existence here. And thirdly, I'm going to talk a little bit more about health care later, and I don't know how between 4.2 billion it wasn't possible to find enough to cover the entire anticipated shortfall of funds that the Health Insurance Office is going to have this year. It is talking about €270 million in high holes, and in these 4.2 billion it was not even possible to find that health care, which is essential for us to survive the epidemic normally, would not run out of money at the end of the year. These are the reasons why we will vote against this budget in Levica and at the same time the reasons why and in what ways this budget reveals the ideology of this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u231	I'm sorry. I'd like to explain one thing. We will first decide on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go. Procedurally. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you are, on behalf of the Group of Members. [[No, no, ……]] Once again, I have just said that we are voting on a specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 31. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that a specific part of the draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 31. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that the Development Programmes Plan has been adopted. We have completed our decision-making on individual parts of the Draft Budget Balance. As no amendment has been adopted in the draft budget rebalancing, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 162 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I note that the proposal for a budget rebalancing is coordinated with respect to revenue and expenditure and in part. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 in its entirety. Mr. Han, explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u232	Thank you very much. It doesn't matter when you say what you think, but the fact is that we are now voting on the balance as a whole. First of all, let me say that I'm aware of why we got to the balance sheet. We came into a situation where GDP fell when the economic race fell abnormally, and of course something had to be done. Whether we agree with all the measures or not, we have shown ourselves in adopting these measures. It is our view that some measures have not achieved the right objective and that is why we also have such a deficit. Today, however, when we accept the balance, I cannot help but feel that some items have been reduced due to – and you are willing to avoid – ideology. The fact that we have reduced funds in culture on all items is unacceptable to me. It is unacceptable that we have reduced our scientific positions in these areas for science in science. It is unacceptable that we went to lower our rates in primary education, in kindergarten, because we cannot build or rebuild some kindergartens. As soon as the cobbler arrived, you blocked the budget in some way. And the third thing I'd like to say is, here I have to be disappointed, yesterday I was here with Jozet Horvato by 10:00 p.m. saying, "Wait till tomorrow, and then you'll be talking if any amendments are accepted." No amendment from the opposition has been adopted. Not even the smallest amendment given by Andrei Reich for EUR 67,000, you didn't want to accept it either. Only Bevk 45 000 euros, not even this amendment has been adopted. To not show the opposition with one amendment, which we are also part of this Slovenia, that we may have something right, but for my understanding, at the very least, politically unhygienic. And I have to say, he doesn't understand. In the budget, which is essentially the basis for this rebalancing, we adopted three amendments last year, even from Jožet Horvat for 20 million for primary schools. So I have to say that not because of this, in general because of the balance that is not right for my terms, the Social Democrats of this balance will not support it. And we will not wait for this excuse: We will talk about the budget in a month, and then you will be able to give your ideas. I'll tell you today, I already know that even one of us, probably, is not going to support our idea. So much for that. And then in the crisis, if we had to cooperate a little bit, to try a little bit for this country, the gesture on your part could also be a little different. I have to say, sometimes I don't understand politics either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u233	On behalf of the Left Group Luka Mesec and later Kociper. Here you go, Luka.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u234	Thank you very much. The story of this rebalancing is this one. An epidemic occurred, the state or government implemented measures to infect it, including quarantine, and generated about 2 billion 200 million minus in the first half of the year. On this basis, she simply pulled over her thumb an estimate of how much money she would need in the second half of the year, and she said, okay, another 2 billion minus. And now we're here talking about billions and we're getting a little off our shoulders. If you remember what projects we spent years ago talking about infrastructure, there could have been several times smaller amounts, severe debates, this time 4 billion and no problem. But what bothers me is this. In the first half of the year, when the government created 2 billion 200 minus to fight the epidemic, data shows that the liquidity reserves of companies increased by 600 million euros. Which means that from the aid that the state has given to businesses to overcome the crisis, the effect has been that after six months companies had more than 600 million euro capital. It is said that there was no problem to finance so much that companies or their owners today are richer by 600 million euros, on the contrary, the Government and Minister of Shirtzelj have concluded that we will go to the second half of the year with the same or similar moves. And so here the simple item of the Epidemic Fund is a billion EUR 600 million, and when we ask ourselves what will happen with this money, we get an explanation on about a third of a page or a smog with our shoulders. At the same time, there will be no EUR 100 million for health care, so that the cash register will not run out of money at the end of the year. There is no €23 million for science. There is no €8 million for culture. There is not even €250,000 for one firehouse that was promised to the Municipality of Postojna. And you are not prepared to adopt any amendments to the opposition, despite the fact that no one is under your fingertips from Europe this year, there are no fiscal rules and you can practically finance the state budget without restrictions. You do this, but you want to do this on your own. And this is what you want to do ideologically, as indicated by decisions in health, science and culture. And that's why we're going to vote against it in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u235	On behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratusek Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u236	Thank you. Some Members, some of the Members of Parliament, have reasoned on individual amendments, sometimes even more of the individual Group of Members, so I thought earlier that I could, on behalf of the SAB Group, because I did not come forward all the time with a special work, I also explain our position, but fine, it is now delayed. I will explain how we will vote in the SAB on the entire document. Of course, we will not support this budget balance in the SAB Group. Each rebalance, including this one, expresses some direction of a government, every time a government. We do not agree with this policy in the SAB Group. Not only is it a rebalancing that breaks all the records, it is a record high, we have a record deficit, we have a record indebtedness of Slovenia. On this occasion, I would recall that representatives of the largest coalition party years ago, when it was also necessary to save the country, in fact, not to say, were throwing themselves on the ground when we were talking about borrowing. I just want to say, for cameras and for history, this is our country's record debt, and it's on record by the government of Janez Janša. For us in the SAB, this is not in itself bad if this commitment is followed by the economic growth and recovery we all want. But even in this balance, and even through this debate, we don't see some real direction, some clear vision of how you're going to do it. We in the SAB want you to succeed, we want you to come out of this coronary crisis stronger and to strengthen our country and our economy again, but for now we do not recognize these exit strategies through the document, so we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u237	The positions of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Igor Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! In the List of Marjan Šarca, we still believe that the budget balance should in fact be only a fine coordination of the budget, which was adopted last November, 2019. We imagine that those who manage the budget or the current government will take them where the funds are not spent, redistribute them to where it plans to need them. However, that is not the case. And the first big problem that we see in the Marjana Sharca list is that once we deduct funds to finance measures to limit the impact of the epidemic, the projections of the rebalancing still show higher expenditure growth, higher growth than in 2019, and higher expenditure growth than planned in the adopted budget. On the other hand, because of the situation we are in, we have lower incomes, which is about 1.6 billion. The second is a high debt which, in our view, does not fully reflect the needs and thus shares with us, or so does the Fiscal Council. As far as the debate on the Committee on Finance is concerned and yesterday at the meeting of the National Assembly – the vast majority of the additions we tabled were in line with all opposition parliamentary groups. They have a substantive basis and have a substantive explanation, and in no case were the solo pir action, as we have seen in the discussions of some coalition Members. However, as has already been said, none of these amendments have been adopted. The balance is lowering military funds, but on the other hand, the basis for the purchase of weapons is 780 million. We believe that the military certainly needs funds, but at the same time we do not believe that these investments need to be made now that there is significantly more money needed for other measures. The proposal for a rebalancing, which reduces resources for science and research, education, scholarships, less resources for active employment policy programmes, reduces resources for institutions that perform an extremely important supervisory function, reduces resources for culture and, in our opinion, unexplained and excessively indebted, cannot be supported in the List of Marjan Šarc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u239	An explanation for the vote for the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be given by Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Before I explain my voice, allow me to tell my respectable colleague Han the following. Of course, I believe it was a late hour yesterday, colleague Han, you did not understand me very well, I was talking about the changes in budget 2021. I also said I can't speak for the entire coalition. But I wasn't talking about a rebalancing that's something else, a rebalancing this year, when we're only three months away by the end of the year. Parliamentary Group New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support this budget balance for this year. We note that, according to the other Member States of the European Union, the government has responded well to the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. Among other things, it is an excellent indicator of the decline in economic activity, where we can say that we are above average good within the EU. I haven't heard from any of the coalition members on the committee, not yesterday, not today, to trouble Dr. Andre Bertoncl's budget. No, because we're fair because he had a good budget planned for this year, but of course he didn't know he was coming and that the epidemic would come and hit so horribly. That's what we talked about days ago. Ladies and gentlemen, some of you may have missed voting for basic monthly income for cultural workers as well. We didn't miss it and they got it in three months, March, April, May, a thousand 750 euros. And it's right that they won, and that's why we voted in favour. As for culture, I apologize to my colleague, the President of the Committee on Finance, for exercising his copyright. His conclusion is this: “The area of culture, ladies and gentlemen, we receive 16 million more with this balance than we did last year.” 16 million more. The amendments you've written are perfectly legitimate. I know it takes a lot of effort here. I've written a lot of them. However, it is necessary to be aware of the time components whether it is possible to draw 10 million by the end of the year. And one more thing, every budget subroutine has its own programme, annual programme, work programme, like the Film Fund or anyone. And we checked and the government ensures that there is enough money on all these budget sub-programmes to fund them to fund these programmes. And then it doesn't make sense that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u241	The explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will be mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u242	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will of course support the proposal for a rebalancing. The proposal for a rebalancing came to the National Assembly mainly because of all the known covid-19 epidemic. The balance of the budget for 2020 is to align revenue and expenditure with the real situation. We are now recording significantly lower revenues due to covid-19 and significantly higher expenditure than originally planned due to measures taken by the government of Janez Janša together with the National Assembly and the coalition to combat the covid-19 epidemic. The measures taken are successful. The evidence that the measures have been successful and effective is a significantly lower drop in gross domestic product in Slovenia than other European Union countries. I cannot agree that the opposition did not take part in this rebalancing, because most of the proposals proposed by the opposition to fight covid-19 and to help people and the economy were taken into account by the government of Janez Janša and the coalition in the measures of CAP1, CAP2, CAP3 and PKP4. And these measures are also the fruit of the rebalancing, so I cannot agree that the opposition did not take part in this or that it was not taken into account. It has been and I thank you for all the proposals that have been made within the measures. This co-crisis, which hit Slovenia, is significantly different from the previous crises. It should be stressed that in previous crises we have been solving financial systems, and here the government has taken care of people, jobs and the economy. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this budget is socially oriented. We believe that the winners of this budget rebalancing are, above all, the areas most vulnerable: economy, social and health. Health care receives more than €200 million. The key objective of all these measures is to ensure a functioning economy, to ensure a stable health system and that it is a springboard when preparing a budget change for 2021.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u243	An explanation for the vote for the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u244	Nice greetings to all present! We don't actually have anything to add to the balance of the budget that we have before us, because we've heard all the numbers up and down, plus and minus. We are talking about the budget rebalancing, the budget that was adopted last year, which was also supported by the Slovenian National Party, so much in knowledge, because one of you forgets this. This 2020 budget has been supported by the Slovenian National Party. This year we are faced with extraordinary circumstances that have led to this rebalancing. Basically, when Mr Polnar said yesterday, nature was simply stronger than economics. That was his point yesterday. As has already been said, in the Slovenian National Party we will support the budget rebalancing, although we are small, because we are aware that there is poison in small bottles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u245	Just a minute. I see there's a lot of desire to explain our voices, so we're just gonna sign up. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We were able to hear from the President of the Government and from the Minister of Finance yesterday that this government, for the first time in history, can explain each euro where it is going. All true, but this, ladies and gentlemen, that the budget lines and individual accounts are harmonised and compatible does not mean that you know and that you will know what money will be spent on. There is no detailed projection of the spending of this money on the budget item or on the sub-programme from which measures are financed to mitigate the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic, and this is, of course, the lack of transparency that we have been alerting the opposition Members all the time and to which even the Fiscal Council warns. The Tuist Fiscal Council, to which this government has so fondly referred at the time of the Sharča government, has pointed out the need for greater transparency, especially in the case of budget expenditure towards the end of the year, which is not related to the consequences of co-versus. Thus, this rebalancing is also a matter of increasing some other assets that covidcrisis does not condition. That is why this balance is not really just a covid-19 epidemic product, it has to be said out loud. In the eyes, for example, there will be an increase in expenditure on the programme to correct past injustices, which you increase by 200%. So not only is this rebalancing untransparent, it's also ideological. And it is true that during these times a crisis co-defendant can break this golden fiscal rule, it has owed practically all of Europe, but this debt, which is by the way extremely high, should only be for maintaining the state in condition and the population in economic power. So today I will not support this untransparent, ideological and vague, incomplete balance because we owe [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u248	Thank you very much, President. Yes, dear colleagues, look, we're not in a good situation anyway. And, the well-respected coalition, again against all the amendments, and here clearly shows your duality and rejection of dialogue and any proposals you do not accept from the opposition. And that's just one of those things why this government doesn't trust itself. And once again, in the bad half of the year, this government created a 4.6 billion hole and an additional 6 billion debt, and then the minister slips off his shoulder. Now we remember what this same minister was doing when we talked about the budget of the government of Marjan Sarca, which had 400 million surpluses. Now at 4.6 billion we say, oh, it will. Many debts and this hole in the budget are warned by all of you, including the Fiscal Council. What happens later when public debt falls, no one can answer. The government takes, where necessary, science and research, the development of digitisation, active employment policy and many other positions, where we can invest the most money today to start the economy and increase the flow into the budget, which would also enable the well-being of all citizens and citizens. And that's where you fall on the line. And also this poorly explained billion co-reserves shows this poor transparency. Look at the acquisitions of protective equipment and you'll see where we are. We don't know what's gonna happen next year, we don't know what's gonna happen later, and I'm afraid we're coming to where we used to be when Janez Janša led the government in 2008. And now this government is run by Janez Janša, and I'm afraid it'll take us 10 years to get to the green branch again. Since the reality is going to hurt us all, not just you, dear colleagues and colleagues, I cannot support it and I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u250	Thank you very much. I would like to strongly share the optimism of what optimism, the carelessness of both the President of the Government and the Finance Minister when the budget rebalancing was presented yesterday. With more than 4 billion deficits and more than 7 billion planned borrowings, they actually took pictures of the situation in the country as if they were running and flowing between and milk. More realism, more sobriety would be expected, Minister, to simply tell people that it will be difficult, and that if in 2020 we shared the money to end this once. The Prime Minister of the Government will also go into history by saying that the government can explain for the first time in history any euro that will be saved from this budget. Of course, this is not going to go any further, but, of course, it will be possible to talk about it after the Court of Auditors has spoken and criminal investigations are ongoing. And history will of course be that the coalition has completely ignored the opposition in the National Assembly and that, of course, no single amendment was worthy of their attention. I'll take it sportingly, but people see it, and people will judge it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u252	Thank you. First of all, the covid-19 epidemic is not an excuse for indiscretion. Secondly, the problem of this government is best expressed by the wording of both the Prime Minister's President and the Prime Minister's torn envelope, all the way to the head of the SMC Group. Janša says he is responsible for the voters, Hojs says in an interview with the Reporter that he is addressing a quarter of the people, if he was a majority electoral system, would be 50%, and Mrs Slug says you have made a 400,000-vote commitment in the coalition. You forget that the government is over 2 million inhabitants [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u253	Explanation of vote [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u254	I'm explaining to my colleague. Don't interrupt me once. 70% of Slovenia's debt is in the hands of foreigners. We talked about this with one of the candidates for a position at Banka Slovenije. Are we aware of what this means? And there's another thing that you really like to talk about, and what you're suffocating in the opposition now, because it's only three months, and it's up there. Even we who have very good income in families before the happy Decembers are working on a rebalance and also on budget amendments. Is that right? And you've made Santa in a good billion, and you'll get a good one there. That is also why I will vote against this inconceivable nonsense that you are taking. However, if you reach out to me, the experienced Member of the former 90 has completely abused the presentation of the parliamentary group, he has debated with everyone and you have not opened your mouth. First, set up the mirror for yourself. The foundation of every policy. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u255	Colleagues, please, let's stick to the explanation of the voice. Please. Next up is Natasha Sukic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will strongly vote against the budget's rebalancing for a number of reasons. First of all, this rebalancing is actually extremely impractical. Intransparency is at least €1.6 billion, which are just in mind parked under the covid's cover and we do not know what that means, at least not yet. And by the end of the year, that's three months. Secondly, this balance is highly underdeveloped. For he cut off the means of science, which was already nourished. We know that Slovenia devotes 0.6% of GDP to fighting, which is extremely deep below the average of the European Union, which devotes 1.4% of GDP to science in good times. And now you're cutting it. Third time. This rebalancing is actually highly ideological and let's not blind ourselves, it's a cultural struggle. It's expressed anti-intellectualism, it's an attempt to suppress potential critical thoughts. When you put a war on the press, it's called a book, and that's what you said everything about it. And don't tell me whoever's already here explains that in fact culture gets more that the epidemic didn't make it real. Books, excuse me, can be quarantined. Thoughts can develop in quarantine. You can be locked up at home and create all this. So it's just a bluff. Fourth time. But how low the level of political dialogue is, political culture has proved to be, once again, that you were unable to confirm, accept even the slightest amendment of the opposition. And that says everything about you, actually. Of course I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u257	Thank you. Andre Zabret has the word. [[Log out]] Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u258	Today, before this decision, neither the Government nor the Minister, the National Assembly is the one to decide today, and the National Assembly is the one to take responsibility for this budget rebalancing today. It is true that the government has prepared it, and the National Assembly will obviously confirm it very uncritically. In fact, the financial policy of some political option is to materialise its actual orientations and it is clear to us where this government, this coalition wants – at some other time, a time of new normality, where rare individuals or only one will decide what is right and what is wrong. Lack of credibility, credibility, justification, no vision or explanation not only for this balance, but for what follows. And this rebalancing is a symbol of the future design and implementation of your policies. What I can generally draw below this balance line — less for everyone — is more to finance the epidemic. What is in this financing of the epidemic, however, no one in this room was able to explain satisfactorily or at least minimally. And that's the problem. And what is the result, the conclusion? You've rejected everything. That means you're the smartest and you'll take full responsibility in the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u259	Thank you very much. I'm going through the list. Applications are under way. Micah Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u260	Thank you for your word, chairman. This budget balance shows us a future we don't want in Levica. I believe that a large majority of citizens do not want it as well. This is the future where as mushrooms through the rain through environmental standards in Slovenia grow some subcontractors who work with low added value of a plastic casting that stamps metal pieces, cardboard packagings for some German companies. These subcontractors employ people on minimum wages, with low education, probably even more likely to suffer from forced labour and are owned by Hungarian oligarchs. This is a future without investment in science and development. This is the future that takes culture to the side of social priorities. This is the future that we are opposed to and opposed to our alternative in Levica. Priority support to public health for all, priority support to broad education and development breakthroughs, but not as can be seen in this budget, a 100 million-million manna only for the current costs of public health, while at the same time providing additional resources to strengthen private health. Or, in other words, the privatisation of the public health system is also hidden in this budget rebalancing. At the same time, the rebalancing recognises a four billion budget deficit, with a covid in the Ministry of Finance with a capital of € 1.6 billion, which is there without any explanation. What does this mean in the consistently corrupt governments of John Janša, we can imagine? This is a balance that gambles and gambles on the Slovenian future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u261	Thank you. The word is Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u262	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I wouldn't talk about corrupt governments. Apparently, someone thinks for themselves all the time, and that's why they use it. As for the budget's rebalancing, I will support it, although with a heavy heart this rebalancing is improving the practical budget that you have prepared, adopted and in some ways corrects only liquidity within the budget. That is to say those things that will not be realized, which will be transferred to the next budget in 2021, but those things that can be moved by the end of the year after this delay because of the covida, put into effect again. So I'm surprised you're talking about this balance being inadequate, indeveloped and so on, if you've practically produced it. We know that the balance sheet is the alignment of individual items within the budget, and nothing else. When we discuss the budget in 2021, these criticisms will, of course, make sense if the budget is not adequate. At this point, you are shooting yourself in the knee because you are criticising your budget that you prepared last year. And nothing else. So I don't have a problem with that. However, all the things falling into this budget are at the expense of a crisis that has affected not only Slovenia, but the whole world, particularly within the European Union. On this basis too are these excesses, which we have talked about a great deal. The basics of the budget are your work and therefore you shoot yourself in your own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u263	Thank you. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u264	Please inform Mr Daniel Krivec that Levica has not supported this budget and has not prepared it. The budget was exactly the point where the Left and the Coalition of Marjan Šarca split up slightly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u265	Comrade Kordish, this is not a procedural proposal. [[adverts from benches]] Procedural? [[Yeah.]] Colleague Sukich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u266	You missed me because I raised my hand a long time ago. Please inform your colleague Krivec not to generalise or generalise, because we have not actually supported this budget in Levica, many reasons have been similar to the criticisms you have heard today. And please note that it is not so easy to deceive the public because it is a deception to the public. Because it's a misappropriation to the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u267	Colleague Sukič, our Rules of Procedure do not provide for intervention in the way you describe it, that I warn the Member of Parliament. Please do not abuse this procedural proposal. My colleague Siter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u268	Thank you very much. That this budget cut is ideological, we have already stressed today. I'll tell you why I can't support him – because he's a fairy tale. I can't support him because he's as simple as they say in Zasavje, ausglaise. On the wrong values, on the wrong priorities, he got out of the way. While we have 280 thousand hungry people in Slovenia waiting for people to bed in nursing homes, when health care is in ruins, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is going to do so, listen: “The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has accepted information on the planned construction of Slovenian Christmas tree in the St. Peter Square in the Vatican at the end of 2020. 40,000 euros is a heavy cost of cutting and 60,000 euros of decorations and events." 40,000, if I am not mistaken, is the heavy amendment there, Comrade Reich and 60, Comrade Bevek. But no! Christmas tree in the Vatican is more important. Slovenian Christmas tree, which is foreseen in this budget rebalancing, because I quote the Government »The Republic of Slovenia and the holy seat have similar views on a number of global issues. Throughout the period we are connected by friendly relations and regular and constructive dialogue, which is also highlighted in the strategy of Slovenian foreign policy." Views, common views on a range of global issues, the whole-time integration of friendly relations and so forth at the price of 280 thousand hungry people, the culture of conservation, the hidden infrastructure, the endless kind of homes for older and medical treatments. Here, esteemed colleagues and colleagues of the government of Janez Janša are your priorities, in the Christmas tree of St. Peter's Square. Praise Jesus.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u269	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members present, 49 votes against 31. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda – Consideration of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021, urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 23. 9. 2020, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB, SD, LMŠ and Levica groups to Article 5(1). If this amendment is adopted, this amendment of the SAB and SD groups of Members and the amendment of the Left and LMŠ groups to the same Article under numbers 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. Explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Comrade Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u270	Thank you. I will explain our amendment, which, if adopted, becomes immaterial. Our amendment to Article 5 is quite simple. We propose that the health allowance, as far as it runs out of money in 2020, be fully funded from the budget. The figures are such; the government says that more money is spent on health care because at the Ministry of Health there is 140 million more with a balance, but in fact half is missing from the goal. In fact, the health insurance agency foresees that the drop will significantly exceed 140 million and will be 270 million this year. He needs significantly more money than he's in the budget. The real situation on the ground is this: yesterday, on Facebook and other social networks, Kranjčanka’s letter was rounded up and the appendix was infused and in Slovenia in 2020, she waited nine days for an appropriate diagnosis, therapy and surgery, with a spilled appendix. The appendicitis, which in modern medicine does not mean any particular complications, the surgery is routine and takes half an hour, it had to walk for nine days, in the middle of several covidtests, was nine days in pain, vomiting, fainting, could die of such a banal thing as appendicitis. And it's just one cartoon, one picture of the health situation or the health situation, which is clearly due to co-vid and inadequate government action in chaos. The question is how many cancer patients are not diagnosed in time. Some numbers say that maybe even 30 percent. How many chronic patients do not experience therapy? You will not find data on their diseases and deaths among those numbers that measure covid patients, but they are also victims of this crisis. They are victims of the health crisis, which is due to the failure of the government. We don't have a special covidambulant, and the entire health department is losing focus and making mistakes like this Kranjčan woman, who waited nine days with a spilled appendix to operate. Instead of performing a routine surgery, it says to remove this appendix, it is now on some four, five antibiotics and a severed whole abdomen. In order to prevent this, I will not say that the money will save everything, but the budget guard, that health care can be funded as it should be this year, but it is absolutely necessary that we calm down the situation or as this Kranjčanka, who spoke in the end with the gynecologist, said, you know, like you, should make a revolution. I will, of course, support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? [[Yeah.]] My colleague Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u272	Yes, what I wanted to say before is that, of course, every opposition puts several amendments on every single document, a variety of amendments, after all, another road comes in turn, and it is now quite clear to me that most cannot be supported, but the fact that this time the opposition is relatively quick to unify. In fact, we all thought exactly the same, but what are the main things that need to be settled? And among these – four of them, we listed, we have also presented – the highest value of the amendment that we are talking about right now is the EUR 50 million earmarked for the regulation of waiting lines. This is also the biggest amendment after the sum of money and according to the SAB, where we have prepared this amendment, is also very important. True, there is a lot of money in this balance for health care, and the President of the Government himself continues to stress that health is his priority, how much it deals with it and so on. But as has already been said and as has been pointed out many times in recent days, we cannot be now, all citizens and the whole country, hostage to the covid-19 crisis. People who wait for treatment with specialists are terminally ill and cannot wait. People who wait for treatment, even after all in the first degree, can be terminally ill, and cannot wait for the coven to pass and everything will be back to normal. People waiting for surgery, for heavy surgery, for a long time can't give their disease to hold him and wait for the covidcrisis to pass. We are all parties to the opposition's opinion that it should be explicitly stated that at least EUR 50 million is for the reduction of waiting species alone and explicitly. Such an explicit determination, where this money is going, would really lead to, hopefully, that money would really be spent for that purpose, but not for everyone else, I believe, quite the necessary expenditure. In addition, we have also written down the opposition parties, it is probably clear that the next agenda of this government is to spend this money by first using all the reserves in the public sector, in public health, in the public health network and so on, to the end, to the private. I'm here to tell you the case of a surgeon on Ptuj who has to stop surgery in September because his hospital doesn't get the money. Not because he doesn't have time, not because there are no nurses, not because the hospital is busy or because it's crowded, but because this country, our country does not provide him with funds from September to December, and this is a disaster that we should be saving all the time, and we need to save it, whether the covid is here or not. We'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u273	Thank you very much. In his own name, Comrade Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u274	Thank you for your word. For health care, the government of Janez Janša has a very clear agenda. This agenda is privatisation. They were probably counting on the Cronavirus epidemic to be the Slovenian health care, if not the principle, at least kill. This did not happen because Slovenian health care is largely public because most people in this country behave in a responsible manner, the health system has survived this crisis. This is why the government decided to proactively intervene in the health field without preparing it for the second wave of the Coronavirus epidemic, where. It has reached into the current budget by leaving a 100 million-dollar gap to finance current health expenditure, which is mainly public health expenditure on the one hand, and, on the other hand, spending a few ten additional millions, according to the waiting period, which goes into private pockets. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first dirty, covert step towards further privatisation of health care. The result is that now our infections are growing rapidly, and health care is not much better prepared for the epidemic than it was. The authorities could seize some tourist facilities, transform them into additional outpatients, for example, but they didn't. Another consequence is that there has been a failure of the regular programme. People who have other diseases like this covid-19 didn't come in, waited longer, and their lives were threatened. In order to avoid this, we propose an amendment in Levica: both budgetary financing for healthcare, because the health of citizens and citizens must not be a hostage of such or different crisis of the system, the crisis of capitalism, as well as additional resources for services that go directly to public health.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u275	The word has Željko Cigler, an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I will absolutely support the use of additional funds to reduce waiting types. However, both the 42 million already made available for this purpose, as well as the new 50 proposed, should be used as a priority to first register public health homes, only then all the other operators. And the Government and the Ministry of Health are obliged to provide conditions for doctors to be interested, as well as other health personnel, in shortening waiting lines in public health institutions. These, as my colleague Luke said earlier, are practically closed to health services. Public health institutions are thus undervalued because they lack equipment, personnel, spaces, simply do not work, doctors cannot come to them. And from these public health homes last year, there were 8,000 70 working days of doctors working in public health who were employed in private care. And the paradox is that currently health services in Slovenia, those critical, urgent, are provided by private. There's obviously something wrong with this system. The public health system is blocked here. This needs to be corrected because public health institutions work for us, private individuals mostly for profit. Because, look, different health-care programs are implemented exclusively and only by public health institutions. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u277	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SAB and SD to Article 5 under Article 2. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the left-wing groups and the LMŠ to the same Article under number 3 shall become irrelevant. Mr Reich, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u278	On behalf of the Group of Members. In the SAB Group, we, together with the partners of the Social Democrats, have proposed an amendment to the Budget Implementation Act to devote an additional €1.7 million to the security and health of pensioners, in order to purchase protective masks. We have proposed that every pensioner be given three free laundry masks by the end of the year. This measure has been evaluated with €1.7 million. This is a measure that would allow pensioners to have access to a doctor, to a hospital, to go to a store so that they can actually visit public space. Remember, last week the government took additional restrictive measures due to the widespread epidemic. That is why in the SAB we believe that this measure is all the more necessary and useful. If a State prescribes something to be compulsory and this measure has financial implications, then the country to which these measures relate must make these matters possible. This is a vulnerable population; it is a population that can expect a harder exit if it becomes infected with covid virus. This is a measure that allows some pensioners to be able to live in this epidemic and in these constraints, which the state somehow introduces between them, as long as they live normally. In the SAB Group, we therefore ask that this amendment of ours be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u279	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the Left and LMŠ groups to Article 5 under Article 3. My colleague Luke Moon, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u280	Thank you. This is the amendment I spoke about earlier, namely that in the event of a health cash shortage, this is financed from the budget. That's no specialty. We already have such arrangements in Slovenia for the pension register. If the pension money runs out of money, the money goes out of the budget. In 2020, €1.2 billion of central budget pension funding is foreseen. There is no reason for us not to introduce this to the medical treasury, especially the state in which it was found. This year, there will be less income from compulsory insurance and, on the other hand, more expenditure due to the emergency situation with covid-19. As we have said in the debates, health care is currently practically unavailable for a good part of the population. The question is what will happen with chronic diseases, how will cancer patients be diagnosed, what will this mean in the future, not in a month or two, but how will this be reflected in the coming years. Therefore, it is only reasonable to allow health care to be fully funded from the budget and to make the necessary investments in health care in order to finally prepare it after seven months to face co-crisis and, ultimately, that people will no longer have to wait for diagnosis after several months. This not only complicates their health positions, it destroys their lives. After all, when we talk about the budget, it also irritates the treatment. So every euro we put in health is the euro in our health, our safety and our future. Therefore, we propose to introduce for 2020, due to the emergency situation, that health care be financed from the budget, as it has been for years, for the pension fund. That's the point of this amendment. Of course we'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u281	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are done with the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u282	Thank you very much. The law on the implementation of the budget is, in fact, a technical law. More or less it is clear that if you have not supported the Draft Balance in the budget, you cannot actually support the Law on the Implementation of Budgets or Decrees, in short, anything that is related to the budget. However, it is also necessary to say certain nonsense and what has actually happened in the last two days and what is more crucial to me, and especially to our Group of Members. In his address to the question, the President of the Government made it clear and gave a green light that the process of decommissioning of Slovenian public health, the health system they have in America, supported by Trump, could be initiated and we could, in the case of a covid, see what that really means. The privatisation and the march on everything began. Everything else was actually owned by people. Accessibility and division into rich and poor will, of course, be very drastic in the coming years. But what's more horrifying is that, in fact, not even the 50 million that it's meant to be, it's a circular circus to shorten the waiting lines, it doesn't mean that it's what the predecessors have already said in their explanations. But it's something else. The point is that someone systematically and purposefully works the system even worse and even more plunges it into a situation of problems, so that it will later be easier to justify why a cross over such a system should be made. Because if you don't have enough money on one side, and the system sucks on the other side, then you have to do the perfect cleaning. And that is exactly what John Janša and all his subjects are doing, who are blindly following his purpose. In short, he'll do exactly what he didn't do in the first and second governments, and he won't make any more mistakes. Rine with a bulldozer across people for the price of her second republic. And this is also seen in this law on the implementation of the budget. The law itself has clearly been known from past years that it must never be reflected in the addition of additional funds by amendments. However, that is exactly what the government is doing – 50 million in ZIPRS, the rest of the money in the budget, which means that we will also see smaller indices in the long term in the budget for 2021 and 2022, virtually growth in health, but always too little money. These are the reasons why we cannot support such ZIPRS in the Group of Members without supporting it, because of the fact that this also means a patch or a landing for the destruction of the public health system, which, of course, some are sworn to.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u283	The word is Luke the Moon. Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u284	Thank you. By rejecting our amendment for budgetary financing of health care in the emergency situation of the covid-19 epidemic, you have also confirmed my suspicion that your objective is indeed to privatise health. In fact, the hole announced by the Department of Health Insurance by the end of the year is clear and publicly known, 270 million. You will cover half of this hole, 140 million from the budget. Which means you're gonna say yes, because we gave more to health care, but it didn't work. Of course it didn't work because you gave half too little. And because you've given half too little, the state that we have now, the real health is out of reach, the waiting types are getting longer, the operations are delayed, the diagnosis is gone, it's exacerbated. And this will serve as an excuse for you to have to privatize health care, to eliminate the license to open a private ambulance and to get a double system as they know in another country, on the one hand, rich private health care for those who can afford it, where better wages will also be available and doctors will therefore prefer to run to these service clinics, and on the other hand we will have an exhausted public health service where waiting types will be long and all those poor people who will not be able to afford it will be condemned. If anyone is interested in what such a system looks like, to contact a public dentist in the Republic of Slovenia, he will see how long he will wait and what will be the service after this area has been privatised. As this intention has not been removed in ZIPRS, we will, of course, vote against it in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u285	Thank you. We're voting. There are 81 members present, 48 votes against 33. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 20th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
