ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting the 32nd extraordinary session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Victory by Jelinčič Plmeniti, Nada Brinovšek, Rudi Medved, Andreja Zabret, Edvard Paulič, Brane Golubović, Ferenc Horvath by 17:00, Franz Kramar, mag. Branislav Rajić, mag. Marko Koprivc, mag. Diane jedan, just bevk, mag. Bojana Mursich. I invited representatives of the State Election Commission, candidates and candidates for Members and Members to the 4th item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. Before we move on to the agenda, I would like to ask you to present, as part of the preventive measures to prevent the spread of the new Coronavirus, the applicants and the Members and Members of the supplementary explanations of matters, the presentation of the reports of the home working bodies and the views of the sent groups from their seats and not from behind the speaker as usual. I also ask that everyone who discusses sit down during the debate. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 32nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposals for extending the agenda. Following an agreement at the College of the President of the National Assembly on 18. 3. 2020 I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 32nd meeting be extended by 3A, this is the urgent procedure of the draft law on public financial intervention. You received your proposal for enlargement on Wednesday 18 March 2020. He wants a word from a government representative as a motion for a case? No, no, no. Do representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There were 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against, none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. Following an agreement at the College of the President of the National Assembly on 18. 3. 2020 I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 32nd extraordinary meeting should be extended by 3B, this being the urgency of the proposed law on the intervention measure to postpone the payment of the obligations of borrowers. You received your proposal for enlargement on Wednesday 18 March 2020. Would you like a word from the government? I guess not. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Not at all. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We therefore vote on the agenda as a whole. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[against no one.]] I take it the agenda of the 32nd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving to four. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the Right to Substitute for Members of the National Assembly appointed as Ministers and the Proposals for Decisions on the Right to take over the term of office of Members instead of Members who have terminated their term of office. The decision of the State Election Commission was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, as its parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving to a vote on individual proposals for conclusions. First of all, we vote on the proposal for a decision contained in the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission number 1 on the confirmation of the mandates of Members acting as Members instead of Members appointed as Ministers. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are also voting on the proposal for a decision in the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission number 2 on the confirmation of the terms of office of Members for the remainder of the term of office. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite fellow Members and colleagues to join us and take their seats, and I wish them to do their work successfully in the parliamentary sessions. Congratulations! Welcome! / applause/ We are moving on to a hearing on the conclusion of the retirement of Ambassador Jan Mahnic for his appointment as State Secretary in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister. The PSC proposes to take note of the following decision: The National Assembly notes that Member Jean Mahnic has been appointed Secretary of State in the cabinet of the President of the Government, so it has not been able to act as a member of the National Assembly since today as long as he serves as Secretary of State. The National Election Commission has already informed the National Assembly which candidate will be replaced by that Member in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of this notification, the Mandate-Making Commission will draw up a report and propose to the assembly the approval of the mandate of the Member who will act in place of the Member of Parliament, Mr Mahnič. The National Assembly notes that the following functions in the working bodies cease to exist to Ambassador Jean Mahnič: President and Member of the Commission of Inquiry on the finding of abuses in the case of Franc Kangler and Others, Vice-President of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, Deputy Member of the Commission of Inquiry on the determination of alleged money laundering in NKBM, d.d., alleged illegal financing of the SDS political party and alleged illegal financing of the SDS electoral campaign for the early election of Members to the National Assembly 2018. I thank my former fellow Member for his work and wish him much success in his further work. I hereby end this point, which will be discussed below today in the context of the votes. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, that's another defense proposal for the Law on the Intervention of Work Reimbursement Reimbursement of Salary. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Mateja Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! Today, a complementary proposal for an intervention law on wages and contributions is under consideration. The law was prepared with a view to preserving jobs due to the labour market situation which are and will arise as a result of the outbreak of covid-19 virus. In working relations, we want to keep as many people as possible, preserve their rights and thus reduce the pressure on open unemployment. On the other hand, to facilitate the position of employers, as the effects of the virus are already reflected in the entire Slovenian economy, especially in the sectors of tourism, catering, trade and processing activities where there is a risk of reducing the needs of workers. The law has been supplemented in the legislative process and also contains a measure to postpone the payment of contributions to self-employed persons. In the part of the intervention measures, remuneration shall be introduced by the law of the institution linked to State intervention, namely the Institute for Partial Reimbursement of Remuneration of Salaries in the event of temporary waiting for work and the reimbursement of the full remuneration in the case of individual quarantines. Under the intervention law, the State will assist employers in two cases. The first case is where the employer will not be able to provide work at the same time to at least 30% of the employees and will therefore refer them to a temporary waiting period. During this period, workers will be entitled to a salary refund of 80 % of the remuneration base. Another case where a worker is unable to perform his work because of individual quarantine by decision of the Minister of Health. In this case, too, it will be eligible for a refund of 80 % of the basic remuneration. The burden of part-time remuneration is borne by employers and the remaining 40% by the State. The burden of compensation for a certain period of quarantine shall be borne by the Republic of Slovenia in its entirety. The period of partial receipt of the refund for the purpose of temporary waiting for work will be up to three months or for a period of specified quarantine. The bill lays down clear conditions that employers will have to comply with if they wish to enforce remuneration. The right to compensation will be exercised by the employer by means of an electronic or written application submitted by the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. Among the key is the employer's written commitment to keep the workers' jobs on temporary hold for work for at least six months after the beginning of temporary waiting for work. In addition, the employer will have to provide a description of the business situation and, on the basis of this entry, the employer will have to demonstrate that, for business reasons, it is temporarily unable to provide work at the same time to at least 30% of the employees in the employer and has decided to send workers on temporary leave. Before taking a decision to send workers on temporary waiting for work, the employer will have to include representatives of workers or contact workers directly. I also have to point out that partial remuneration will not be due to the employer who is the taxpayer, the non-payer of wages and social security contributions, the violator of labour law or over which insolvency proceedings have been instituted. The rules are clear, and we'll keep an eye on that. However, the complementary bill also includes a solution relating to self-employed persons. In recent days, we have received many proposals and warnings on the need to take measures to reduce the negative consequences for self-employed people as well. We are aware that the economic situation created by the outbreak of coronavirus in addition to employers and employees is also felt by self-employed persons who have difficulty paying social contributions, including contributions to compulsory pension and disability insurance, for compulsory parental insurance [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u3	Your time is up. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. I give the floor to President Vojk Starović for the presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, everyone! At its 37th emergency meeting, the Labour Committee, the Family, Social Affairs Committee considered the draft Law on the Intervention Action for Partial Reimbursement of Remuneration of Wages submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, with a proposal for a hearing following an urgent procedure, which was also endorsed by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The Committee also received a number of comments and suggestions from the professional and interested public, including specific proposals for amendments to the Committee, on the proposal for legislation and the opinion of the Legal Service. Some of the proposals were summarised in the proposals for amendments to the coalition group committee, as well as in the proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Left Party. During the course of business, the amendments were tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. Representatives of the proposer and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the work of the Committee. The representative presented the content of the intervention law and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that some issues remained open, including what was considered to be remuneration, the quarantine at the time of the introduction of the bill had not yet been determined and some solutions had a different degree of definition, which affected their clarity and clarity. In the debate, the members and members of the committee supported the Government's actions, as they are aware that we must act immediately. Rapid and coordinated action is necessary and the opposition has also stressed its support for the proposed legislative proposals. The consequences of the coronavirus are also strongly reflected in the economic activities of Slovenia, in particular in the sectors of tourism, catering, trade and processing activities, in which the need for workers will be reduced at the same time, and further measures must be taken to facilitate the situation of the economy and at the same time protect the situation of employees. It was pointed out that it was necessary to protect workers, not just capital, but especially concern for self-employed people and the problem of students and student homes. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Affairs stressed that this is one of the three intervention laws, as there is a need to ensure that workplaces do not suffer too much damage and that certain consequences will nevertheless occur. Other measures and solutions are also being prepared to compensate companies for their loss of income, as well as measures to start the economy after the health crisis. In view of the many proposals made by the various stakeholders still to be examined and possibly included in the proposal for a law, the Committee, by adopting the amendments, has left some articles open, which will be supplemented, if necessary, by an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The proposals were transmitted by various institutions and organisations in very different situations, as regards financing, market operations and so on. It is therefore necessary to verify what falls within the content of the proposed law and within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. The Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups and its amendments and also adopted all the articles. A complementary bill has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Desus Group, for which Yuri Leprechaun.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Representative of the Government! The test that awaits us in the next month or two, perhaps even a little longer, is difficult for all of us, our families, the local environment, and just for all social areas. In all the failings of our personal and social life, the last two weeks from day to day raise the question of how to maintain and maintain all of this in as stable a state as possible. It is a great challenge that we must not underestimate. This is a challenge with capital letters to be addressed through the best possible organisational methods and appropriate financial captures. Many countries and financial organisations are experiencing a serious decline in economic dynamics, economic growth forecasts for 2020 are being revised, and consequently for the following years. The global economy is already and will continue to suffer widespread negative consequences for some time. Of course, Slovenia is no exception. Accurate dimensions of the consequences in the economic field are difficult to predict in advance, and it is therefore crucial to deal with the facts expected from the emergency situation at this time and how best to prepare for them. Slovenian companies are already seriously experiencing the effects of changed conditions on the global market, as they do not receive ordered goods and raw materials, demand has stopped, economic change is no longer booming. In many of our companies, employers are strongly faced with labour shortages, in some working environments due to inevitable situations in the education and education system, and elsewhere they face hospital absences, isolations and specific quarantines. The closure of the doors of the premises resulting from government orders is a major blow for companies, businesses and craftsmen. The owners are rightly concerned about the liquidity of businesses, and they are concerned about how to survive this crisis period. They must also think of their employees and their survival. Many employers have already organised themselves and adapted themselves to the extent possible and acceptable and in accordance with existing legislation, which of course is commendable. The latter offers quite a few ways of adjusting. In order to bridge the worst, however, the country with intervention measures is also actively involved. The key first measures, which will ease the current situation of employers, are aimed at co-financing the reimbursement of salaries due to the absence of work, which is a direct or indirect consequence at this time of our worst enemy of the coronavirus. On a proposal from the Economic Chamber, the reference period of the allowed quota hours shall be extended in the case of unevenly allocated working hours and temporary redistribution of working time. Independent entrepreneurs without workers and all self-employed persons shall be given the opportunity to postpone payment of contributions made in the last three months up to 31. 3. 2022. I am confident, however, that we will also soon decide on the possibility of cancelling part of contributions to independent entrepreneurs and self-employed people. Members of Desus's line of work are convinced that the legal solutions that have been put in place are appropriate, reasonable and in a given situation the best, so we will, of course, support the measures that are prepared and designed to provide financial assistance to businesses, self-employed and independent entrepreneurs. We believe and recommend that work processes, where possible, continue in the future. In doing so, it is essential that they take place in a safe and consistent manner with the recommendations on the protection of individual health and that all recommendations to prevent the further spread of infections are fully taken into account. The measures were also coordinated with the social partners. Warnings and suggestions by both employers and workers' representatives are in place and are welcome. In particular, we stress the need for all stakeholders to benefit from this. Exploiting the current situation and legislation will not benefit anyone. The fact that we must all be aware is that these are the first solutions that have begun to put out the fire. In addition, a package of measures will need to be taken to assist both the economy and the employees themselves and their families. It is true that the situation at that time is not the same as what we were facing before the decade of the economic crisis. And that's when we kind of stood up to them. It is therefore necessary to believe and trust that the most responsible in this country are doing everything to avoid the black scenario this time too. This meeting of the National Assembly, and probably others in the coming weeks, will be designed to make our lives as normal as possible. But it is up to us to make this possible by our responsible conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u7	Thank you. The text is given by the SNS Group of Members, for which is a colleague Dusan Šiško.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u8	Thank you, Chairman. In the Slovenian national side, we have promised to be a constructive opposition. We're going to show this at our first session today. We will therefore give up all positions and also discussions on today's laws and proposals. There are two reasons. Firstly, we support and vote in favour of all draft laws. Secondly, there is no time for debate; action must be taken. People need to be calmed down and offered quick solutions. This government has taken immediate action, even though it has been in a very unenviable position. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u9	Thank you. The word is given by the SDS Group of Members, for her mag. Carmen Furman.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. All in attendance, everyone! Unfortunately, the outbreak of coronavirus in our country has also crippled the Slovenian economy. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore introduced into the parliamentary procedure the Law on Wage Intervention Measures and Contributions, which we are considering today under an urgent procedure. This law prepares a set of measures to address the problems of Slovenian companies and self-employed people who already face the negative effects of the outbreak of the virus. These are the first, most urgent measures in the field of labour law that will facilitate the current situation of independent entrepreneurs, businesses and at the same time protect the situation of employees. The measures proposed do not prejudice the existing system-wide regulation of labour law, but only temporarily complement it in certain circumstances. The proposed law therefore seeks to maintain jobs or employment in companies facing reduced operating levels due to the outbreak of the virus. The law also tries to mitigate the effects of consequences due to the potential for specific quarantine workers. In order to achieve these two objectives, the draft law provides for state aid, as the State will, under this law, assist employers with partial remuneration for salaries paid in cases where the employer, due to a poor business situation resulting from the outbreak of the virus, will not be able to provide work at the same time to at least 30% of the employees employed and will therefore be able to send them to temporary waiting for work. In this case, it is important that the working relationship does not end in this case, and all rights and obligations in the working relationship will be maintained. During the period of waiting for work, these workers will be entitled to a salary refund of 80% of the salary base, which will be paid by the State and 60% by the employer. The draft law also regulates the payment of remuneration in the case of a specified worker’s quarantine. In this case, too, the worker is entitled to 80 % of the remuneration, with the remuneration paid in full, i.e. in 100 % by the State. On the other hand, for all these measures, which will provide assistance to employers, there are also clearly defined legal guardians, which have already been presented by the Government's representative today. However, the fact is that the bill does not provide a solution only for entrepreneurs and their employees, but also for all forms of self-employed persons for whom the law provides for a suspension of the payment of contributions for the next 3 months. The deferral of payment will be due to beneficiaries under the law itself, with the beneficiary having to settle the value of the deferred contributions without any late interest over the next two years. Your Honor! Given the current situation in the country, this is the first set of government measures in the field of labour and we will consider further intervention measures in the field of agriculture and justice. Given how things are changing from day to day, it is highly likely that in the coming days we will have to consider further measures to mitigate the financial consequences of the epidemic. But unfortunately, we are in such a situation right now, when the government's first priority must be to spend public money to save people's lives and to provide treatment for all patients. Since the proposed measures are, however, urgently needed to mitigate the effects of the virus epidemic on the Slovenian economy as soon as possible, we will also support them in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u11	Thank you. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, for her Aljaž Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The outbreak and rapid spread of the new coronavirus had a profound impact on the lives of all people. Every day life has turned to its head in most countries. The declaration of the epidemic was crucial for the functioning and action of the country in dealing with the new virus, making it possible for the Government to take the necessary measures to combat the spread of the communicable disease very quickly. On this basis, in the last days of its operation, the government has taken significant measures, including the proposal for an intervention law that we are considering today. We certainly welcome and support the proposal of the Marjana Sharca Group of Members, but we are extremely concerned about the urgency of adopting this law. The rush can make things even more complicated. Let me mention that since the end of last week, calls have been made by professions, organisations and other key stakeholders concerned by the law. Among other things, we have adopted a number of proposals and comments today. We can only hope that, due to all the haste, we will not cause the situation to deteriorate in the medium and long term or overlook anything by adopting this law. However, it is up to you to take responsibility for such swift, perhaps even rash, decisions. We can only warn and propose improvements, so in the opposition we have joined forces and tabled additions to the bill. First of all, with regard to inadequate protection of self-employed persons. Complementary legislation in this direction was tabled by the coalition only yesterday at the beginning of the committee meeting, although calls were made last week to find a solution for this group of employees. Of course, we welcome the Government's efforts and actions in this direction, but we believe that they need to be improved. For this reason, we propose a supplement to the proposal for a law allowing all self-employed persons to be exempted from the payment of contributions for three months. Only delaying the payment of contributions, as proposed by the coalition, will not solve the situation, but will only delay the problems of self-employed people. We further point out that a number of organisations, societies, institutions of exceptional importance to our society are not included in the law as eligible employers who can exercise the right to partial remuneration of salaries paid. Neither did the measures. Moreover, some might even fail to do so. We have therefore prepared a supplement extending the beneficiaries under this law to employers established in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Marjan Šarc list, we also propose to raise the level of partial reimbursement of paid employers' salaries by the State to 60%. In order to reduce or stop the cash flow in businesses, they can be found in a situation where employers want to quickly and to a large extent reduce the cost of their labour. By doing so, we are helping employers to keep their employees. Finally, in the light of the fight against the new virus, I would stress the importance of public health, which we have in Slovenia, and I hope that this will remain in the future. Public health doesn't choose who it gives care to. Public health reports that all people deserve treatment or life. That is why I cannot, and I do not want to imagine, a scenario in the past to bow to the pressure of private health defenders under the pretext of making public health by competition better. No, no, no. The situation that has arisen reminds us once again that as a country we must devote more money to the public health system. I believe that we all recognize and understand the importance of public services today. I also want to believe that we will not forget this and that we are grateful to public servants, so we are advocates of the public. At the same time, thank you sincerely to all the employees you work for us, health workers, police, military, food stores, banks, post offices, pharmacies, delivery services, taxi drivers and everything else. The rest of the population would be asked once again, follow the instructions and the measures taken, stay at home. A lot of people can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, for which is Sonibo Prince.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u14	Thank you, President. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The global epidemic of the new virus has triggered such or other emergency situations in all affected countries. Public life is halted, isolation measures and travel restrictions are in place. As a result, economic activity has been significantly reduced, supply and sales routes have been cut short and companies are trying to keep contracting authorities and deliver orders. Above all, both owners and their employees are in great uncertainty because they do not know whether they will continue to operate or maintain jobs under the changed circumstances. Given the situation, it is clear that the proposals on the table today cannot be incomplete and insufficient, so in the coming days we expect proposals for new measures that will help everyone, I stress to everyone affected by this epidemic. We do not have specific legislation to mitigate the consequences of these restrictive measures, at least not one that responds adequately to the huge extent of the measures we have been given these days. For example, the Labour Relations Act provides that the employer’s obligation is a 50 % remuneration for a worker who cannot work due to force majeure and an 80 % remuneration for a worker who is assigned to wait for work. It is therefore logical that new ad hoc measures are being developed, which are being prepared by individual ministries these days. The first measures are related to assistance in the payment of refunds which employers will pay to their employees in the light of the changed situation. Firstly, the State will reimburse employers 40% of the required 80 % remuneration for waiting for work. Secondly, workers who are quarantined and unable to carry out their work remotely will be compensated at 100 % instead of the employer this time provided by the State. This is not a question of support for these proposed measures, of course we support them. At this point, the more important question is whether that's enough. The important question is also whether this aid will be timely and sufficient. Finally, it is important that we help all those who are already facing almost complete income losses because of the spread of the virus and its restrictive measures. Of course, it is necessary to help all the affected. Among them, let us mention at least self-employed and micro-enterprises, both those in the open market and those in the culture who do not have employees but whose income has fallen to a minimum and, of course, the costs have remained, but they must pay contributions, taxes and other obligations. The same applies equally to societies, institutions and institutions that are employers of more than 9,000 people who are also affected by the epidemic but have not been included in the original proposal of this law. In part, warnings regarding self-employed and non-profit employers have already remained. The committee responsible has supplemented the text with the possibility of a two-year suspension of the payment of contributions to self-employed workers for a critical period. However, there was still no understanding on the government's side of the involvement of employers who were not part of the market economy and suffered the same consequences due to restrictive measures and have the same obligations to their employees as market employers. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have signed amendments allowing us to grant the right to compensation for waiting for work to all employers affected, not only to profitable companies. The amendments are also proposed to extend the delay in payment of the contribution to the exemption, as many will not be able to compensate for the loss of revenue that would cover their obligations even after the epidemic has ended. In order to contain the epidemic and its associated damage, we will have to avoid all our forces and adopt a series of solutions. We are only taking the first step by adopting this law. In the Social Democrats' Group, we announce support for the bill, calling on parties and Members to improve it by adopting the amendments and ensuring that all those in need receive first aid.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, for which Janja Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Today’s extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will be marked not only by the coronavirus but, in particular, by our joint fight against its spread and even more by our common struggle to mitigate all its consequences in all other areas of our lives. The virus, which appeared in China at the end of the last year and was severely affected by it, has posed a far - reaching problem for many of us in light years, a problem that is not of concern to our small two million people. But it is today that the spread of this infectious disease is also affecting the entire Western world and our country Slovenia is affected, of course, differently. Now we see that it is not really the size of the country or the geographical distance from the outbreak, but it is something that is priceless and which means the most to us all. And this is our health. When the first cases of coronavirus were confirmed in Italy and such statistics were raised, it became clear that the Slovenian economy would not, of course, remain immune. The consequences also quickly reflected in economic activities in Slovenia, first in tourism, then in logistics, trade and hospitality. In recent days, the Government has therefore taken a very responsible series of measures to control the virus. However, in order for our common fight against the spread of the virus to be effective, and for our country to establish an appropriate relationship between the measures themselves and their actual impact on everyday life, we must also do our homework in this house. Today, therefore, we have before us one of the intervention laws aimed at preserving jobs in businesses operating in the affected sectors. The proposed solutions will mitigate the consequences already left by the outbreak on companies and also on independent entrepreneurs. At this point, however, companies, institutions and institutions have fallen out of this measure. Representatives of the Government have promised us that measures for specific areas within which societies, institutions and institutions operate will be prepared by their specifics by the ministries and will be covered by the umbrella law we are expected to receive in the coming week. Nevertheless, in the SMC, we have warned and reiterated the need for the involvement of non-governmental organisations, we are also reminding again of the need to involve NGOs, and we are also reminding again of the need for the inclusion of espionage. In the present intervention law, it is proposed that employers be reimbursed 40 % of the remuneration for a reduced amount of work. Where the name of the worker is defined as a quarantine, which makes it impossible for him to perform the work, the remuneration shall be paid in full by the State. In both cases, the worker is entitled to 80 % of the remuneration. In addition, solutions are proposed for self-employed persons in the form of postponement of payment of contributions, which also provides them with some social security in these difficult situations. But I repeat, it takes more. In view of the current situation, it is right for the State to ensure the safety of citizens, both from a health point of view and from a social security perspective, by means of measures taken and intervention solutions. It is right that the state helps employers to be able to provide jobs for their workers in the future. And if some workers today are unable to perform their work because of the virus in one way or another, on the other, we have a whole range of employees in health care, firefighting, police, commerce, post office, pharmacy and so on who are working to help others. In the SMC, we therefore propose that future measures also take care of these people and reward them for their dedication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is given by the left-wing group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today we are considering an intervention law to protect jobs, which will help employers in the private sector by providing irreversible subsidies. As we pointed out in Levica yesterday on the Committee, some Slovenian companies in 2018 showed sufficient accumulation of funds to pay salaries and compensation for the next few months and the entire economy also showed 4.2 billion euros in net profit in 2018. In contrast, we have workers who cannot earn enough to live a decent life even in a conjuncture. Of course, it is appropriate to help businesses, but it is necessary to help them protect workers rather than capitalists' profits. That any solidarity of capital with a society in the epidemic, which also makes profits available to it, does not exist, becomes clear as soon as we look at the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. These ladies and gentlemen say that the subsidies granted by this law to them by the State are not sufficient and they would like to be financed even more efficiently without fuses and without conditions. Not only does he provide them with additional subsidies, but he also wants to be empowered to impose compulsory leave, he wants to be free to forgive, he wants to force people to retire and so on. One of the branches of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry went even so far as to make a request that all obligations of employers be suspended. I quote: “Everyone has a refrigerator and a freezer at home, everyone has some supplies at home and can therefore spend at least one month without pay.” End of quote. By addressing and responding to this crisis, capital has been definitively discredited to manage the economy. Even in times of record profits, capital representatives are not prepared to share these profits with the community or with their employees. They lobby all the time for lower taxes, for lower labour standards, but a few months ago we were able to monitor how they break the minimum wage before raising the minimum wage even contradicted. These same people, who have been preaching for months that the state must by no means interfere with the economy and improve the situation of the working class, well, these same people today demand generous and unconditional state aid. Even in the middle of the epidemic and in the face of the ban on collecting in closed rooms and with the restriction of the collection of up to five persons in public places, employers, at least some employers, work with employees as livestock and deliberately risk mass infection. Protection in manufacturing, in shops, in the field of security and elsewhere is bad if it even exists. It is important that people come to the production hall, that they are packed for the production lane and that the industrial bicycles continue to turn. In some of these production halls, like in Gorenje, there are some 100 people working, in a particular case in Gorenje, which I mentioned, 3 thousand 500 people. And how does Mr. Restoring Minister respond? Minister Restoration says that production processes cannot be stopped, nor should those that are not necessarily needed to provide the population. Just to generate and generate profits, we're in the middle of an extraordinary epidemic. And these people will now receive additional public funding. So much for the introduction, so much for the context, we know where we are. Following this debate, we will present proposals in Levica to supplement the law, which puts the prevention of poverty among employees and the resolution of self-employed workers at the top of the agenda. These are proposals from civil society and humanitarian organisations. They were attended by all trade unions and supported by more than 10,000 petitioners to help self-employed people. But it's on deck for three measures. First time. To limit the recipients of subsidies not only to employers in the economy and to profitable activities, but also to societies, institutions, organisations, organisations. Jobs in these sectors are as important as those in the economy. Another time. In order to allow for an 80 % remuneration for all workers who are unable to work due to the epidemic, but not only for some, but for others, they remain at 50%. Third time. That, in the next three months, single-person espam should be exempted from payment of contributions, not just as this law does, in order to postpone this payment of contributions to them. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u19	Thank you. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group, for which is Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State Matej Rybič, I welcome you! Today we are considering the updated proposal for a law on intervention measures for partial reimbursement of wages. New Slovenia is a party that feels the economy, and in these circumstances, when a pandemic or epidemic is declared in our country, we feel the economy in particular at that time. The economy is, of course, workers and employers. And what was said, this Slovenian economy did create a good four billion profits in 2018. Thank you. This is under the letter A. Under the letter B, or point B, it should also be said that this same Slovenian economy invested a good EUR 8 billion in the same year 2018. I have to say my compliments here. I am personally surprised, indeed, that this government has in less than a hundred hours, not a hundred days, less than a hundred hours, prepared the first package of five intervention laws. I stress that this is the first package, and it is not the last package of measures that we want to take as a coalition, government or Slovenian policy together, I underline, Slovenian policy together to mitigate the consequences of the crisis, which has hit us unprepared. I would like to point out that I am truly grateful to the parliamentary opposition, which is here to this point, I believe that, even in the future, I have shown an extremely constructive attitude, which means that we are truly united here in this Chamber in Slovenian politics in these difficult times. Only in this way will we be able to cope more quickly with the consequences that this virus has brought us, this epidemic, or the consequences that are yet to come. We're in a hurry to take action. We can take it for granted or as a confession. I take it as a confession. The spread of infections or the rate of spread of infections with the virus is the most sinister side of the exponential curve. In the coalition, we want to stress that our response to the crisis is in two directions. First of all, preventing the spread of the virus. So we try to do everything we can to reduce our contacts, for we have actually stopped social or social life. And to care for the sick — we took care of additional facilities, medical equipment, and so on. And for those who save our lives. Again and again, this city thanks all those who are making real superhuman efforts and caring for our health and our lives. I want to say that we understand and hear all those who now have outstanding problems with parental protection, we understand the employees on hold and that we are doing everything we can to alleviate these problems as much as possible. We are also ensuring the urgent supply of the country and so on. The second direction in which we work is to realize that we must do everything we can to ensure that after the epidemic there will not be a collapse or even between the epidemic and the collapse of the Slovenian economy. That is why we really pay a lot of attention to the Slovenian economy, i.e. once again, to workers and employers. The New Slovenia Group is pleased that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which is specifically the carrier of the measures brought by this law, and that these measures are the right thing to do at this time. But we're expecting a follow-up. As I said, this is the first package of measures that is not the last package of measures. We will support this law, as well as the proposed amendments, which we have co-signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u21	Thank you. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, for her Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honors are here! The Coronavirus has put us on the real ground. He clearly pointed to the outstanding importance of public health for normal operation and life. Public health is one of the greatest civilizational gains and a common human value, which is at the heart of the social and economic development of modern society. As we can see from the current, sometimes also a lot of chaotic conditions, the social, cultural, technological, psychological, demographic, political and civilisational conditions of the individual community also have a strong impact on public health in addition to biological factors and forms of health care. The consequences of the pandemic and the measures taken to contain it affect not only the health and social life of people but also the fundamentals of economic activity and development. These effects are sometimes already well-known in the sectors of hospitality, tourism, trade. And here we have to prove ourselves as a society in all areas – as a profession, as a policy, as a media, as a citizen. In this situation, it is imperative to help economic operators, employees and self-employed to survive and survive. We know how much effort and years of hard work it takes for an economic operator to come to life. It would be a great shame if, as a society, we didn't try to stop them from dying. And one of the measures is before us – an intervention law designed to contribute to the preservation of jobs in businesses operating in the affected sectors, partly by the payment of salaries paid to workers who are temporarily unemployed and the exemption of payments to self-employed workers. In the SAB Group, we believe that measures to relieve employers and self-employed, who are the most vulnerable group, are absolutely necessary. People need help. Human resources are the foundation of our work and development. In particular, given the demographic picture, by reducing the share of the active part of the population, human capital is becoming an even more precious social asset to be protected. And that is what this law is supposed to do — to protect employees and businesses. Let's make sure that's true. The importance of employees is not only in production but also in purchasing power. Because we don't produce what we need ourselves, we buy. This creates demand, which is the basis for supply and economic activity. There is also savings for more expensive purchases or later consumption, which is the basis of the financial system. The money saved does not lie, but it is lent to those who need it in the meantime, by financial intermediaries, banks, funds, insurance companies and so on. This creates a complex cycle that drives the money economy, work, consumption, saving, investment. And here is the European Central Bank. We are also involved in the wider community, in the euro area, as well as in the European and global community. The pandemic has clearly reminded the world of the need to coordinate international cooperation and solidarity. Thus, at the European Central Bank, additional loans to banks and massive bonds purchases amounting to EUR 120 billion per month are announced to help the economy. It is even considering completely unconventional measures to give every citizen of the European area a free, endlessly long loan, say, of EUR 2 000. The ECB would manage this loan in its balance sheet as an interest-free loan that would be extended and should never be repaid. As has already been said, in the SAB Group we welcome the proposed measures. To conclude, however, health and concern for them are not only the interests of individuals, medical professions and institutions, but rather the responsibility of the entire social community. So, once again, all who have the opportunity to work from home, stay at home, take care of yourself and others, and follow the instructions of the profession in a consistent manner. Employers shall be provided with protective equipment and protection, the health of their employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. To Article 1, to the title of Chapter 2 to Article 11a and Article 11b. Since the amendments to Article 1 to Chapter 2 to Article 11a and Article 11b are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate Article 1, Title 2 of Chapter 11, Article 11a, Article 11b and Article 11b, and the two amendments of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus and the four amendments of the members of the left-wing groups, LMŠ and SD. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I'm going through the list. The word is Aljaž Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, President. In some ways, it has been said that we are setting up a coalition when we warn that it is in a hurry. I can't agree with that. We are aware that we are in an emergency and that measures must be taken quickly in the List of Marjan Šarc. It is essential, however, that these measures are deliberate and democratic and that we can all say what is wrong with this law, that if the government wants to, it can fix it. As we have already said in our position, in fact, all the parties have said that the situation is changing from day to day. Also, the previous government, the government of Marjana Sarca, which we are considering today, has prepared this law for the situation that has been in the given situation. In our client, we look at it more widely, and we also think about what will happen when this epidemic is over. We think that measures should also go in this direction, saying what the consequences of this epidemic will be. I must stress that all measures must go in the direction that the socially vulnerable groups will not get worse after the crisis, so the laws themselves must go in this direction. Not only our client, but also other parties warn that there is much improvement in this law, but we have finally received dozens of e-mails from different organisations talking about what is wrong with this law and what could be improved. As a result, the opposition and I have also drafted amendments. The first amendment is about self-employed people. The government has moved forward here to freeze them for three months to pay all their contributions and then to pay for it within two years. We look at it in a way that if they don't have that money now, we wonder if they'll have money for these three months in two years to cover these contributions. In fact, the problem is only spread for two years. That is why we have proposed in the amendment that these contributions be actually written off for these three months. We know that there are more than 120 000 self-employed people in Slovenia who do different jobs, and if we do not do so, I hope that most of them will unfortunately fail. The other thing we're kind of trying to do is, with respect to societies, it's like who can use help. Here we have been approached by various societies, from the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Red Cross, the Alliance of Friends of Youth, the Center of NGOs, the Mountain Union, the National Forum of Humanitarian Organizations and many others. We received these letters today. We want everyone to be entitled to this aid, if I may say so. In fact, they would simply change the dictatorship, saying that the supplement speaks for all beneficiaries under this law who are employers and are established in the Republic of Slovenia. This avoids actually letting anyone go. The third amendment, which we have drawn up in the Marjan Sarca List, speaks of the fact that we are aware that, in order to reduce the cash flow in companies, many businesses will be in crisis in order to actually go from 40% to 60%. These are the amendments, the two we have prepared together with the opposition, one alone, I have no doubt that the debaters will also describe them in more detail for me. I would have some comments on the law itself, which, otherwise, we have not been able to amend here, but I would have highlighted some of the problems that await us and which have been released from the law itself. This is actually a student issue with three decrees. With the temporary ban on goods and services, we have initially prevented students from working, and with the temporary stay ban decree we have actually driven them out of student homes, with the temporary ban and restrictions on the public transport of passengers, we have also prevented them from driving by public transport. I am not saying here that any of these decisions have been misadopted, I just want to say that the students are in a very difficult situation. We know that students actually come from different places of Slovenia and most of the work is done in the largest cities of study, according to Ljubljana, Maribor and even Primorska, and in fact these students cannot now stay in this place where they work, nor can they get to work. Only those with passenger cars can be brought in. So here I appeal to the government not to forget about the students and help them as much as they can. The second point I would like to point out is the comments made by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. I wouldn't define myself by everyone. I'll point out one thing, especially that the fines for violations are too low. If someone breaks the law, I think it's a little funny to say that the fine is too low, because fines are most likely not to be broken and that the one who breaks the law is also appropriately punished. However, I would like to draw attention to another matter that is already taking place in public administration today that employers send their workers on leave, which is a violation of the law. The law actually says what vacation is and that this should not happen, it is said that the employer does not have the right to send the worker unilaterally on leave. By calling here on the competent ministry to pay attention to these violations and to intervene through the inspectorate. Once again, I would like to thank all those who actually care about this situation in Slovenia today, all health workers, all those who work in the store, I will not list them so that I will not let anyone go. In the end, I would say, given that this law, as I said at the outset, is being adopted quite quickly, that it is not actually possible, even if I say domestically, to study 100 per cent, we will confirm it in the List of Marjan Šarc, but to the confidence of the President of the Government and the competent minister, who will then bear responsibility for this proposal and all the consequences associated with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Get ready, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Now, somehow even a little bit of the nature of my work, in this reference I was probably the first to know where we were going, where we were going, even as a result of that, that call I made at the previous meeting of the President of the Government was the same as it was, even though then I experienced a defeat. We are slowly finding out where we are, where we are and how we will move forward, but we do not really know yet, but this is essentially a political task. And I, the chairman, am very sad that we somehow self-derogate as a national assembly. The fact that there is a crisis, that we have an epidemic that can become a pandemic, that is no reason for less politics, that is no reason for less ideology. This is the reason for more ideology, the ideology of publicly available public health for introduction. That's why there's more politics. I agree that we should be united, yes, but let us be united in a wealth of diverse opinions. Politics is basically a public use of minds for the common good. I hope, Mr President of the National Assembly, that you will assure us that the work of the National Assembly will continue in the way of what is the task of the National Assembly, a parliamentary debate. And the crisis is no excuse for that. Some of these intervention laws have already been drafted by the previous government, as is known. Thus, some of the party’s praises of some of the members of the groups have been dropped. All these intervention laws will or must be in some way, as we call software, work and progress. If we listen to the first lady of the European Central Bank, because we don't know yet, the lady herself said that there might be a percentage, maybe 3%, maybe 10%. What must be the basic task of all these laws is, I think yesterday or the day before, to say very nicely to Dr. Alenka Zupančič: strengthening the immune system of society. This must be the key task of all these laws. Much has been said, but if I touch this first of the intervention laws specifically, the fact and problem will be liquidity. Let's stop blinding ourselves. And if we want a society that will not be a society who will eat someone who will not be a society, I don't know, a jackal battle, we will need a partial debt write-off on a global level. Without that, it's not gonna work. There will also be a need for some reflection on reglobalisation. We can't de-globalize as we can see. Consideration will also need to be given to the deprivatisation of profits. You know, I can honestly say there's enough money hidden in the tax havens to deal with this crisis financially. I just don't know if there's enough sense in the heads of politicians, both Slovenian and European and global, to decide that. And that seems to me to be some sort of key issue. Let's stop fooling around. We will no longer be able to restore certain jobs. Therefore, it must also be the responsibility of the policy to reflect on this. After all, we have this experience in textiles and elsewhere. Even reflection in self-isolations, we have the tools to use them, when it is worth funding some community money, as I call it, to provide some new jobs. There will probably also be a need to think about something called an adult society in the medium term. These are basically some of the things that are ahead of us. And if anything, we need to do what, unfortunately, Marjan Sarec has not done – a relatively small society, but open up a lot of thinking and smart people for an opinion. This is the task of a responsible policy. And I also urge Janez Janša to open up government resources for thinking people, because the virus is not, unfortunately, blue here. We must give the virus and another and another society all the time and allow people who think, regardless of the party book, or even if they do not want to decide that we are to co-create a future society together. I'll support these intervention laws myself. I call on you, Comrade Zorčič, once again to enable the normal work of the National Assembly under crisis conditions. We can go to some e-story for the last time there are only 90 of us, a relatively small national assembly is, there are software tools, or in the way they did it in neighbouring Austria, to find some space where we together can be more dispersed and not endanger each other. Of course, I also appeal to the government that in some way of repression, in a way of mistrusting citizens and citizens, in a way that will haunt us in the streets, we will not win this battle. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u27	Thank you very much, buddy Duck. Thank you for your suggestions, too. I must inform you that we are working on this, and the situation is such that we do not have some legal basis to hold a videoconference session today. But I hope that this will be possible in the near future. Comrade Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, the Coronavirus is also known in the economy, in the absence of orders, at the loss of income and so on. And companies need to be helped. In times of crisis, the state must come to their aid. It's a question of how he does it. It can save businesses in a way that helps workers who work in these companies. However, it can save businesses in a way that essentially protects profits and returns for capital holders. Regrettably, the government decided to follow this other course by means of this law and others. It is more than public health, workers' health and the protection of employees that the government is interested in protecting the profits of capital. If that were not the case, it would not be at the same time that the ban on collecting in public places is set even as low as 5 people could normally continue to operate production facilities with a few hundred, even a few thousand people in activities that are absolutely not vital for society to operate and supply during the epidemic. While people in this country as citizens should not be grouped outside into a group of more than 5 people, we have a production hall in Gorenje, where 3 000 500 employees work, for the tape are squeezed inside like sardines. These sites are risky sites for mass infection. But employers, capital owners, these are the same ones who, by today's law, give subsidies, irreparable subsidies, they don't care. Yesterday, I read to the committee, when we discussed this law, some of the many employee testimonies that are forced to go to work during the epidemic, otherwise employers threaten them with forgiveness, sanction them. These are concrete examples, many of them, formerly rules as an exception to a large part of the Slovenian economy, production continues peacefully in those companies where infections have been detected. There is no adequate protection for workers. The first measure to be taken in the context of an epidemic of such an magnitude as we have is to close all major areas. All major sites that are not absolutely necessary should be closed. Why are some sub-contracting factories for German automobile corporations still pumping out metal pieces? And there are a few hundred thousand people in there on minimum wages, on wages a little over minimum wage, so that the owners and owners will collect profits. And if he doesn't intend to join the country with subsidies from production. These are completely wrong priorities. Obviously, neither employers nor the country is interested in public health in the first place. Employers are even endangering the health of employees at the expense of profits — heartless, shameless. When in the last few years, at the time of the merger, they made record profits each year, in 2018, when the latest known data was EUR 4.2 billion, and when they did not want to share these profits with the employees, with the community, when they did not want to pay taxes when they mine the minimum wage, at the first sign of difficulties they hit under the country's wing. When, in every measure to protect work, workers’ salaries were raised, how this is an invasion of the economy and that this is not the case. All major sites other than emergency goods and services should be closed. At the same time, we can also look back at what they are doing now. Certain companies that produced essential goods or, in particular, worked in a military industrial complex took over the country and reorganised them overnight to start working fans, respirators, masks, etc. Why do we have to do this with us? Last night, an affair of missing masks broke out. Three million masks didn't happen, and a million masks were taken over by the Germans. Why does the government not go and look at Slovenian companies that could contribute by producing emergency medical techniques, these companies take over and turn production into social needs? In the field of health, these social needs are now drastic. All other companies that do essential things, let them close up and send people home and let the country jump in and cover the loss of their income. Not like this law when it subsidizes employers to send workers on hold. And while giving employers grants, virtually to beautiful eyes, without conditions, without espionage, the self-employed is only granted a three-month suspension. This also reflects government priorities to try to save rich people, capital, workers' health or our public health is a matter of second order. Of course, we cannot cut into this law with amendments to reorganise industrial production, those that can be made for medical devices and that the state takes over and takes over businesses, but in Levica within the framework and purpose of the law we have submitted three sets of amendments that regulate the priority slightly differently than that government or its predecessor. Our first amendment wants to ensure that these subsidies, which go to employers, do not stop in the economy and are not only for profit companies, but also for other forms of organised human activities that also record income losses. There are societies, public institutions, humanitarian institutions and so on. This is not something that has grown on our herbs, we are only trying to blend the content that civil society has prepared into the provision of this law. Nine thousand 300 employees work in this sector, which I am mentioning. This will also lead to a loss of income and job losses because their organisations from humanitarian and social welfare societies cannot continue to provide jobs. This is where these 9,000 300 people are going to fall out, and these people too need to be taken care of. Our amendment says that these people are taken care of in the same way as the State grants private capital subsidies. Under this measure are signed the Olympic Committees of Slovenia, the Red Cross, the Union of Friends of Youth, the Center of NGOs, the Mountain Union, the National Forum of Humanitarian Organizations and also all trade unions. So, indeed, virtually all the people who do something in our society but do not do it in the economy are in favour of the initiative that at the time of the epidemic for 9,000 300 employees in this, we can call it the non-governmental sector, provide public funds and cover their salaries in the same way as the state has already done with this law for private capitalist enterprises. The second set of amendments that we want them to enter into the action on the table is that all workers who are unable to work due to the epidemic will receive an 80% compensation. Some groups of workers have found themselves in the situation of staying at home, but receive only 50% of their salary compensation because they have to protect their children because they have been deprived of protection, schools are closed, kindergartens are closed, they cannot reach their jobs because they have shut down public transport and so on. Especially those of the lowest categories of wages, if we halve two workers' salaries in the working household to 50%, as much as it would now be a compensation, the epidemic is not only threatening these people by attacking their health status, but also by threatening their social status, they are directly threatened by poverty. They won't have food, there will be groups that won't be able to afford bills, and there will be rents or whatever. In short, for all the people affected by the epidemic who have stayed at home for any reason, it will be 80 %. This law, which we are considering, was prepared before measures were taken to prohibit certain undertakings from operating before kindergartens and schools were closed before public transport stopped. I think that this development needs to be taken into account in the law and that 80% of the wages should be paid to all employees, otherwise people will be not only in health, but also in social security and we will slip into poverty. The third set of amendments we propose to the law is to take better care of the self-employed. Or it's a one-person espionage that they're self-employed in culture. This is about all forms of self-employment. Once again, I would like to stress that this law, which was passed on the table by the government, gives rise to irreparable subsidies. This category of workers, labourers, self-employed persons, if you like, only allocates a suspension of payment of contributions, a three-month delay in payment of their contributions. That's not good enough, that's a mistake. At the very least, workers should be exempted from paying contributions for these three months, but not only should they be given the form of an interest-free loan, but they should be reimbursed later on, when the crisis is over, by these workers. The laxative work is practically permanent in the crisis. The workers are not now in a difficult situation because of the loss of orders, and the crisis is something new, incomprehensible, something that happened overnight. The mere laxative work is a crisis, and the rate of poverty is the highest in this category of workers. Data from 2017, under the poverty risk threshold is almost a third of the self-employed. Urgently, the state has to cut down and help self-employed people more thoroughly than it does with this law because it does not really help them – it gives them credit. For self-employed people, the crisis did not begin with the outbreak and the end of the epidemic will not end for them. And just as they are now hard to pay or are unable to settle their financial obligations to the social system due to the collapse of contracts and jobs, they will not have to pay their contributions, even in a year, two years, three years, they will also pay double contributions in order to return what the state is now supposed to allow them to put into the future. The group of workers, usually a few younger groups of workers, is the one that is most subject to fluctuations in the Slovenian real estate market or, more specifically, on the market of rental apartments. This group of workers is most directly threatened by not only loss of income, loss of survival capacity, but also loss of home, including loss of roof over their heads. So that all self-employed, single-person espas, self-employed persons in culture and others who do more or less of their own work are not strong employees, it is necessary to exempt, reduce, for at least three months, the payment of their contributions not only from the payment of their contributions to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is given by colleague Soniboj Knezak, prepare Lidija Dijak Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u30	Thank you, President. If events have shown up a few days or the last few weeks, it is that as a country, as a society, we were very poorly prepared for the crisis we are facing. It is true that we are facing a health crisis for the first time and that this crisis is one that raises a number of questions that we cannot answer today. No one in this country can tell us what our condition will be within 10 days, 14 days. We daily monitor unforeseen situations that also require rapid action. That the situation is serious, I do not think it is necessary to pay particular attention because we are monitoring what is happening in our immediate vicinity in Italy, where almost 500 people die daily. This number is increasing, so I think that there is no need to stress any further comment on the gravity of the situation that is just outside our door. We Social Democrats were the ones who opened and also supported the initiative to convene an extraordinary meeting as soon as possible and to hand over all powers to the new government on Friday. We also gave up the debate precisely because of what I am explaining right now because we are aware of the difficult situation. I'd hardly say the government has done anything in these few days. Far from it, I can see they're trying. It would be difficult to say that they are doing nothing in order to resolve this crisis. One of the laws with which they came before this national assembly today was the Law on Partial Reimbursement of Wages. This law has in fact been living in one of its forms even in 2008, when we faced a crisis of a different dimension, a financial crisis. I will tell you from my own experience, because I have been in the company, one of the subsidiaries that has benefited and helped us, including these subsidies, that it has survived and made it possible to pay wages on a regular basis, and finally that we have also kept jobs. I firmly believe that such a measure will also produce results in this crisis. The measures that we are taking are quick and require rapid action. This speed is usually not good many times. From this point of view, one thing we have missed out on in this law, which we are now discussing, is that we have missed quite one fine number of citizens and citizens we have not covered with this law. In order not to explain in particular, together with the LMŠ Members and the Left, we have tabled a proposal for amendments, which rightly refer to or include some 100,000 of those who have open espacies among the recipients of this State aid. Here all Members and Members have received hundreds of letters in these days, reminding us of their plight. I think that we are united here, that if the matter is not adopted today, I hope it will be in the next steps that they must be involved in this matter. I don't need to stress that these are small craftsmen, hairdressers who don't have any accumulation. With these envisaged solutions to delay their contributions for three months, we have essentially done nothing. We may have turned it off a little. If they were to be returned within a year or two, this structure would be difficult. We even think that all those covered by these government measures are, if they are prevented by economic activity, that they must be entitled to these compensations. I know that this will be a big financial contribution for the country, but we must see that we will justly share the burdens of this crisis among all in this society. 100,000 espions, I think it's a group we can't miss, and I hope these amendments are accepted. If I remind you how people react to this crisis in a purely human way. About a week ago, we witnessed, and we also appealed that people should not loot food stores, but that is a basic human fear of uncertainty. First you make sure you have something to eat. But what will be the next phase, if we do not ensure liquidity in this country, is that this will be the first time that companies that would allow them to survive will pay their salaries, and on the other hand a variety of smaller espases that will run out of income overnight, the next month will be the first time there will be no income, and when there is no money to buy basic things, believe me, we can quickly have thousands of people who will resist such measures. I believe, however, that we are all sober enough together to fix this or that we will also accept this for these groups, which we have included in this proposal, that we will also reduce the fears that arise with all these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is from colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u32	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Nice greeting, distinguished representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I'm only going to say what I said yesterday about the speed of this marriage. If it were confirmed today or tomorrow, the only difference is that by tomorrow some things would be included and considered more. Now you're just gonna be a little bit more headaches, and I wouldn't need you. Even today, we have had a huge number of societies, organizations, entrepreneurs, espouses, because the law concerns them and their existence. It also concerns that next month they may not have more to put in the pot than Soni has just said. I can tell you all my experiences. My two are home all day now. We've cooked and baked a lot before, and now we're doing it again. Now let me have someone explain, especially in the government explain to me how to do this in self-employed families, those who work in institutions, societies, espies, because without income you can't do this. I liked it very much earlier when Mr Horvat said that in NSi they feel the economy, which is fine, but only now must we move from words to action. The action, however, is to support the amendment that we have proposed today in the combined opposition of LMŠ, SD and Levica, and this is to write off our contributions for at least three months. It is to feel the economy, and at the same time not only to feel but also to do something about it. There are 120 thousand people like that. The self-employed also pay contributions, for the most part they still have what kind of rent, what kind of loans, and I don't imagine my hairdresser Natasha, how she's actually going to do all this together, how she's going to survive, so to speak, because she just had to close up her salon. It's very simple. You can see that on my head right now. Nevertheless, these self - employed people will have to pay these contributions, but with a delay. To put it domestically, we gave them one credit again, without interest, because they're just going to have to pay for it. This does not seem right to us, so we suggest that we ease this situation and free them from paying for these three months. We're actually going to have a paradox. These espies will close down their companies and apply to the institution. And there the state will have to help them anyway. And then they'll come to social services. Then what did we do? We didn't do anything. That's why it makes sense to support the amendment we tabled. And another paradox is about to happen to us. The black market will grow and flourish. Is that what we want? Probably not. Therefore, yesterday we warned you to reconsider and move this meeting to tomorrow, because if we accept it today or tomorrow, there will probably be no big difference, but the measures can be so much better and so much more thoughtful. We are proposing another amendment, namely that it would be fair for the State to subsidise a higher part of the compensation, saying that the State is subsidising 60% and that employers are subsidising 40%. Why? Not because, as one candidate for a minister recently said, but because we believe that the first thing the employer will actually do is want to reduce the costs at the expense of the employees. What else is he gonna do?Oh, my God! That is why it seems right for us to take over 60% of the country and 40% of the employer. He's already talked about college homes and students. Nevertheless, as the former director of student homes, who are a public institution and actually survive and receive their income from the rent of students, I would suggest that public institutions can also benefit from these measures of law because the system will collapse. Therefore, we note that it is not appropriate to accept things tomorrow ad hoc, but to take a full look at them and also to think about them, even if it takes an hour or two more hours. Therefore, I respectfully invite you, my fellow members in the coalition, to support the amendments that we have tabled, as we say, the united opposition, the Left, the LMSH, the SD, and to resolve the matter now, because otherwise you will have to solve it tomorrow. That's what we'd like to say at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Let's start with a list. The first one has the word of his colleague Alexander Reberšek. He's not here. It's probably a bug report. Iva Dimic's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Well-welcome in these difficult situations in which Slovenia found itself because of the coronavirus, in situations that I had then pointed out 14 days ago as opposition Member of the Prime Minister of the Government of Marjan Sarc that there was something to be done. And it turns out things didn't work out that way, I'll say, everything's ready. However, today's proposals we are talking about have been inter-resortically coordinated a week ago, so that today there are always new and new amendments, and I am also receiving a lot of mail. It seems right for me to say that the government has responded quickly to the situation, that it is right that it has called for those who do not really have a compulsory job and an urgent job to stay at home and that in this case payment has also been made to stay at home. No one likes home, but we know that, but it seems to me that we will do the most for each other and for each other. As far as independent entrepreneurs are concerned. True, we have received many letters to our e-mail addresses, and I can say that I feel sorry for all those who have been in a difficult situation because of the Coronavirus, in some personal distress, even financial distress. Postponing contributions for three months is, in a way, a reasonable action and I support it, as further needs will then be revealed. I'm hoping things will normalize within three months. As it goes on, I think it's still open, and it's only right that we start to behave responsibly towards public finances. Even for the money of all of us. It will depend on how, even after this epidemic, we can relaunch the economy, new jobs. You know what the old Slovenian proverb says: Saving when it is, do not save when there is nothing. So that's what needs to be taken into account. Nothing, and once again, is final. They've got two years to pay off. During this time, it will show how, in what way, things can be written off or accounted for. In short, we need to follow and be subtle, social, also reasonable to public finances and that we need money for quite some time if, in the event of an epidemic, things are to be delayed. To be responsible, once again, for yourself, for others, for the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u35	Thank you very much. My friend Kordish has the floor. Get ready, colleague Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I think that the force is irresponsible to public finances, that for these resources we have at our disposal, it works in such a way that public finances are directed at those who already have enough and will not be harmed by the various GZS, capitalist, even at the time of the crown. Only in this way has this intervention law, which we are considering, attempted to resolve the situation of the crown of the crisis. The capitalists took the first one into the dam, which already has a lot. It's the working class, the usual chess players, but it's the singers who'll pull that short. As employers are doing in the situation of the epidemic, I have presented some concrete cases on the committee yesterday, and I have prepared even more for today's meeting. On the Instagram social network, there is a profile of Delozlom, to which workers are approached by descriptions of their situations, whether they are workers or regular employees, and even at the time of the Delozlom epidemic, they receive very many complaints from workers. I'll read you some of those. “I work in a store. The administration reports that traffic has fallen because of the crown and that we should start saving more on the material we use — tape, buckles, paper. Finally, they say that we should save and be modest, but they do not remember that we should at least say that we should keep our health safe if no infection has been sent to the store, even though it has been asked. Only that transport, only that money, the health of employees is not important.” You will now devote public finances to this employer – why? Because it's such a great concern for the health of employees that non-emergency establishments are still working just to get the bosses to pull the profits? “Production. Approximately 55 employees are not exactly numbers, but still constant contacts, etc. Leadership has a meeting every Monday about how and what. In these circumstances, it would be expected that, as usual, they will organise a meeting that is safe for all participants and will address the current situation and take measures to combat covidu-19. What about them? They scan the meeting because it's too risky and workers like assholes to work.” Next. »Despite the pandemic, workers in the production of Iskra Mechanisms in Kamnik still have to work normally. It is known that in our company's unit in Lipnica, production of the infected was stopped and in Kamnik as if there were nothing. After all, we have received instructions on non-grouping between breaks, but what if we are in close contact with each other in production and because of the production tape, each piece takes at least twice into the hands of each other. In the room where we work, there are more than 30 of us at the same time. We don't know what to do or who to turn to. The guides are only interested in pieces, it is already clear to us that they are not interested in our health.” How many million will you give to this company – a poor employer who in the middle of the epidemic pushes employees like sardines into the production lane? “A nice greeting. I'm a worker from Gorenje. I'd like to ask you to check on the traffic in the morning when we're going to work at the gate when they check our heat. There's 200 of us in the hall next to each other. Thank you for your cooperation. Please, because you do not want to get sick.” Next story. “My parents work in LTH. This morning, they received a message on what measures will be taken because of the coronary virus. They're gonna shut down the cafeteria, no more coffee. The distance between the workers on the tape must be 2 meters, although the majority of the tapes are made by 6 and the tape is about 5 meters long. In addition, they have closed their wardrobe and must come to work dressed in working clothes and must also go out of work in a work dress. The only option is to change in the car, but most carpools get more together. Besides, the toilet situation is terrible, it's all pissy, no infection, no masks, nothing given to them. It seems disgusting to me." »Mercator warehouse. The boss says it's work Saturday because of the emergency. And I tell him I won't. I'm coming to the checkout yesterday, about 70 flakes for a change. She asked me if I knew Saturday was working. Yeah, I know, but I told my boss I wouldn't. And look at the fraction, I get the disciplinary measure." Because a man didn't want to come on an extremely busy Saturday at the time of the epidemic because he was afraid for his health. It was the epidemic that called the bosses on Saturday. There's no limit to such stories. And now, in order to secure the profits of the owners of these companies, you prefer public finances, instead of closing all the most unnecessary companies, protecting the salaries of employees. This would be responsible for public finances. In order to be properly governed by this public money intervention law and to protect the working class most in need of protection, we submitted amendments to the Committee yesterday in Levica and were rejected for this meeting – in a united line of opposition. Together with SD and LMŠ, we all signed under the fact that workers in societies, organisations, public institutions and institutions – 9 000 300 people who do not work in a profitable economy alone are entitled to state aid. The Olympic Committees of Slovenia say they would do so; the Red Cross says they would do so; CNVOS says they would do so; the Union of Youth Friends; the National Forum of Humanitarian Organizations; trade centres. Let's support this amendment, get the votes, and also help the employees in those institutions that are not just production lanes. The same needs to be done to help self-employed workers – their contributions for the next 3 months. Not just credit them, write down contributions. Of course, 80 % of the compensation for all workers who stay at home because of the crown and are unable to work, regardless of whether they are unable to work because public transport is suspended or because they have to pay their children, is now receiving 50% of the compensation. Our amendment gives them an 80% refund. I think that so much political will and so much honesty towards the working class in this national assembly should indeed be found, especially in times of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u37	Thank you. There's a colleague of Han's. Get ready, Comrade Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u38	Thank you very much. There are many stories and every day there are new stories either by workers or by independent entrepreneurs or by other entrepreneurs or by associations, institutions. We are all familiar with this moment of crisis, which has indeed come to this country and this world is unannounced if we are completely exposed. It is therefore right for all of us to work together to ensure that governments, in order to try to remedy the damage as soon as possible. There will probably be more to such laws, similar laws, and decisions will have to be made from day to day. If we only know that, thank God, the ECB adopted last night that it will put 750 billion so-called helicopter money into the European system, then it is likely that countries will be able to help themselves with this. Look, because of health, which is the first and most important, we have taken steps to close some of the economics absolutely. And these entities, innkeepers, tourists, hairdressers, auto mechanics, small bus carriers, bus carriers, they haven't had any income in a week. I think it would be wise to write off contributions in three months and then use liquidity money in three months to help them get to the green branch. The same for companies engaged in humanitarian activities, which also have employed people. I do not agree with what Miha said that all factories should be closed. Where workers are protected, where they can work, thank God the factories are crawling. If we shut down some factories, we'll never turn them around again. We can't close one of the greenhouses where the ovens are, because if we shut it down, we've closed it for a year, two years. It is therefore necessary to work on safeguards. Not in the way they are now procured that the truck is not that the driver is not, we agree with that, but in fact it is necessary to be relatively fast. Me and Levica and the LMSH have tabled amendments. We propose that they be accepted in the way we have submitted them. We help these most vulnerable groups in the first phase and then we take other measures that are likely to need to be taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is Frant Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u40	Thank you. Look, we are basically now finally facing the structure of our economy. Because one week they represent self-employed because most economies represent micro and small and subcontracting companies, because we have known for years that larger companies have created profits. And this is some story we have to face, and I agree with what Matjaž and Miha said. I have often fought with my little revolutionaries when I said, you know, because most entrepreneurs in Slovenia are, if I use Mih's term, schmucks who have only some more credit on their backs, and we have to be aware of that and deal with it. Second. I went to the local station, I'm a natural mathematical technician, if I look at prices quickly, one of them is already going to war profit. Food prices need to be returned, I think we also need to decide whether this is 1 March or whatever and actually freeze them. In times of crisis, you have to go through what's called risk management. We have some structures of society that have to work: from stores, from fire extinguishers, from health institutions and so on. And we have to keep these people safe, too. We need to protect them ourselves, and we need to enable them to tour, reduce working hours, even some rest in between, and it seems to me that no one has actually taken this seriously. This is the task of policy beyond telling each of us to thank them, which of course we thank them. For many there was a crisis before this epidemic, because we are living on the political economy of the crisis. This will be some reflection that we will actually have to give together both in Slovenia and in the EU and elsewhere. And that's the way. That is, if I quote Alenka Zupančič again, that we must reconsider during the crisis, that after the crisis we will say what is unacceptable. And most of what Micah read is unacceptable. And we know that it is unacceptable and that we should say during the crisis and after the crisis that we do not want to have this anymore, that we will no longer have such an economic system. And that's the job of politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u41	Thank you very much. My colleague Vojko Starović has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Chairman. When I listen to these discussions today, I would suggest that we be cautious and considerate in these matters, in these laws, which we will still have to amend and adopt in this situation. Not all are self-employed or all companies or companies or institutions in the same situation. My colleague is talking about hairdressers and we're aware of that. But we also have a historical experience. That the profits have privatized, come on, let's go, we've collected all the profits. But when there's trouble, let's get this socialized. And now we are at the point of socialising some things. That's right, I agree, but those who are stronger, I tell you, some self-employed are damn strong, the commuter will survive this period without the slightest difficulty. And also a number of companies have accumulated and businesses today against the crisis years that followed the crisis in 2008, when all companies were over-indebted. I would agree with those who said in the debate that our treasury should also be kept. Even though they'll get help, we can't overdo it. When we take these measures and when we assign them, we need to look at the very different and varied structure of individuals or businesses, legal and natural persons involved in entrepreneurship, so that we do not get carried away, that we will let profits remain privatised and that we will socialise the losses. We don't have that kind of resources or wealth. There's something else we need to say. When I hear about the working class today, I find it difficult to listen because understanding the working class as a unit does not apply for many years. We also find it difficult to talk about capitalist as such. We have entrepreneurs, we have owners, but in all stock companies, there are many owners in all major companies. In fact, they are social entities that are run socially. They're run by professional administrations and so on. Some capitalists don't decide. And as for the working class, I would ask whether we who do not have our own businesses, whether we belong to the working class — we Members, for example, as well as other structures of employees, intellectual ones. I think this is a very socially fragmented matter. So I don't see this classic working class that we're discussing today. That's why we need to see big divorces here, like I said, both in businesses and in self-employed people. So I would advise a little on the current measures of reflection to help, to give intervention law, to get things out of the way, but let's be a little careful about spreading rights and scales so that we don't get by. Again, what I have said before is not as important financial capital as human capital. Technology and some things have gone so far as to look at the market capitalisation of some technology companies, we'll see that there's a tangible financial capital, the one that we can get, represents only 10%, and 90% is insensible capital, I'd say, is human, is intellectual. We need to be very careful about this, and this is becoming extremely important for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate on these two amendments. Would you like to do it again? Just a minute. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. Jani Prednik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u44	President, thank you for your word. A lot of things have already been said, and once again, just for closure. Some steps towards solving this problem have been taken, but in the SD we are confident, as in the LMŠ and the Levica, which we have proposed this amendment to completely exempt these contributions in order to make this a real step. All these esperies have fallen to such a level that even after three months of this delay, as proposed by the Government, they will not be able to pay back. Let us therefore reconsider, in the SD, that this is to be completely forgiven, equally to colleagues in Levica and LMŠ, and we also appeal to all other parliamentary groups to reconsider the vote and to take this step and to help these espions as is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Because I don't have much time, I'm just going to point out one more thing. I come from Maribor alone. We know that people from Maribor work in Austria. Let us now here three times guess who the Austrian employers will fire first in Magna and elsewhere. We will have a social atomic bomb in Maribor in autumn, so please kindly ask all members of the coalition, namely Desus, NSI, SMC and SDS, to consider supporting the amendment we have prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Indeed, today's situation is serious, and as a policy, we must demonstrate unity and coherence. I would like to stress, however, that we have missed a very large group of our fellow citizens, these are pensioners. If their children, their sons, their daughters and grandchildren have no income and are financially threatened, of course their parents will help them unselfishly and the burden of this crisis will again fall on the pensioners. I do not think it is right that the new government, including the party Desus, does not understand that they do not see them. In fact, it is a secret bringing Zujf into the account of the weakest in our society, and I certainly call upon everyone here to act for the benefit of all, from the labour-intensive population, who must be the one who creates that the burden will not be the same as in 2013 or before that will fall on the pensioner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u49	Thank you very much. There's a word for Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. I tried to be a good example, I didn't mean to come by, given that the situation is such that we warn people that we are getting as little company as possible, but yet here on the other hand, two days ago we are already very much parliamentary and we are trying to adopt intervention laws that are urgently needed. Colleagues from the opposition, I must respond that it really does not seem right for me to listen in such a situation both on the committee and today at the reading session of my colleague Kordiša, on the other hand, to the pyar action by the parties that we know have not been in the government for much longer, and have left a truly catastrophic situation that the current government must correct. I'm talking about health. Indeed, the current crisis in the economy is for the self-employed and, on the other hand, for economic societies. If a colleague from the Left has told some stories about what is happening to self-employed people at this time in this crisis, I must say that unfortunately, the situation is not different for companies as well. There, too, it draws attention to the issue of what will happen, how they should pay or provide money for employees’ salaries, if there is no cash flow. Here we need to be aware that the crisis is taking place everywhere. But the biggest crisis is currently in the area of health. The newly voted and approved government is really trying to fix the things that have arisen in this area. I am talking about the lack of protective masks, and we know which government has been generous to foreigners in this area and what situation we are currently facing. I'm also talking about the lack of other protective equipment. And, yes, as a colleague of the opposition said and not long ago from the coalition, the system will collapse – but if the government does not act, and, thank God, to act as it does now – first on the health system. If it collapses on the health system, then let's not imagine what kind of black scenarios will follow in this country. In view of the fact that the opposition's colleagues have not yet stated how constructive they will be, and given the situation, I really hope that they will be constructive in this crisis that we currently have. Responsibility must be exercised, also responsible for public finances. These intervention measures, which are currently ahead of us today, are the first intervention measures. The Prime Minister has also recently confirmed that the umbrella law for this area is still coming to prepare. On the other hand, let the government first solve the things that are urgently needed for people’s lives. I am talking about the situation being really, really alarming and let's take one step in this direction here in this House to show that we know that we can be united, that in such situations that our country is currently in, we can step together and confirm these intervention laws and do something good in this direction. Half a day we have coordinated our finances today with regard to the intervention laws that come later to be addressed, and there will also be positive consequences for the economy. In addition to the intervention law concerning salaries and contributions, there is also an intervention law on agriculture, justice, public administrations, etc. It is a specific time, a time of crisis, and that is why these laws are adopted by emergency procedure and I really appeal to my opposition colleagues to act constructively and support the government in these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u51	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u52	Thank you. My colleague, I don't know if you've been listening to our discussions. I think all the parliamentary groups have said they will support this law. Now if one of the Members sees some shortcomings, let's say that we know that the self-employed will not receive any income for three months and will not be able to live, it seems to me that every Member should have some moral note to warn. However, I think today we have said that we will support the law. And more than supporting this marriage, I don't think it's possible. But I guess we have a right to say what's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u53	Jani Prednik also has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. With all due respect, colleague, we also said we would support the marriage. Once again, we have called for reconsideration in this direction, and we have also said that we will be a constructive opposition, which does not mean that we should not debate and put our proposals on the agenda. So it's nothing destructive, just one more thought to all the parliamentary groups who don't support this amendment to think and maybe support it. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mrs Matej Ribič, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to talk a little faster now, so I won't run out of time like I did at the beginning. I'm going to go straight to the point where I've been writing down your comments. First of all, I'd really like to say hi to this. It's about state-of-the-art, your cooperation to support this law. I think we are all aware that measures are necessary. However, we are also aware that certain measures will still have to be taken. At first, you said that things were going too fast to wait for a day. But for this very reason, because we don't want to do things too quickly, certain things in today's intervention law are not covered. You also suggested that she be taken into society, institutions, humanitarian institutions. We agree that we must not forget these stakeholders, but the matter here is very complex. We talked about this on the board yesterday, too. This is a problem of double funding. Many societies, institutions, humanitarian institutions are already receiving funds from the state budget and it is very difficult to make a distinction between who is entitled to it and who is not. To this day, however, there was no way he could say how to do so. It is also proposed in the amendment to take care of them as well, but solutions in some way to curb this double funding, at least I have not seen. I would like to say here that this will be the subject of further discussion, subject of coordination. As has been said yesterday, it is the intention of each ministry to take care of its own societies, its public institutions, its humanitarian organisations, because they know them best and know their way of financing. Then there was also much talk about the exemption of contributions and that the postponement was not sufficient. I think that given that the delay is foreseen until 2022, there is still enough time for different measures. At this point, the government aims to relieve the financial burden on all self-employed. And the delay will relieve them financially, because now they will not have to think about whether they will have contributions or will not have any contributions this month. It's important that they don't burden themselves with it now. And that too will be the time if it is found that this is necessary to think in this direction as well as what you have proposed today. We must also be aware that the contributions are earmarked, the contributions are pension and disability insurance, health insurance, and then there is a need to ask what will happen to the pension age and what will happen to the health insurance of these persons. That's exactly why this thing is so complicated that we can't make it with today tomorrow, but, as I said, we have enough time to do it and not forget it. There was also a lot of talk today about thanking all health workers, all mail workers, the bank, the gas service, the food stores. However, one very large group of people was forgotten — all working in nursing homes. In nursing homes, not only are health workers employed and not only are health workers now employed, but that everything is running well and that they are taking care of the most vulnerable group in our country, they must come to work so employed in the kitchen, in the laundry, in the household, cleaners, physiotherapists, and working therapists. So that I too would like to thank them in this place on behalf of the government and in my personal name for their truly extraordinary self-sacrifice at this time. They are also home care workers, who are never mentioned, but also care for the most vulnerable population at this time, because we know that older people are most susceptible to this virus. As Member Horvath has already said, we understand and hear everything that has been said today. Things are being studied. But we also need to see that the system is sustainable. For the time being, the figures show that the system is sustainable to 40% of the funding, when the Ministry of Health is quarantined, and to 100% of the funding or subsidies by the State. Here I must say that I also agree with Mrs Divac Mirnik when she said that the system would collapse. I agree with that he's going to crash. But it will also collapse if we go into excessive measures or over-expenditure of public finances. Regarding the economy itself, it has been mentioned that we only support capitalists. In the law, I have once again looked at the law, in fact, the law says that these are economic societies, nowhere is it said that it will be supported, as it was said, only those who exploit their employees. It's about companies. It will help independent entrepreneurs. The other measures to be taken by the Government will also help the other stakeholders mentioned today. If things get too fast, forget about someone again very quickly. I think it's been forgotten in this system and today by farmers that no one has mentioned. Special measures are also being prepared for them to be included in this State aid scheme. Regarding the loss of a roof over the head and the loss of a home, I would like to stress here that the country has a sustainable system of social transfers. If it comes to people at home really have nothing to give for the pot and to lose their roof over their heads, there are other things and social transfers that will help these people. With regard to pensioners, I would like to point out that it is ensured that all transfers of pensioners will be made. Pensions will be paid, that money will be paid. So that somehow you forget about them, I can't agree. In this law, the point is that it is a matter of maintaining working relationships or preventing employers from sending their employees to the employment institution, in order to terminate them for business reasons and then, of course, be a burden to the State in its entirety. This is not about subsidising activities, but it is only about subsidising the maintenance of working relationships. With regard to the compensation itself, in order for everyone to have an 80% refund, as I said before, it is necessary to ensure that the system is sustainable. Only a higher force is governed by the Labour Relations Act, which has been adopted for quite some time. The Labour Relations Act is the one that says that the force is 50 % higher, and 80 % remain. There has also been a lot of talk today about how many independent entrepreneurs are turning to you because of this write-off and that this is not a sufficient measure. I also spoke to some independent entrepreneurs and also received some e-mails, where I have to say that reasonable messages, where it was said, were important to relieve me now that I do not need to worry about whether I will have contributions or not. And this is guaranteed in this law until 2022. So if necessary, we will see how long this crisis will take, how long the virus will be here with us, how long these measures will take, and then we will think from here on out. I think that this has been answered with regard to these amendments tabled by the opposition today. In fact, I would like to thank everyone once again that you understand the situation of supporting this law, and I understand that you have further proposals. As has been said on the committee yesterday, all these additional proposals will be considered, they will be examined, but unfortunately, tomorrow is not the case. From today to tomorrow it was possible to do what is on the table today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Of course, extraordinary times require extraordinary measures. We're not at the limit yet, but we're fighting two battles. There goes one. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u59	Your time is up. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the truly comprehensive answers, but I do not think I have been properly understood. I wanted to expose the distress of Slovenian citizens in the event that pensioners would have to take care of children who did not have the right income. Remember, a lot of pensioners are in nursing homes, for the disabled, they need help, and some pensioners have to co-finance home care. This matter has been completely forgotten, overlooked, even for objective reasons of urgency, so we should think about these matters somehow. There are also self-employed people here who somehow help pensioners with various services, as you mentioned correctly. I think this is an area that needs special attention. We know that home care is expensive, especially for pensioners who need a higher level of services, such as demented persons. In the event that children, i.e. active residents, are reduced income even in the light of the measures you are proposing, this issue will have to be managed in some way to avoid pensioners, these are our parents, grandparents who are left without the necessary care, as you yourself said, you have pointed out to many employees in these homes who are handing out unselfishly to this group of residents. So I would also like to appeal to this situation in which over 10,000, 20,000 of our fellow citizens, are in fact going indirectly to Zuyf. In the SAB, we are particularly committed to this vulnerable group of people, and we also appeal to you to remember them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Representative of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u62	In fact, what you are saying now is that I would like to explain or explain that if we are now being watched by chance and listened to by those who are in nursing homes, that if their relatives are not able to pay the bills of care, that is no reason for them to lose care. The financial situation was never the criteria for admission to the home of the elderly. Even when it comes to accepting how much money someone has and how much money they don't have, they can't watch. I understand what you're trying to say, but just to avoid the fact that the elderly don't think in their homes that if they don't pay for their care, they won't be able to pay for it, to calm them down, to stay in their homes where they are, and it won't affect that they have to go home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u63	Thank you very much. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u64	Yeah, replica. Maybe I didn't get it right. I'm concerned that, in fact, children are obliged to take care of their parents so that there is no conflict here between their children and their parents. We know that under no circumstances do parents want to be a burden on their children. However, if they are legally obliged to care for them, it may be that the home of the children for this part of the care they are obliged to co-finance is required. That is why I also appeal that we do not forget these matters, because this is very important to us in the SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u65	Anyone else want to discuss the amendments on which the debate is open? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus' parliamentary groups and the amendments of the Levica, LMŠ and SD. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, Nova Slovenije and Desus groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for an Act on Intervention Measures on the Market in Agricultural Farmers, Animals, Animals and Forestry in the framework of the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. There's nothing on the government's side here. He's coming. Madam Secretary, we're waiting for you. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Aleksandri Pivec, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u66	Dear President, distinguished other Members! Allow me to briefly present the basics of the law on intervention measures in the field of agriculture, forestry and nutrition. The law is adopted or proposed to ensure the smooth and adequate supply of food in the Republic of Slovenia as a result of the outbreak of contagious covid-19 disease and to prevent the spread of viral infection and the protection of human health and life. What is the content of the law that we are proposing? The law is essentially intended to provide an opportunity to limit trade in agricultural crops, food and animals intended for human consumption. Then we would also like to give the conditions for the establishment of a temporary farm operator in the event that the agricultural holding or its immediate family members is sick and then the work is suspended, but we want the farm work to be smooth in these cases, of course. The law also lays the groundwork for the temporary establishment of food warehouses and forest wood varieties in the event of disturbances on the market with goods until temporary suspension or any accumulation of larger quantities, where, of course, additional storage capacities will be urgently needed. The law also provides for restrictions on forest transport with forest varieties, and this is the result of larger summits in the forests, which will take place in the spring due to restocking and expansion of the basement. We then define veterinary, plant protection and plant seed measures and extend the mandate of the bodies of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber. What do we want with measures on the market for agricultural crops, food and animals? Above all, in the event of food shortages to any market instability arising as a result of restrictions on imports or exports, we would like to give the opportunity to restrict this traffic by means of additional orders proposed by the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, in agreement with the Ministry of the Economy, through food and food on the market. It also provides for a limit on the price of each agricultural crop in the entire food supply chain if this price relationship is disrupted by different market disturbances resulting from imports and exports or the inability of these import and export paths of food and food products. The appointment of a temporary farm manager in the event of a disease is based on a proposal from the operator of the agricultural holding, then appointed by the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Of course, we define exactly what tasks we can perform. These are urgent tasks and tasks on the farm, which could potentially result in a failure to produce food. As far as warehouses are concerned, I have said, it is temporary installation, use or maintenance of premises for the purpose of storing agricultural crops. With regard to forest wood varieties, it is also laid down that additional regulations may restrict trade with wood varieties in the event of market disturbances. Then we anticipate a number of veterinary measures, where we determine the possibility of changes in the vaccination deadlines and, above all, provide for different procedures for regular veterinary antennas and postmortem checks in the event that there is also a stalemate in different slaughterhouses. Here I am talking about some small slaughterhouses and, in the event that it is not possible to provide sufficient human resources, this is redirected to larger slaughterhouses where these checks are provided. This law also prolongs the validity of the certificates of all those carriers obtained for handling plant protection products and also provides for measures in the field of seed material of agricultural plants, since the supply of these must be smooth. Extension of the mandate of the KSGS authorities. We're just putting aside a time when the April elections should take place [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I'm afraid your time has run out. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. We have before us the proposal for a law on intervention measures on the market for agricultural crops, foodstuffs, animals and forest varieties. The reasons for the drafting and adoption of the law have already been discussed by my colleagues and colleagues today. The outbreak of covid-19 virus infection in China at the end of 2019 has also spread to the European Union region in February 2020 and, in particular, to the European Union countries bordered by the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal provides for the possibility of restricting the movement of agricultural food crops and animals for the purpose of human food in order to ensure adequate food supply in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The main solutions to this law in the field of agricultural, food and animal markets may be determined by the Minister responsible for agriculture, forestry and nutrition, in agreement with the Minister responsible for the economy, by the following measures: the restriction or prohibition of placing on the market of a group, individual agricultural production, food or animal for human consumption in the territory of another Member State of the European Union or export to third countries; the restriction or prohibition of placing on the market of a group, individual agricultural production, food or food on the territory of the Republic of Slovenia from the territory of another Member State of the European Union or imports from a third country; the restriction on the price of each agricultural crop, food or animal for human food to be determined on a unit of agricultural production, food or animal. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food may, by means of a decision on the administrative procedure, designate a temporary operator of the agricultural holding if the holder of the agricultural holding, the members of the farm or the employees of the farm are unable to produce agricultural crops or to carry out animal farming. The temporary manager shall, with his consent, propose to the mayor of the municipality in the area of which the holding is established, for which the temporary manager is designated, taking into account the order of possible operators set out in the proposal of the law. As a rule, the proposal is also consulted with the agricultural advisory service. The law also provides for a measure of temporary establishment, use or maintenance of a facility for the purpose of storing agricultural crops or foodstuffs. As a preventive measure to prevent the spread of the virus infection, it is also proposed to restrict or prohibit the placing on the market of forest wood varieties, crevices and wood pallets from the territory of another Member State of the European Union or imports from a third country. As an additional measure, it is also necessary to establish, use and maintain facilities for the purpose of storage of forest forest varieties cut in accordance with the law governing forests, in accordance with the decisions of the Institute for Forests on sanitary logging. The law also provides, inter alia, that the establishment of a facility for the purpose of storing agricultural crops or foodstuffs and facilities for the purpose of storing forest wood varieties in accordance with the proposal for a law of agreement between landowners or buildings or other landowners or facilities shall not be required, nor shall spatial acts, regulations governing the construction of buildings and other rules governing specific restrictions on the installation of buildings be applied. This action shall be decided by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food by a decision in the administrative procedure. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on intervention measures on the market for agricultural crops, foodstuffs, animals and forest varieties. We will also support the amendments tabled by the coalition groups so far. I know there's another amendment coming, and I think it's a party to the Left, and I think we're going to support it as well. So I look forward to saying that in these last days we have seen one great unity here in the national assembly of all political groups. So much for our side.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, will be presented by Nick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! In these difficult times, it is really important that we act quickly, but still considerately, and also with the possibility of defining the profession before the action. Unfortunately, this is increasingly difficult, since laws are coming to the National Assembly just before the laborers, making the in-depth debate almost impossible. The whole world is facing the pandemic dimensions of the new coronavirus. For this reason and in view of the situation in the country, Slovenia has also declared an epidemic. And just declaring the epidemic has also allowed the measures to be taken significantly faster than they are. But in our opinion, what a day too fast. While the fact that Slovenia has sufficient food reserves, both food and non-food, has been encouraging in recent days. We have a reserve of wheat, say, for six months and all the reserves for three months of uninterrupted supply of the whole country. The measures prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are urgently necessary. We agree with that, but the question is whether they are well thought out. This is already a question for the Minister and her team, as a serious professional debate on the measures could not be held. At this point, we will believe that all the measures have been carefully reconsidered and that the measures are in line with our rules as well as European rules. I'm not going to take them on board again. We've heard a lot of explanations from the Minister. It is particularly important that we today adopt a legal basis that will allow, if and when necessary, to limit a certain part of the import and export of agricultural crops and animals and forest varieties. Given that it is not possible to foresee the extent to which this new crown of the virus can be spread, it is clear, of course, that the worst possible scenario should also be foreseen in the adoption of all measures, but that optimism must nevertheless be maintained and shared with people and taken into account the reasonable aspect of proportionality. Such rigorous measures should also keep in mind the time that comes after that. To be fully responsible today, we must also give our concern for human health to care for the lives of people at a time when the virus will be defeated. People will also have to be our main concern. Questions that are also important for today and will be reflected in the long term are, for example, what import and export restrictions will mean for the free movement of goods after these measures have been abolished, what these measures will mean for Slovenian companies that import or export goods from the European Union that will be subject to restrictions and how these companies will be helped once these measures have been removed. The intervention law provides for restrictions on imports into the forest range market. We also understand the potential risk of infection due to personal contacts between drivers and manipulators in the forest wood-chain, but there is a similar danger in other areas where there is trans-shipment of different types of goods. With all these measures taken, we must therefore be aware that the effects of these measures will be felt long after the virus has been overcome. Therefore, all the measures that we will take today and in the coming weeks must be assessed through the prism of the day after that, so let us approach after covid-19. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Šarc, but once again I appeal to the Minister and Secretary of State and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take into account the principle of urgency and proportionality in the collection of measures and their activation and to include the expertise in the preparation. It is necessary to look at the period after, but we must be responsible for both today and tomorrow. Of course, the health of our citizens and citizens must come first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u72	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia, like the entire international community, has found itself in an extremely difficult situation affecting all areas of our lives, with the emergence and declared global pandemic of the crown of the virus. Therefore, these days it is not too often to point out that a high level of collective and individual responsibility is essential to limit the spread of infection. Citizens and citizens are the ones who, with responsible conduct and taking into account all measures, can also enable the health system to provide all those who need help and thus will not be burdened further. The number of people infected is increasing every day. The black scenario that the profession predicts when the health system collapses because of the high number of patients who are seriously ill, many of us do not even want to imagine, let alone experience. But the medical system isn't the only one in trouble. The food processing industry in Slovenia also faces disturbances and market instability due to obstacles to the free movement of goods and services due to the outbreak of the coronavirus. The current provision of food in Slovenia is not yet disrupted and we must do everything to keep it that way. A few days ago, the Government commissioned the Department of Freight Reserves to increase its supply reserves, which was to take place gradually within the next three months. Today, additional intervention measures have been found on our benches to regulate the transport of agricultural crops, food and animals mainly for human consumption, all in order to ensure sufficient food supply throughout the country. In general, food supply in all areas of the country is crucial in ensuring equal conditions for access to basic living good citizens and citizens. The provisions of the intervention law are consistent with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which allows restrictions on imports, exports and transit at a time or under conditions to ensure public safety, the protection of lives or in our case public health of residents and residents. The solutions proposed by the Ministry are aimed at restricting or prohibiting the placing on the market of crops, food or animal food in the territory of another Member State of the European Union or exports to third countries, restricting or prohibiting the placing on the market of crops, food or animal food in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia from the territory of another Member State of the European Union or imports from a third country, limiting the price of each agricultural crop, food or animal for human consumption, and in cases where farmers, farm members or farm workers are unable to produce agricultural crops due to the consequences of the coronavirus. In the latter case, the Ministry will be able to designate a temporary farm operator under certain conditions. In the Group of Social Democrats, we assess that the proposed solutions are necessary and in the right direction address the problems and problems that are already emerging in our country. However, in order not to pay enormous amounts to citizens and citizens for agricultural crops and foodstuffs, and to avoid taking advantage of some at the expense of the hardships, it is also imperative to limit the price of these goods. Let me stress, we strongly condemn the rise in the prices of basic living goods due to emergency situations and to any profit at all at the expense of people's hardships. At today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we will adopt the other intervention laws necessary to further mitigate the crisis situation in which we have come. Social Democrats want and appeal to all parliamentary groups that we are actively discussing with all measures, seeking any improvements that may be made and leaving any political opportunism behind. The Social Democrats' Group will support the Law on Intervention Measures on the Market for Agricultural Crops, Foods, Animals and Forest Variety. Good luck and stay healthy!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary! I hope you see me here in the twilight zone. Last week, more specifically on 12 March, an epidemic was declared in the Republic of Slovenia due to the spread of infections and the many negative consequences caused by the so-called coronavirus in our country. This is why the Government has also taken action by introducing a number of measures in various areas, including agriculture and forestry, food and food supply. We have also received from the Government a proposal for a law on intervention measures on the market for agricultural crops, foodstuffs, animals and forest varieties to limit such transport, i.e. imports and exports of agricultural crops, food and animals for the purpose of human consumption, as well as the price of each agricultural crop or food. In addition, larger storage facilities would also be provided for surplus food and timber, and farm operators would also be appointed if, for example, farm members would not be able to produce agricultural crops or to carry out animal farming as a result of the virus. These measures would provide sufficient food supply throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia during the epidemic. In the SMC Group, we therefore support the early adoption and introduction of this law with the aim of preventing any potentially difficult remedial consequences that could otherwise have arisen in preventing the provision of food to our citizens and citizens. We must be aware that, in view of the current situation on the market in agricultural crops and foodstuffs and on the basis of data on food supply in the Republic of Slovenia, in a relatively short period of time it is possible to expect a deficit in the supply of certain groups of agricultural products and foodstuffs, which otherwise represent basic foods for our population. It is therefore necessary to take immediate action in this area to ensure the nutritional safety of our citizens and citizens. Otherwise, there is no food shortage in Slovenia at this time, so we do not think that buying and stocking food for a longer period is necessary. However, there are problems with the supply of fresh fruit and vegetables from abroad. This is why we call on citizens and citizens to buy mainly Slovenian products and crops not only from the point of view of food safety, but also from the point of view of supporting Slovenian producers. Let us therefore, first of all, intervene on those foods that are still available. Slovenia has a high level of self-sustainment with numerous foods and its supply reserves provide basic necessities of life for more than three months. Since some representatives of the food processing industry in Slovenia have warned that, due to the outbreak of the coronavirus, they are facing disturbances and market instability due to obstacles to the free movement of goods in the internal market of the European Union and the market with third countries, the country will also ensure the emergency supply of the population during the epidemic by gradually increasing supply reserves, in particular permanent milk, milk powder, cheese, chicken meat and young cattle. These measures will ensure that people are not hungry or deprived of the opportunity to buy or provide food. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we will also unanimously support the draft law on intervention measures on the market for agricultural crops, foodstuffs, animals and forest varieties. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Violeta Tomič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, chairman. First of all, let me stress that in Levica we will support all the intervention measures that will go in the direction of tackling the epidemic and establishing normal situations as soon as possible. The government must be operational at this time, because fear alone does not help. The outbreak of the new Coronavirus covid-19 has just begun. That we were not prepared for it at all is as clear as the sky above us at the time of the stoppage of production. Now, however, urgent measures must be taken as soon as possible to minimise the spread of the virus and to minimise the time of the epidemic. In the event that this will last longer, additional measures must already be taken which will be applied if there is a serious shortage of medical equipment, medicines and food. One of these measures is the law that we are considering today. With the law before us, we will allow the Minister of Agriculture or the Minister to determine the prices of individual groups of food products, individual agricultural crops, food or food for humans and to restrict their import and export. By adopting our amendments, we would also limit the prices of seed and planting material. In addition, the Minister of Agriculture will be able to appoint a temporary farm manager if the farm owner and the members of the farm or the workers of the virus are no longer able to work on the farm. Here we have expressed some concerns on the powers and responsibilities of the temporary manager on the committee responsible. We believe that adequate fuses are needed here so that it would not do its own good and to the detriment of the agricultural economy, as the representative of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy has pointed out. The law also allows the rapid construction of temporary storage facilities for food and forest wood varieties, if necessary further to the new coronavirus epidemic, and gives the Ministry of Agriculture the opportunity to prohibit the import of forest forest varieties in order to limit the spread of the new coronavirus. In the Group of the Left, we will support the proposal of the law. We note, however, that the proposal for a law does not provide greater food security for the country, as stated in the opening part by the Government, and which should be a priority for the ministry. With this bill, it is only possible to adopt measures that, in the event of the outbreak of covid-19, and the law that we are adopting today, once again reminds us of the unscrupulous fact that our agricultural and food policy is something wrong, because if the epidemic persists for a long time, we will allow residents and residents access to the most urgent foods. One day the epidemic lasted, and we were soon expecting a manna of food. This, of course, is not the result of the coronavirus, but of the European Union's agricultural policy, which is written on the skin of the ambassadors from the countries of the European Centre. This combined with the practically non-existent national agricultural policy and the complete subordination of the ruling policy of the Brussels bureaucrat dictatorship has led to a slow but persistent decline in our self-sustainment. Solidarity and neighbourhood assistance are what has saved the Slovenian farmer and the countryside for centuries, and we will have to return to these unfortunately forgotten values. We need cooperation instead of competition. Instead of grassing subsidies and weeding vineyards, subsidies should target the revitalisation of cultivated agricultural areas and the construction of plants for more self-contained fruit and vegetables. Let us encourage the general food production, gardening and urban gardens, provide accessible seeds and orchards for all and provide a portal for the sale or exchange of surpluses. If ever, then it is time to sober up, to stand on our feet and, once the epidemic is over, at European Union level, to negotiate for a new perspective not only for larger subsidies, but also to point out that the common agricultural policy, such as it is, makes it impossible for us to develop, which would provide at least an approximately sustainable level of food security in the country at a time when it is necessary to close borders, that Slovenia is specific in small and fragmented farms and that we do not intend to compete with large ones, but require sustainable and appropriate treatment. Since each crisis is primarily an opportunity for change, we will support the proposal of the law in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In Slovenia we are witnessing an extraordinary situation. We cannot ask ourselves and discuss whether we will or will not adopt the proposed intervention laws, but we must step together and protect the people and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in these emergency situations. The purpose of the proposal for a law on intervention measures in the field of agriculture, forestry and nutrition is to ensure sufficient food care for the population in the Republic of Slovenia due to the consequences of the epidemic and infectious disease covid-19 or coronavirus, the prevention of viral infection, the protection of human health and life. Self-sustainment of food is of strategic importance for the country, so in Novi Slovenija we continue to strive and strive for better farming opportunities and integrated rural development. Unfortunately, we have neglected this important task in Slovenia and are becoming increasingly dependent on the purchase of food in other countries. In agriculture, we have already met with intervention laws for the eradication and mitigation of natural disasters, such as forgetfulness, glands, droughts, floods, sub-martials. All natural disasters are, we can say, a reminder of the situation in Slovenian agriculture today. Low self-sustainment especially in vegetables, fruit, and pork today is even more pronounced in these emergency situations. In order to ensure sufficient food supply for the population as far as possible during the duration of the epidemic, measures which are subject to the intervention law may be determined. They've already been listed today, so I'm not going to say it again. It is true, however, that the measures will last for a maximum of six months and that the proposal also provides for fines for infringements of the provisions. I have not heard this in my views today, so it makes sense for me to stress it here too. When the intervention law was announced by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we received many questions and thoughts in Novi Slovenije. We have been approached by many farmers, producers and land owners on the Italian and Croatian sides of the border. They have every reason to be concerned about border crossings and the processing of crops and vineyards. Following the assurances we have received from the Ministry today, the decree will not apply to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and citizens of the Republic of Italy of the two-owners who have their own land on both sides of the state border and carry out agricultural and agricultural works. There was a lot of uncertainty about the information that we had milk surpluses. Farmers were concerned that the price of milk would fall or that the purchase would decrease. According to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, there are no measures envisaged for dairy producers, as surpluses will focus on strengthening the supply reserves. According to her, there is also quite a demand from abroad for our Slovenian milk. We were also approached by Slovenian winemakers. They face a fall in wine sales, resulting in a fall in financial flows and a difficult financial situation for winemakers. The measures are jointly prepared by the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. Measures on the forest variety market are also a major challenge for Slovenia. We must be aware that our domestic production can range from 600 cubic metres of cut wood only to 2 million cubic metres of wood; the rest is exported. Under conditions such as these today, the stepmother's attitude towards our only natural wealth, which is not oil, appears to be wood, and there has been virtually nothing done in this area since 2014. It is time to step together, seek and take solutions and ensure security, freedom and justice for our citizens and citizens. We should be aware of the importance of self-sustainment, agricultural land values and food production. The state is sovereign as much as it can provide food to its citizens. In Novi Slovenija we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Party's parliamentary group, Alenka Bratušek, will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u80	Thank you, President. Your Honor! The proposed law regulates the possibility of restricting the movement of agricultural crops, foodstuffs and animals for the purpose of human food in order to ensure adequate food supply in the Republic of Slovenia. Agriculture is an economic activity of particular social importance mainly due to its multi-purpose role. The basic task of agriculture is to produce safe and quality food and to provide food for the population. The food processing industry in Slovenia is coping with disturbances and market instability due to obstacles to the free movement of goods and services, capital and persons on the European Union and third countries' single internal market. Slovenia has a high level of self-sustainment, which we must be very proud of, especially in the area of milk, dairy products, meat and meat products. It is therefore appropriate to strengthen the additional quantities of supply reserves for the smooth supply of these products to the population during the epidemic. Specific measures and restrictions on the welfare of citizens and economies are necessary, but in the SAB Group we are concerned that the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, in accordance with the proposal for a law, may impose restrictions on the transport of agricultural crops, foodstuffs and animals for the purpose of human food. We agree that it will also be able to limit the price of each agricultural crop, food or animal for human food. This also calls on citizens and citizens to serve the available foods during these days, but they do not make more stocks, as there will be no shortage of food supplies. Slovenia has no problems in the field of meat. In the event of a disturbance in the supply of pig meat, it will be necessary to use chicken and beef. We call on citizens and citizens to strengthen their domestic stocks only in order to hold back as little as possible from trade. We know that the pressure of people in such uncertain events is great and often reflects on excessive purchases of food supplies, so once again we stress that food supplies are sufficient, according to the competent authorities. Market measures in agriculture are not uncommon. Most often they are linked to a specific programming period and are carried out for several years or are bound to a particular product and carried out periodically. They are in force in the areas of milk and milk products, vineyards and wineries, beekeeping, school meals and external trade. These include temporary emergency measures on the market for fresh fruit and vegetables. An important mechanism of support for agriculture is State aid measures aimed at agricultural economies which, due to the incapacity to work, animal disease or natural disasters, have suffered a loss of income. Unfortunately, this time in a situation that we need to implement different market measures, measures that will continue to ensure the smooth supply of food to the population while preventing the spread of new infections. Among the proposed measures in the area of the temporary manager of the agricultural holding, which measure proposes that if farm members or farm workers are unable to work because of the virus, a temporary manager with the same rights and duties as the operator of the agricultural holding will be proposed. We believe that this measure may cause inconvenience for agricultural operators. It is proposed to limit or prohibit the placing on the market of forest wood varieties, choppers and wood pellets from areas of other EU members or imports from a third country, which we welcome in the SAB Group, as Slovenia is a country with a strong wood industry. The aim of all proposed measures is to ensure the smooth supply of food for the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia during the duration of the consequences of the new coronavirus epidemic on the forest range market and to prevent the introduction of new infections. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose these measures, but we will support them for the benefit of citizens and citizens and economies. Thank you and happy Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Des Group will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The bill before us contains important intervention measures in the field of the market for agricultural products, foodstuffs and animals with the aim of ensuring the smooth supply of food for residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia during the duration of the consequences of the Coronavirus epidemic. It also introduces measures in the field of the forest range market to prevent the introduction of the virus in Slovenia and to preserve health and human life. The measures adopted in Slovenia recently: closing schools, kindergartens, trade, with the exception of food, banning organised events, restricting border crossings, measures at airports and many others have unfortunately not significantly reduced the spread of viral infection. How quickly the Coronavirus spreads in both Slovenia and in other countries we are eloquently told about the infected, sick and unfortunately also the dead. Individual cities, landscapes and countries are taking very similar measures as we are taking these days in our country. There are increasing calls and calls for citizens and citizens, both by healthcare professionals and politicians, to respect and take into account the measures taken to follow further instructions. Only in this way can we help ourselves and all around us. We can be concerned about the situation in our neighbouring country, and all efforts must be made to ensure that such a medical scenario does not happen to us. It must be said that the Law on Intervention Measures is temporary and regulates the country's response in crisis situations. The question arises how the crisis will affect international commodity flows and the supply of the population, not least how, after improving the situation, Slovenian producers present in foreign markets will be helped. There must be a lot of questions these days. You need to take it one step at a time. However, first of all, it is necessary to ensure the smooth provision of food in Slovenia, and it is up to us to take such measures as will be crucial in this area because of the food security of the people. The content of the intervention law thus provides for the possibility of restricting trade in agricultural crops, food or animal products, the restriction or prohibition of the export or import of foodstuffs, the regulation of prices of agricultural crops and foodstuffs, the establishment of a temporary manager of the agricultural holding, the temporary establishment of food warehouses and forest wood varieties, veterinary measures, plant protection products and seed materials of agricultural plants, and the extension of the mandate of the bodies of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia operating public services in the field of agriculture until November 2020. We will, of course, support the Law on Intervention Measures in the Member State, and we will also support the proposed amendments of the coalition, as well as the amendment of the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and on the amendments tabled. Since the amendments of the Left Group to Articles 2 and 7 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I am putting to the debate Articles 2 and 7 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greeting, distinguished Madam Minister, colleague, colleague! I'll be very short. Since we are a constructive opposition in the LMŠ, we welcome all the measures envisaged by the law because they are necessary. We hope that they will also be responsibly activated when this is necessary and here, Minister, we trust you to do so at the right time. Now maybe just one more appeal to the government. I really appeal to the Government to promote self-care among people in parallel with all these measures. Why? If we are aware of this or not, these people are in fact our destiny, so the food grower in Slovenia should become our pride and someone who is highly valued. And I'm not going to talk now about what all the poor defenses have to endure, so let's be aware that this is a moment when we can fall like people when we can fall like the state. So, as we say, we will support things, and we hope that those worst scenarios will not happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I am very grateful to you for the hint that you will support our amendment. As you know, Levica actively participated in the debate yesterday on the parental committee and made quite a few good proposals, which we will continue to develop in the course of the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, because everything does not go into this law. If only you would allow me to read for those who do not see this amendment, to add to Article 2 in the first paragraph a limit on the price of seed, seed and planting material. With this proposed amendment, we give the Government the opportunity to limit the prices of agricultural crops, foodstuffs or animals to seed, seed and planting material. For if we limit only farmers' selling prices and seed prices can go to heaven, then it can happen at an extreme stage, that the farmer has absolutely nothing to give for seed material more than then it gets after the sale of crops, therefore it is necessary to protect it. This is proposed in order to prevent unjustified price increases in these materials, which may also affect the final price of products which the Government can limit under this law. In addition, these materials represent a key raw material in food production for the population and are therefore a key part of the emergency food supply. We know that in every crisis, the seller raises prices. Unfortunately, we already see that food prices, protective masks are rising, and I always stress that those who will have food and water in the future will be the ruler of the world. Unfortunately, times like this are coming. I regret again and again that we gave concessions to our water resources, say Costela, in my White Land we gave some Arab magnate, so last week we also sold the Semenary and I think we have to be responsible. Mr Šabeder, Minister of the former government, was the last director of Semenarna Ljubljana, who said that there is no Slovenian food without Slovenian seeds and that there is no self-sustainment without Slovenian food. That is why the Slovenian seed and sometimes they said in laughter, the slogan was our seed, your success«, Semenarne Ljubljana, when he was that sower, I even know a gentleman who was a model for this sower. But that was really our pride. And we need to keep the seed bank safe. Spring and, above all, farmers, gardeners and all those who grow food must be given access to seeds and also to seedlings, after domestic flancs which cannot go to heaven, must be limited. Thus, in the first paragraph of Article 7, we add the text “or limit the price of seed, seed and planting material”. In short, we set a limit from the beginning of the seed chain to the end of the crop. However, let me stress that it is important that we really realize in this crisis today how important it is to be self-sustaining. The country is supposed to start thinking more about subsidies for greenhouses, for water collectors, for composters. I have always been disturbed, and I have been quite critical of the former Minister of the Jews, because our self-care with fruit and vegetables is very low and now it is time to finally redirect the subsidies that we previously had for grassing, lawns or even cutting vineyards, into real things, to revitalising the cultivated agricultural areas and to raising self-care, is said to be vegetable and similar things. Even to simplify procedures, because at the board meeting we were talking about geothermal energy being consumed cascadingly. Slovenia is lucky, we have no oil, we have no gold, we have no rich ore, which is in fact our happiness, because otherwise we would be targets of gods of other attacks, but we have geothermal energy. This is a wonderful opportunity to redirect our way of thinking. So far, we have only listened to the European directives, and now we put on the European Union and Brussels the specifics of Slovenia, which has small fragmented farms, let us present this to them and demand that they take our specifics into account so that we can be more self-sustaining. Thank you for your support for the amendment, where we will protect the seeds, seedlings, seedlings and so on, so that farmers will not be able to afford these basic work aids. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. Nick Prebil has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll be very brief. As the colleague said, we support measures to improve the current situation. However, I am of the opinion that whether we are talking about these measures, those which have been at the previous point and those who are still coming, it is essential that we discuss them and that we also define the profession or those who will be directly touched by them, since it is only in this way that we can reach this so-called unity and assistance to each other. I sincerely hope that the situation we have will calm down as soon as possible, but in the end we will learn from all this together, that is, that quality home food is important and that it is important that we respect agriculture and invest in it all the time, not only when the crisis occurs. Above all, to increase this self-sustainment of Slovenia. We know that economic aid will be necessary in almost all areas and that we can somehow help Slovenian producers. And we can offer this assistance in the context of buying as much food or food as possible, which is produced in Slovenia. I think that this is a measure that can help Slovenian food producers, and above all that somehow increases the awareness that the provision of quality and homemade food is something that not everyone can afford, so we need to maintain it and be proud of it in particular. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Get Franz Breznik ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. In the SAB Group, we support all the efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure the smooth supply of food products. I would like to respond to some of the statements made by my speakers. Self - care is, of course, very important. My forerunners have highlighted the use of geothermal energy. I would like to say that with the geothermal energy available to us, we have a huge amount of waste energy from the Termoelectrica Šostanj, from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, from the Termoelectrica Ljubljana, from various co-incineration plants. This is essentially the location of the facilities where the government decree could provide me with the use of this waste heat. As far as locally produced food is concerned, this needs to be supported, but we must be aware that climate change is also coming. Today we face the virus, next time there will be a financial crisis, we can also expect climate change and therefore we will have to adapt agriculture. This includes the introduction of technologies such as hydroponics, the production of vegetables and other crops in a controlled atmosphere without the need to add herbicides. However, I would like to take this opportunity to take advantage of the fact that we witnessed increased or possibly even spastic purchases, panicky purchases of food and vegetables last week. We know that, above all, unprocessed vegetables have a limited duration. I urge citizens not to throw away these vegetables, the fruit they may have purchased in a panic in excess of quantity, but to process it according to the recipe of our grandparents. Remember, our old parents were preparing a winter meal and thus ensuring food security, and we need to ensure that this food that we have purchased in excess today is not wasted and that we use one of the known ways of preserving this food. This is a way of dealing responsibly with food, as well as possible dealing with the current short-term shortages of any food that may occur under certain conditions of limited movement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Franz Breznik has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I don't have much time available, I could just say that we have before us an intervention law on agricultural crops, food, animals and forest varieties. This crisis, which we are currently experiencing, will rediscover the value system, I would say, a large part of the world. For the first time, we will be aware of what are pressing human needs and will have to return to its essence in some matters. Here, too, I should agree with a colleague who previously talked about water about food, which is the basis for existence. I feel somehow at least at some point responsible for certain matters as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. All those of you who have now opened up some debates before me have had a meeting almost a year ago where we have been talking about problems outside the season. Slovenia has such an climate that it also has winter, and Slovenia, I must say, has almost zero production of vegetables and fruits outside the season. We have a few small businesses, and that's a big problem. Self-sustainment in agriculture, as you know, is almost 40%, which is not negligible in relation to some countries. But given what you've been saying, last year we also opened this topic for glassmakers, especially that the bottles are heated with geothermal energy, so that our competitive advantage is in geothermal energy. Glasses are known all over the world, known by the Netherlands. Our great advantage is that the Netherlands has no geothermal potential and Slovenia does. And just in the poorest part, I could say, Slovenia. That's why it's a thought about a new branch of agriculture, some call it agribusiness, but today it's possible for an entire species, I would say, technology to solve a number of mankind's problems, and we can eradicate hunger. Many technologies also enable people to survive in Africa. I have repeatedly stressed, right in the face of this crisis, that these people need to be given technologies to learn how to fish, as they say, and we can solve a lot of problems today. It is also interesting that at one of the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, when we had a second meeting on the use of geothermal energy in the case of energy, not just agriculture and other industries, one of the owners of one company said that it was interesting for the Dutch to even use excess CO2 from their thermal power plants. And this CO2 is literally then taken to the greenhouses, where it allows additional accelerated photosynthesis and growth of plants, fruits and everything else they produce. So we can produce any minus in our plus. I think that after this crisis, Slovenia will need a major consideration of how to proceed in this green story. So in a green transition, the world can offer an example of smart practices. Right now, as we adopt these intervention laws, I hope that this crisis will pass, hopefully, within a month or two, and then I think that some development cycle of Slovenia is absolutely necessary. We must take advantage of all the naturalities, all the knowledge, all the technologies that can bring us to be one pilot country, a country that we will also be proud of in this area of agriculture. My next thought is also important – the profession of a farmer, whether the farmer will finally become a valued profession in Slovenia. Slovenian farmer is one of the most respected professions in my opinion these days. I want the Slovenian farmer to become this after this crisis. And that every part of the Slovenian land, which is unprocessed, people will speed up to see that everything is worth it. So far, every other word in Slovenia is not worth it. But when such a crisis comes, we find that everything is worth it, and that the self-sustainment of Slovenia in the field of food must be a strategic element in the country's competitiveness in this respect of Slovenia. This must be a strategic reflection, because, as we now see in these days, when certain transport routes close, when part of European and global logistics closes, we can see how we are dependent and how we have become dependent in recent decades also on international companies, organisations, especially in those sectors where we do not need this dependence. What we can produce ourselves, we can produce ourselves, and it is precisely such policies that we must accelerate such industries in the coming months after this crisis. But in this debate only because I don't have much time, I would say another thought. On the table I received a number of measures proposed by the Slovenian People's Party. I agree with a lot of people. They proposed administrative burdens on farmers, the abolition of tax warehouses from the agricultural economy, the establishment of a system of pricing, etc. I agree, and I can also say that all these things will be resolved rapidly after this crisis. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we presented a number of solutions, proposals, on these problems of Slovenian agriculture, especially those of small farms with numerous administrative obstacles. When this crisis is over, we will take these problems seriously. It's my responsibility, and I think the minister will say something about it. We are aware of these problems, but this intervention law and the importance of this intervention law is primarily to ensure market stability in the short term. I repeat, in the short term. As you know, many solutions are also tied up there by the middle of this year or by the end of the year. Serious measures in favour of farmers to have as few administrations as possible and to deal more with agriculture will be followed. As I can see, what is now between us and this National Assembly, I hope that such coherence after this crisis will continue in the adoption of a number of laws that will benefit the Slovenian farmer, Slovenian agriculture, and the rise in production. That Slovenia can also become an exporter in high-quality agricultural crops in the coming years to show these good practices that we have discussed on the Committee and that we will continue to talk about. On this occasion, I also thank the Minister of Agriculture, who was among the first in a good year ago, I am still in the opposition, which supported precisely this technology and was aware of these opportunities that we have to introduce 21st century agriculture and to exploit all the natural potentials that this country has. On this occasion, I would also like to thank all colleagues from the various parliamentary groups here in Parliament for their support both in the Committee on Agriculture and today in the National Assembly. All other measures, which must go to the benefit of the Slovenian farmer, who is not in this intervention law, because the purpose of the intervention law, as I said, is to save short-term stability on the market, will be followed. I hope that we will have the time and opportunity to have this coalition for at least two years and that in these two years we will also be able to take measures for the Slovenian farmer to provide the basis for the Slovenian farmer to become a farmer, to become a part of the economic sector and to be a member of the Slovenian farmer's profession, as he once was in this part of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would just like to warn you that the Left has tabled two amendments to Article 2. It's the second one that's been fixed. So that we don't mistreat him and vote on him. If I refer to the words of the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. In Levi, we are very well aware that without a farmer there is no food, and without food there is no life. And it's something more important that we sort out the status of the farmer and everything that's involved. I would like to remind you that the virus also threatens farmers selling in markets, that something will have to be done about it. And since I have a few more minutes, I would also like to touch that question. We were talking about the so-called surplus stock exchange, a portal that I very much welcome, which would be through KGZ. I think it is right that everyone who can produce food either in urban gardens or in vegetable gardens or anywhere, because today we do not realize that trade, wholesales are becoming more empty, especially empty fruits and vegetables. However, delivery is also under threat. We know the trucks were standing at the border, and that, unfortunately, if this isolation is going to last, it's going to be for a while. Most of the fruit and vegetables were imported from Italy. The drivers have been in a very difficult situation, and I personally am very grateful that they have done their job with dignity. But when I went to buy some products, I noticed the fact that I was really running away, and it's that traders who were forced to work don't have protective masks, not gloves. No one's testing the mass of people coming to the store. And then these merchants go home and probably have some elderly people or little children at home. Let us protect people who need to work so that we can function normally. When we enter the space and light the light, it seems to us that it is only reasonable that the light burns. But someone's behind it. Thank them. Civil initiative, the eco-initiation initiative Ekoca has also given a very good initiative on local self-sustainment, because when transport does not work, we need to find out differently. In the magazine Zarja already 2015, it was proposed that the firehouses, which we have a thousand 340 or so, would be some kind of a collection, because they have all the infrastructure, they have benches, they also have tables and rooms where everyone, including an old mom, could bring in crops that could either be traded or sold. Yes, of course, firefighters are so overloaded, but I think that against payment, there could always be one on call who could lead this exchange. It is now spring and it is also time to direct farmers to sowing dedicated crops for kindergartens, schools, nursing homes, and hospitals. If the farmer knows what's going to go into the ransom, he'll be more likely to sow it. Now we need these innovative projects and I am looking forward to working on these changes for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that there is no interest, so I am concluding the debate on the amendment of the left-wing Group to Articles 2 and 7. I am putting to the debate Article 3a and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, New Slovenia and Desus groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, New Slovenia and Desus parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I find that no, so I am closing the debate on this amendment. Would you like a word from the government? If he doesn't want to, I'll finish the point. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u96	I would like to give some explanations or answers to those initiatives and questions that you have addressed to me. Initially, I would like to point out that we are all very well aware of the importance of agriculture, the agricultural sector, and that this is the key to ensuring that the Slovenian population is safe to the extent to which the country and those who produce food can do so. At the same time, this makes us very sensitized and also shows how much we depend on access to foreign markets for food products in some important areas. Therefore, I am pleased that your support goes in the direction of these restrictions, which we foresee by law. However, I would like to point out that the LMŠ Group has raised the question of what will be the limits or what will be the impact of these restrictions or measures after the end of this crisis, or of this period in which we are in the process of regulating only the possibilities for restrictions related to the agricultural crop market. The law does not provide for any restrictions, but in view of monitoring the market situation and the perceived potential disturbances or threats to any of the areas of food supply, it is then possible to order them by additional orders. Therefore, in the event that there is either a shortage of food groups or too many quantities, they shall then be re-routed by additional orders. As already mentioned today, additional quantities and surpluses have been discussed by Mrs Iva Dimic, first of all we are redirecting to strengthening the supply reserves, with which we would then like to provide smooth supply in the event that these stocks need to be activated. Of course, we strengthen them first in those areas where these reserves for a shorter period of time are due to the short duration of the sustainability of these products and, as a result, if too much is to begin, I speak mainly in the area of meat, meat and milk supplies. As far as price constraints are concerned, we thought it appropriate to put this measure on the table, because we have already seen attempts at certain dumped prices on the market, including attempts at different profitable opportunities. At this point we do not yet have to react, but we do well to be prepared to reach out to a greater extent in the event that this happens by setting price limits for individual food products. In the whole matter, particular attention should be paid to the whole supply chain, but be careful not to lose any of the links. If this occurs, it is necessary to react correctly and then to seek either domestic suppliers or to interfere in this case with price adjustment. You've also highlighted the area of self-sustainment. Yes, it is true that this law does not provide greater food security in general. I think it was exposed to the Left. Surely, however, at the moment of any failure or shortage, this law can increase food safety in the event of food shortages, I will be very specific that one of the producers does not prioritise directing its food products to foreign markets, but in the event that they detect the threat of a shortage of any of the product groups on the domestic market, we limit these exports and direct these products to the domestic market. So in some ways, however, we can also make sure that food supply is smoother and therefore food security is greater. I must also say at this point that we are monitoring at the daily level whether there are any disturbances in the food supply system. We daily prepare reports and record disruptions or predictions that they could occur in the coming days. We are preparing contingency scenarios and can therefore, with great certainty, ensure that these disturbances do not occur and that we are prepared for them. As regards the subsidy policy mentioned. Yes, we are strongly directing the subsidy policy towards strengthening new policies, especially plant production. It is true that we are most at risk in the area of plant production, so in this context I also consider all those modern technological approaches, planters, geothermal energy, over-heat use, because at these moments Slovenia also recognizes this threat that we will experience the most rapid loss in the field of fruit and vegetables if our borders are closed. Mrs Iva Dimic also pointed out the consequences after this period, when we will come from this period, which has been declared an epidemic, or is a kind of crisis period, that different sectors, winemakers, are also addressing them. I am confident that all sectors will address us in a short time, because these failures will be detected in all areas. In the coming days, weeks, months, we will therefore have to deal with how to mitigate the consequences that have arisen during this period. Although I must point out that, given that we are interfering with restrictions on movement and also on the work of different groups at these times, we are doing our best, because this is essential for food security and for uninterrupted care, that we exempt farmers and the food processing industry from all these regulations. Here, too, is my sincere thanks – we have also given it to all farmers from the Ministry – who, given that at these moments we all act very self-protectively and stay away from the crowds of people, if it is possible to isolate them in some family environments, farmers are working smoothly, also the food industry and thus make sure that we still walk smoothly in trade and serve food products there. So, with all due respect, I hope that all of Slovenia recognizes this important role of farmers, agriculture and that they must work smoothly even in circumstances that are not most suitable for this. The question was also raised or mentioned how to act at these times in order to sell products on the market as easily as possible. I also very much welcome the Ekoca initiative, but, as has already been mentioned, we have also referred it to fire companies or associations. It is true that these groups are also extremely busy at this time, so we have also tried to look for some reserve scenarios, a stock exchange has been set up, in cooperation with the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. We are also directing all producers who can now offer their food to the market, while also encouraging demand, because they are still cooking in larger public institutions, hospitals, police, the military to use purchases via this online market. These online purchases also limit the possibility of spreading the infection, as there is no direct contact with people. We also asked for a larger promotion campaign. I must say that the media also responded, came across the street and we will make this stock exchange and also generally purchases, calls for the purchase of Slovenian food, Slovenian food products worked through those media houses that responded. At the same time, also through all online social networks, we strongly urge people to buy Slovenian food, not only because it is accessible at these times, but also because we want to give support to those who are actually working in difficult circumstances and conditions and also in danger of producing this food smoothly. At the same time, we have opened a 24-hour duty station at the Ministry, where we also provide all the answers to questions about the possible failures that are taking place both in the field of subsidy applications, in the field of various calls and also in the field of activities carried out by our veterinary, inspection and service providers. Thus, 24 hours a day farmers and all who are interested in anything in connection with our department can get all those explanations at the on-call number and e-mail address that the work would be as smooth as possible and that the food supply in Slovenia would be smooth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is the second defence of the proposed act on temporary measures in connection with the judicial, administrative and other public legal matters for the control of the spread of communicable sars-cov-2 (Covide-19) within the framework of the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags. Lilliani Kozlovich, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u98	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! Even in these difficult times, when everyone somehow takes care of himself and his fellowmen, the Government has a responsibility to take care of much wider, and also a great responsibility to take care of all citizens and all citizens in particular, and to cover all areas where urgent measures need to be taken. These areas clearly include judicial cases, administrative cases, other public law cases and the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The purpose of this law is to prevent the spread of viral infection, to protect the life and health of people, to establish a legal basis on which the judicial authorities, administrative authorities, local communities and other public authorities may act in urgent cases and to regulate the exercise of rights and obligations in a legally appropriate manner to ensure that those who are necessary for people and for society as a whole are carried out. These measures will be temporary. It will last for as long as the reasons are, and it will last for as long as one. Seven. 2020. Let's see what these measures are. In judicial matters, the time limits for the enforcement of the parties and all other deadlines do not run in judicial matters. However, this does not apply to cases which are considered necessary. We give the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia the authority to exempt any of these cases, which are so far identified as necessary, from finding that there is no need for urgent consideration. In any event, however, it is not necessary to consider investigations and prosecutions in criminal cases in which the accused is deprived of his or her liberty, if in criminal cases there is a foreigner who does not reside in the Republic of Slovenia, in enforcement cases relating to the upbringing and protection of children and maintenance obligations arising from the law, as well as in unfair cases concerning the detention of persons in psychiatric health organisations. In the field of administrative matters, other public administrative and criminal matters, time limits shall also not run except in matters where there is a risk to human life and health, to public order and peace, to public security, to property of greater value if the decision in the matter depends on the survival of the party and if the decision depends on the exercise of other rights. A number of other measures are in place to follow the purpose of the law. In the field of notary offices, it was also necessary to appoint the President of the Notary Chamber of Slovenia to have the power to introduce temporary measures for the limited operation of notary offices and, if necessary, only the Minister or Minister of Justice could decide on this matter. In the public and also in the committee, the most attention was paid to the temporary measures being introduced in the field of enforcement of criminal sanctions. In this section, the law introduces temporary changes regarding the call for convicts to stay in prison, transfer of convicts, suspension of sentences and early release. Why are these measures necessary? We have known for a long time that Slovenian prisons are too busy. The Republic of Slovenia is paying damages due to inadequate conditions and the number of judicial officers is too low, which does not provide adequate security. We have also put in place proportionate measures to prevent the spread of the infection and to reduce the benefits for closed persons to the already difficult situation currently in these systems. The day-to-day situation shows that these provisional measures, too, have been taken. Restricting contact with the property and thus linking it with the outside world, and realizing that we already have 8 people in one institution who are in isolation, which means that we have to provide them with a special space, means a certain unrest. We want to do everything we can to prevent the spread of infections and ensure effective isolation of the suspected infection case, but in fact we cannot do so if we now have rooms in each room after eight people. Therefore, the proposal for an intervention law has complemented the measures, I stress that we have complemented the measures already in force. The first measure is therefore the call for convictions to be suspended. Here is an opportunity for the court to call the persons who are now at large later. With regard to the suspension of the sentence, I should stress that a safety assessment is extremely important. Interrupt will take place here [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u99	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, we're out of time. The bill was examined by the Justice Committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Dean Kaloh.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u100	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, fellow Members, Members and, of course, Slovenian citizens, a nice greeting! Today we have before us a proposal for a law on temporary measures in relation to judicial, administrative and other public matters to control the spread of communicable diseases SARS-COV-2, in short form covid-19, which we are taking under urgent procedure. The outbreak of covid-19 virus infection in China at the end of 2019 also spread to other European Union countries, in particular those bordering the Republic of Slovenia. In Europe, neighbouring Italy is a true epicenter of this virus and the consequences are also strongly reflected in the Republic of Slovenia, where it was 12. 3rd Plague Proclamated. The basis for the declaration of the epidemic is the expert opinion of the National Institute for Public Health. The draft law lays down temporary measures aimed at preventing the spread of viral infection, the protection of human health and the lives of people and ensuring the functioning of individual national authorities, local authorities and public authorities, and the provision and exercise of rights and obligations in the field of judicial matters, administrative matters and other public matters. It is indicated that it is essential to prevent or reduce the adverse effects of the spread of covid-19 infectious disease. Measures in the field of judicial matters: the retention of the deadlines runs in the same way as during the period of judicial leave; the upgrading of the provisions of Article 83a of the Law on Courts and so on, due to the state of the adoption of this proposal by law, the solution of the possibilities that the President of the Supreme Court has, in addition to ensuring the smooth functioning of the judiciary, must also ensure that such measures are taken to prevent the spread of viral infection, the protection of health and the lives of people and the possibility of hearing the detained person via videoconference. Measures in the field of legal and other public legal matters: there is also a similar possibility of delaying deadlines, a legal basis for restricting the operation of state authorities and other administrative authorities and a legal basis for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take additional measures necessary to prevent the spread of viral infection. Measures in the field of the enforcement of criminal sanctions aim to ensure that the proposed additional legal basis for the institutions for the prosecution of sentences, the relocation of convicts, the suspension of sentences and the early release of directors of institutions for the cessation of prison sentences allow for a more effective response to the challenges posed by them at the time of the outbreak of viral infection. As we have already heard, the measure is also in the field of the operation of notary offices, which provide a legal basis for the President of the Notary Chamber of Slovenia to take temporary measures in relation to the operation of notary offices, which relate in particular to the manner or limitations of the implementation of official reception hours. As it is said, the measures in the proposal are provisional and their duration is limited as they apply only for a period until the reasons for them have ceased, as determined by the Government by a decision published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia but for a maximum period of time until 1 July 2020. Let me remind you that the Justice Committee gave a green light to the bill yesterday, and almost without exception on the Committee, it has been assessed that the proposed law is, at this point in time, in fact and very necessary. Nor did the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly have any comments on the proposed amendments to the coalition. It is clear that in the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party we support the proposal of the law in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the Marjan Sarca Group will be presented by Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Today, when all of us and each of us are dealing in our own way with a virus that has crippled our public and social lives, we are all aware that some of the vital functions of the country need to be limited in operation in order to help prevent the spread of the virus. Otherwise, the basic activities of our country cannot be completely excluded, as they are literally dependent on the existence or absence of a rule of law, but that some are carried out to a limited extent. When determining such safety-restriction measures, account should be taken of the relationship between their effectiveness and their necessity or proportionality. Of course, the health and safety of our citizens are paramount. In the LMŠ Group, most of the measures provided for by the law are welcomed. In our view, these measures are necessary to try to curb the spread of the virus in this way as well, while ensuring that our citizens do not lose their procedural or material rights, both in judicial and administrative matters. Although the initial proposal of the law has had a number of formal shortcomings that we have also seen in our parliamentary group, we are pleased that the drafter of the law has taken full account of the recommendations and comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and thus addressed these shortcomings. Some of the measures already taken to prevent the spread of the virus could to some extent affect the rights of our citizens, and it is therefore one of the most logical steps to take a measure to freeze the course of all judicial and administrative deadlines. This makes it possible in practice to ensure that an individual does not lose his procedural or material rights and, on the other hand, the freezing of time limits also applies to the courts and administrative authorities. This means that judges and officials will also be able to wait for individual procedural actions to be carried out. Since this is primarily about the protection of the health of both the judiciary and the administrative authorities, as well as the citizens involved in these proceedings, we have already welcomed these solutions on the Committee on Justice and considered them to be reasonable in the LMŠ Group. The principle of proportionality should also be applied to other measures that, although the law today gives them a legal basis, it was not the case. In particular, I am thinking here of measures that allow for the cessation of prison sentences and for the cessation of the call for sentences. In view of the fact that the legal basis for these two measures is being created today, we would like to express our doubts and our reservations about them in public in the LMŠ Group. In our view, the measures are excessive, reckless and irresponsible. In prisons, a security measure banning visits has already been adopted to prevent the spread of coronavirus. This could be upgraded by, say, mandatory testing of guards and all other personnel who are in contact with prisoners, further testing the prisoners themselves and isolation of the possibly ill. These are all measures which, in accordance with the principle of sequentiality and proportionality, should take place before the measures which the Government is now implementing by this law. We are further asked about prisoners who have been released. What will happen to them, where and how they will be held at that time when their sentence is interrupted, or will they be in house arrest, and will this period, when they are at home, be counted as a permanent prison sentence? We asked the Minister on the Justice Committee all of this, but unfortunately we did not get any answers to our questions. Finally, it is not stated in the law which of the prisoners will actually be granted this leave to suspend his prison sentence, and the government, as a motioner, leaves this to arbitral opinion of the directors of the institutions for the cessation of prison sentences. In our view, this is a highly unthinkable and irresponsible solution. The health of prisoners, as has already been said, could also be ensured by other less rigorous measures, even because it is not determined what will happen to released prisoners. In our view, however, concerns about the health of prisoners must also be put aside for the general safety of citizens and property. In view of the vote on the committee, the intervention law will be adopted and these two measures will be adopted with it, and we are therefore sad that, because of these two controversial articles, we cannot support the law which otherwise regulates good and necessary measures, so that our today's appeal to those responsible will be expressed at the same time that these two measures will be applied as responsibly as possible. We will abstain from law in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First of all, we must take care of the health and life of all of us, this is irreplaceable. Everything else can wait, so we must make every effort to prevent the spread of this highly contagious infection as much as possible. Therefore, judicial, administrative and other proceedings will also be suspended. Courts across Europe have closed their doors. They only decide on the most urgent matters as at the time of judicial leave. And it's the same with us. Although the President of the Supreme Court has already signed an order that all courts decide only on urgent matters, today we are also adopting a legal basis, this intervention law. During the duration of the specific measures, time limits will not run in judicial proceedings, including the time limit for the lodging of a constitutional complaint, nor will the writing be served. The courts will therefore decide only on urgent matters, such as investigations and prosecutions in criminal cases in which the accused is seized or restricted in criminal matters of foreigners, enforcement cases, in relation to the upbringing and protection of children and maintenance obligations and in matters relating to the detention of persons in psychiatric institutions, and the detained person will also be able to be heard via videoconference. These measures may last for as long as there are reasons for this, but for as long as 1 July 2020. Nor will deadlines run in administrative and other public matters during the period of application of this Act. This will also allow administrative units to decide only on urgent matters. These are measures relating to the protection of public interest, such as the threat to public order and peace or to human health, as well as to the urgent and effective exercise of authority. What this means is not clear, as has been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion. Although it has been reported from the competent ministry that these are the most urgent procedures relating to personal conditions, such as the birth of a child, death, renewal of personal documents for emergencies, urgent renewal of driving licences and urgent renewal of residence. We hope that there will be no confusion and people will know what matters are urgent and which ones are not and which hands are running and which ones are not. Social Democrats are aware that these measures are necessary. It is essential to ensure the safety of all employees in order to enable them to work from home, but also to ensure the safety of all parties in procedures so that they do not endanger their health and health of others due to the capture of deadlines and various administrative tasks. Specialties will also be with prisoners. The convict may be released from prison prematurely, but only six months before his sentence expires. If necessary, the Director of the Detention Facility may, in order to prevent the spread of the infection for a period of one month, suspend the sentence of imprisonment of convicts if there are no safety concerns or reservations. Here it must be noted that under no circumstances will the safety of other people be compromised by the release of prisoners. I therefore appeal to the competent authorities to exercise this measure with extreme caution. We must be aware that we are talking about the early release of people from prison who have been legally convicted of various crimes, even serious. Exclusion of a large number of convicted persons in the current emergency situations may significantly exacerbate the security situation. We are aware that there is already a difficult situation in prisons, but we must also be aware of situations that could arise if we release more of these people. In the event of a large number of people being released, we can also risk the police facing additional problems in addition to existing ones. Here I am referring to the protection of the state border, which at these times is still ongoing, because there are many illegal crossings, the return of these people to the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, where they came from, and because of the current situation, it is not possible or impossible. We therefore appeal to the competent authorities to consider not applying these provisions in the case of returnees and those who are going to jail for worse crimes. I hope we can contain this virus. Until then, he will need a lot of patience and patience. I am aware that the consequences in all areas of our lives will be great, but I am sure that we will be able to do so with the joint strong and swift measures of the country, in particular with mutual respect and with full respect for the rules and instructions of the professional services. The Social Democrats will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Skuine Party of the modern centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Vice-President of the National Assembly. Nice greetings from the Minister, the Member of Parliament, the Members of Parliament! In the area of communicable diseases, there are laws and regulations laying down the organisation and arrangements of monitoring, control and response to the phenomenon, as well as the control of the occurrence of communicable diseases, thus ensuring the protection and preservation of the health of the population. The State has guidelines and recommendations for rapid response and timely and proportionate action in the event of an epidemic of communicable diseases, as well as a preparedness and response plan, which we are witnessing in those days when the so-called emergency measures are being implemented. However, current laws show that the country has the appropriate legal basis for health care measures in order to ensure protection against communicable diseases or measures both to prevent and manage such diseases, as these are primarily a public health problem. But these measures do not only endanger public and our health, but they also cause other social consequences that we will experience for longer than, at least, we hope, this epidemic will continue. Therefore, in order to control them, or at least to contain or mitigate the negative consequences, we need other measures, which are not allowed by the law as well as by the plan and the remaining legislation in force. In this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we will therefore have to consider some other proposals for legislation following an urgent procedure which lays down temporary measures aimed at preventing the spread of viral infection, the protection of health, the lives of people, ensuring the functioning of individual national authorities, local self-government bodies, holders of public powers and ensuring the exercise of rights and obligations both from authorities and individuals. As you have already been informed, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the Minister of Justice, has already issued an order on specific measures relating to the exercise of judicial authority at the time of 16. 3. 2020. However, the latter order does not appear to solve the problems arising from the expiry of the material deadlines and the time-limits for this measure if the epidemic continues after the expiry of the period by this order. The material time limits are not prolonged, except during mobilisation, direct war danger, emergency or war situation, and so on. In addition, problems with administrative procedures, service in notary matters and even in prison conditions have also proved to be present, as they cannot or will not be able to provide adequate measures for the isolation of patients due to spatial distress. Slovenian prisons are overcrowded and, in addition to lack of staff, the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, which manages them, also faces the fact that most prisons are located in older facilities. Therefore, the proposed measures in this bill allowing convicts to be transferred on grounds of preventing the spread of communicable diseases are to cease the sentence of imprisonment to a convict where there are no security concerns necessary and necessary. We will, of course, support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party in the Group of Members. And that's it. Let us recall that by declaring the coronavirus a global threat to public health, the World Health Organisation has already called on countries to activate their preparedness plans in January this year. At that time, some claimed that we were not facing such a threat for the first time in history and that we had already prepared ourselves for similar situations in the past. The present bill is more than obvious that we are not ready. We therefore hope that the current epidemic will be a lesson for us and that, once the greatest threat is passed, we will approach the necessary changes to the rules in force, or some of today's provisional measures as systemic measures for future action against such threats, and will, of course, complement the said preparedness plan accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u108	Your Honor, Madam Secretary. In order to avoid any dilemma at first, let me say that we will support the proposal of the law in Levica. We are aware that at a time when rapid response and solutions are needed to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, this is the time right now. In this part of Levi, we support the measures taken so far by both these and previous governments. Although some of the measures are very sharp, we estimate that they are certainly not only necessary but also urgent. We do not agree, however, that everything the government does must be supported in silence, without discussion and without comment. We still have democracy, and we just don't intend to give it up. At least not on the left. The current situation cannot and must not mean that, because of the emergency situation, the National Assembly will become only a silent voting machine, blindly squeezing the government. In the last days of the consideration of the package of measures that we have under consideration today, once again, which we are also taking today, we have been practically attacked by every question, concern or even initiative, that we must be state-of-the-art, united and that there is no time for discussion. Well, that's not how we operate in Levica. Regardless of the situation, regardless of the situation, we will continue to commend good measures, oppose the bad, and where possible, we will also propose improvements. Especially with the fact that the government is very active in the economy, while it seems that workers and especially pensioners and some vulnerable groups have been forgotten. One of the vulnerable groups, as some of my predecessors and speakers have already said, must be persons on prison terms. The law before us applies to them. But behind these people, we know that there are very different life stories, situations, and therefore simple solutions in the form of a one-month suspension of prison sentences or early release are not a good measure in all cases. In Levika, we have therefore pointed out on the Committee on Justice that there are also people who have nowhere to go who are not waiting for their family outside and who are in an unenviable social and material situation and that immediate release could deepen their suffering. From the Minister of Justice, present today, we have been assured that all aspects and personal situations of each individual will be taken into account, so we certainly expect this to be the case. Yet in Levi, we still believe that amnesty or pardon for all those who are fit to do so would be the most appropriate solution. In Levi, we will, as we say, support the law, for it contains quite a few solutions that represent an appropriate response to this situation. We support restrictions on the functioning of the courts and administration, restrictions, suspension of deadlines, restrictions on the functioning of the notariat and early release of prisoners. Again, we call on the competent ministry to prepare all other measures, which are also necessary, and we have not seen them to date. What am I talking about? I'm talking about the situation in a foreign home and in an asylum home, asylum seekers and refugees trapped in refugee camps or caught on a dangerous path. I am also thinking of all those, and in Levica we are exposing this to those who will not be able to repay the mortgage due to the loss of income, and especially those who will not be able to pay the rent due to the loss of income. The current situation will bring a number of families and individuals into material and social distress, and all those without basic and supplementary health insurance, which we have recalled in Levica, will therefore be deprived of access to health services. This must not happen to any citizen or resident of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, as you have helped the economy, it is also necessary to help everyone we listed. The prevention of executions and the initiation of personal bankruptcy by creditors should certainly be a priority. And there are many solutions that are needed. We have already referred some of them to the government, and we expect to see them soon in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u110	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The aim of the bill is to make it possible in the field of judicial cases, administrative cases and other public legal matters to prevent the spread of the virus while ensuring the functioning of the competent authorities or holders of public powers and the exercise of rights and obligations. All the measures provided for in this Act and the acts adopted pursuant to it shall apply until the reasons for them have ceased. This shall be determined by the Government by a decision published in the Official Journal but not later than 1 July 2020. The draft law provides for temporary measures in judicial matters, measures in administrative and other public matters, measures in respect of notary offices and measures in respect of the enforcement of criminal sanctions. It is healthy to expect certain administrative procedures and procedures in the courts at the time of the epidemic. The order of the President of the Supreme Court is not enough to prevent the spread of infection. We need a law that is broader and therefore more effective. In particular, we welcome the fact that, both in the field of judicial matters and in the field of public law, the deadlines for the enforcement of substantive rights under the law are extended and that the law does not focus solely on the way in which the proceedings have already been initiated. In particular, we consider it important and necessary temporary measures in the field of the enforcement of criminal sanctions. We have been able to monitor for a long time the difficulties of ensuring adequate living conditions in Slovenian prisons, which are important both to respect the dignity of detainees and prisoners, as well as to ensure the safety and working conditions of employees. At the time of the epidemic, it is also important that we allow the imprisoned and judicial police to have normal working conditions, thus ensuring their health and the health of their families and all those convicted. Alternative forms of prison sentences may need to be considered, as well as what to do with prisoners, especially detained foreigners, who represent more than a third of all prisoners and detainees in Slovenia. The health and life of people are paramount, so some procedures can wait. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u112	Your Honor! In the last few days, we have been in a serious situation that has until recently been totally unimaginable. The current situation calls for some urgent measures to help prevent the spread of covid-19 disease and thus preserve life and public health. The fact is, in the present situation, it is necessary to limit to the greatest extent possible any contact between people. We are aware that contacts cannot be completely restricted, but it is our duty, that is, the legislator's duty to do everything in our power to protect our citizens. The Government has thus drafted, inter alia, a law on temporary measures in relation to judicial, administrative and other public legal matters to control the spread of covid-19 communicable disease. At the invitation of the Ministry of Justice in the past days, stakeholders have already taken certain measures to prevent the contacts of judges, judicial staff, parties and other participants in the proceedings. In doing so, they want to prevent the further spread of the coronary virus. The law lays down the legal basis for establishing such measures as are aimed at preventing the spread of viral infection, protecting human health and life and aimed at ensuring the functioning of individual authorities. The purpose of the law is also to protect the rights of citizens in judicial, administrative and other public legal matters. Among other things, the proposal retains the running of procedural deadlines in legal proceedings which are not necessary and are not being conducted in the current situation. In addition, it retains material time limits for the exercise of the rights of the parties. In urgent cases, retention of time limits shall not apply. At the time of the application of this Act, there are no deadlines for the submission of a constitutional complaint. The proposal also provides for the possibility of excluding the public for the whole or part of the main treatment. Similarly, in the area of administrative and other public law matters, the deadlines will apply. In order to avoid contact between people, however, the proposal prevents the personal service of consignments. The law also touches on the areas of enforcement of criminal sanctions, as it is necessary to ensure that the new coronavirus does not spread in institutions for the cessation of sentences. In Slovenian prisons, they are facing spatial hardship and the additional problem is the lack of judicial officers, which is why it is essential to ensure the safety of their stay in the prison system as much as possible. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the measures taken in the current situation by the new government aimed at curbing the coronavirus. Now we must first and foremost strive to be united and to help one another. In the SAB, we know what it means to run a country in crisis. In 2013, we faced a major financial crisis. But at the time, we did not have the support of the opposition, and we would still need it. But we need to know that we're all in the same boat and only together will we succeed. Once again, call on all citizens to comply with the instructions of the competent authorities and thus contribute to the early resolution of the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u114	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In these days, we are witnessing a state that he said a few weeks ago was possible only in films. Slovenia has literally stopped. Public life has stopped, public transport has stopped and the culprit is, of course, known. The government has therefore already taken a number of measures to combat the Coronavirus epidemic. One of the measures is the Law on Interim Measures in relation to Judicial, Administrative and Other Public Legal Matters for the Control of the Dissemination of Infectious Diseases, which is before us today. Measures should be taken in the broadest possible social sphere and work should be limited to the most urgent tasks, if possible. All of this in the interest of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. On 13 March, he is President of the Supreme Court of Mag. Damjan Floriančič issued an order ordering all courts from 16 March 2020 to engage and decide only in urgent cases, as provided for in Article 83 of the Law on Courts. Thus, the Notary Chamber, the State Attorney's Office and the State Prosecutor's Office have adapted their business to further guidance, namely that tasks are done as much as possible via telephone and e-mail. The draft law thus seeks to provide an adequate legal basis so that, in judicial, administrative and other public matters, measures can be taken to prevent the spread of the virus and disease in order to protect the health and life of people and to protect the functioning of the authorities at both the national and local levels as well as the holders of public powers. As a result, it wants to wet the retention of trials, procedural deadlines and prevent the spread of new virus infection in institutions for the cessation of prison sentences. It should be made clear that the measures are temporary and that their duration is limited. They will only last for a period of time until the reasons for them have ceased, as the Government will find out by decision. We hope that it will last for as long as 1 July 2020 as it has been written down and with an absolute deadline. The proposal has certainly raised the greatest interest in criminal sanctions measures, as it is proposed that proceedings concerning the call for the sentence be discontinued. The Director of the Penitentiary Institute could, on an official basis, transfer the sentenced person from one institution to another institution or department for a period of one month due to the epidemic. However, he will be able to end the sentence of imprisonment when there are no security concerns. He will also be able to dismiss the convicted person for a maximum of 6 months before the end of the prison sentence. We believe that the directors of the detention centres will think carefully and verify all the information and also get the relevant opinions before they decide on any of these options. The Institute of Early Leaves is already possible, but for a maximum of three months before the end of the sentence, and in the event that the Director receives the appropriate opinion of professional workers on the ground that the convicted person behaves properly, works at work, participates actively in other useful activities and has passed two thirds of the sentence. Finally, we need to take into account that the virus and disease do not choose. If additional measures can prevent potential enlargement or plague it, when and if it does occur, we need to think for the benefit of all. As with some other institutions, detention is more likely to occur and it will be difficult to establish adequate isolation and care for the infected within four walls. It is therefore necessary to allow for possible scenarios if this occurs. In addition to all of this, we do not want employees to be infected, but as we well know, they are already in short supply. Slovenia is a solidarity country, but we must always be aware that the current situation without loyal and caring workers in health care and in these days also by shopkeepers and shopkeepers, members of civil protection, soldiers and judicial officers would be even worse. A lot of people have stayed home for the last few days. Some even preventative. But we also hear different stories. But stories where there is no place for rest and isolation would be absolutely necessary. Let us also keep in mind all those who must also be in jobs at these times, even though some companies could, for a short time, preventively close the door for the better tomorrow for all of us. In the House of Common Desus, we will be happy to support the law on temporary measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendments of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. Anybody want to talk? I see there's no interest in debate. Is there anything else the Minister would like to add to the views of the parliamentary groups? You want a word? Okay, I see he's just one of the interests. The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't know we had just this amendment. I will be slightly broader than the substance of this amendment, because I think it is important to draw attention to some things, although I have already said in my position that in the LMŠ Group most of the measures envisaged by this law we support, understand and welcome them. At the same time, we need to make clear and express our concern about the measures taken to end the prison sentence. In my views and in the implementation of the Minister, I have observed that in this section of the Law on Measures in the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, emphasis has been placed primarily on the measure of early release from prison. This is not disputed, it is indeed already envisaged under certain conditions and we are essentially extending this period only instead of three months six months. If we look at the law, this intervention law has, in Article 12, which deals with this suspension of prison sentences, a dictatorship that is very wide-ranging and essentially gives the current directors of the institutions a blank mandate or some power to decide, without any other conditions, which of the prisoners will go home, who will be interrupted by the prison sentence. The minister explained this dictatorship, saying that the director of the institution already has this power. Here in the intervention law, I believe that they have unintentionally committed lapsus when they refer to the law on the execution of prison sentences in Article 13. That's not the law. You've probably been thinking about the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions Act, but let's just leave it. What I wish to say is that if we really want to write a very clear and well-intentioned sentence of the article, it should also be used in Article 12, which speaks of ending the sentence of imprisonment, in a similar way to the one used in Article 13, which speaks of early release. Here you well stated that the director of the prison detention facility may, for reasons of preventing the spread of the virus epidemic, subject to the conditions set out in Article 108, now the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, if I say so correctly, apply this measure. Okay, in this law, it is said in the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions that are taxable, that is to say, to specify the conditions under which the Director of the Institute may dismiss someone prematurely. There's nothing wrong with that. As I said, however, we have a great deal of thought and a problem with article 12 in the intervention law, which does not have this dictatorship. It does not, therefore, travel to the application of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, which, I must point out, also provides for the suspension of the prison sentence in Article 82, but also in this article there are seven reasons, nothing more, seven under which the Director may then decide to end the prison sentence. Among these reasons are severe illness, injury to a convict not to list all of them, you can read them. However, I would like to point out that these reasons are clearly defined and if any of these reasons are not available, then the Director cannot stop and send him home to the convicted person who is going to be held in prison. Under the intervention law, which is before us today, as I have already mentioned, we give the directors of the prison institutions the power to release individual prisoners at home regardless of the existence of any reason. This, in our view, is courageous, but extremely irresponsible. It is not that we do not trust directors here, in their assessment, but that if we do not have in the normative part of the law certain conditions under which a measure can be applied, we have legitimate concerns today that this measure could be applied completely arbitrarily, perhaps even unjustifiablely, we do not know. And here's our concern. Since we need to know that these are convicted people who have not yet been rehabilitated, I have also stressed this on the committee, the prison sentence has been imposed in order to rehabilitate the prisoner at this time. And now, the reasons of the Ministry or the Minister of State had previously stated on the Committee, in an additional explanation, that some of the security concerns had already been covered in such a way or other circumstances, that those most dangerous convicts were in custody and that they would not be released at home, so that this security assessment was made. That's not true. When I read the articles of this intervention law, there is no record in the normative work that prisoners will not, say, be sent home. It doesn't say that anywhere. It doesn't say which one of the prisoners is going to be going home, whether they're going to be sick prisoners, infected or healthy, and the infected will be held in prison. The situation is completely unclear and this arbitrariness, which the director of the institution will have, in our opinion, is indeed dangerous. In addition, as I have already mentioned in the position, neither in the intervention law nor - since the intervention law does not refer to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions - it is not clear from both of these laws what will happen, how these prisoners who will be sent home, or will be detained at home, will be able to go out for a walk, will be able to move normally. None of this is clearly defined, everything is left behind, I don't know what. You refer to the explanation of the law, but the explanation of the law is not a binding part of the law. And you don't write in the explanation of the law about what will happen to those prisoners who will end their sentence. I don't know if you've thought about the victims of these crimes and those convicts who will be sent home. The matter is not as simple as you want to present it, and as I have already said in my position, quite a few measures can be taken before we take such extreme measures as the release of convicts to virtually freedom, I do not know whether there is a provision for house arrest or freedom. We could mix it up, as I said, by testing all stakeholders who are in contact with convicts or prisoners, and we would have made some sort of sieve here by now. I could, I don't know, the secretary said earlier, I've noticed that there are already eight people in isolation in prison. These people are in isolation because of the coronary infection, and you did not say this very well, or perhaps if you give this information. This security assessment is indeed lacking in this law. In our view, this is a very extreme measure, and it really grieves us that because of this article, we cannot, in fact, assume this responsibility with you to support a law which, in principle, contains all the other good measures and very necessary measures, but unfortunately we cannot sit here with you on the same train. That's why we're going to abstain from marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic asked for the floor. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Thank you for your comments, too. Unfortunately, however, I must conclude that there is a lack of understanding of the institutions as well as of the legislation already in force. All these institutes are already married. If I focus first on calling for an end to the sentence. When you said I mentioned the detention. Of course, someone who is in custody is not entitled to an interruption. Such a person means that he is still in criminal proceedings or that he is in the process of being treated. In the event that such a person is convicted, he or she shall only be placed in prison, for it means that he or she is socially dangerous because there may be either a complacency or a recurring danger. So people who will not be called upon to remain in prison are already on the loose. So the situation is exactly the same, except that now they will not be called upon to end the prison sentence, but will be called upon later when the situation ends. Regarding the interruption, you say that Article 12 is inadequate or that it is not correct, is not legal. The legal and legal service has established its regularity and legality. In fact, we cannot refer to Article 108 of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions - here I agree with you that we have stated the wrong, in the editorial correction it will also be corrected. However, the fact is that we cannot refer to him because he is taxing the cases, as you said, seven of them, in which the director can now say that if there are no security concerns, orders a stay, but at the request of an individual convict. However, the dictatorship referred to in Article 12 explicitly states that the Director can, therefore, by official duty to prevent the spread of the infection, I reiterate, after checking security concerns that may not exist, and here I guarantee that this will not happen. Today, there are 94 people on this measure who have taken advantage of this institute, but there are no problems. And even in all these years, when the directors exercised this authority, there were no problems. So I note that today we are expressing a lack of confidence in the system, which has worked very well all the time and will work, following the Director's assurance, on the part of the administration itself, as - precisely because of this public response - additional professional supervision and review will be introduced in the National Assembly, also on its part, so that the matter will be fully in line with the legislation. Security concerns, however, are a number of them, from the very crime that has been committed from the way that this crime has been committed, and it is also necessary to take into account how that person behaves and behaves at the time that he is going through a prison sentence. An important aspect is, it is important to check how the environment will respond if this person returns to this environment and how the injured person will respond in this case is important. The injured person is also entitled, so the victim is entitled to receive information about this person. So it's all legal here. And these are things that the director must take into account when he decides to do so now. Will it be avoided or permitted to interrupt a healthy or sick person? State institutions must comply with the instructions we have in the event of an infection. So we need to do what the recommendations of the National Institute for Public Health do. This means that persons showing signs need to be isolated, tested and taken care of. If they're sick, they need to be taken care of, and the institute will take care of them. Such individuals will by no means be left to themselves. Nor will these persons be left alone in the event that you say they will be destitute or otherwise. No, no, no. Not at all. House arrest, when you say, house arrest is a special institution, so it is a detention that is assigned in the predictive procedure. In no way may it be imposed at the time of enforcement of criminal sanctions. So it's a misunderstanding of individual institutes. You also asked about people. We have eight people in isolation at the Age. Yeah. Because the instructor who came to them and did the job was infected, which means we had to provide isolation for these people. This was, of course, also in public, so this is a publicly known information. Once again, what you are saying is, in fact, not technically feasible in the sense that we should refer to a regulation that regulates a completely different situation. Legal and legal services, once again, had no reservations. The delays that have occurred have been corrected, and the law has been fully aligned with their recommendations. One of the honourable Members who presented the position said that prisoners were also people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The replica, Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u120	Madam Minister, this is not my misunderstanding, but it is your misunderstanding of my debate. Probably, maybe you didn't want to understand it on purpose. I was talking about ending the prison sentence, not the early release you talked about most of the time. And I did not say that in Article 12, which deals with the suspension of a prison sentence, the intervention law should refer to this Article 108 of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, but I have stated very well that it could refer to Article 82 of the Law on the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions, which taxically lists seven reasons why the director of the institution can now terminate the suspension of a prison sentence. Some of the reasons stated by the law are severe diseases, injuries if the prisoner is unable to perform at least one of the basic necessities of life, if his immediate family member dies or if someone is sicker, if interruption is necessary, if the convict is to take care of the child’s protection and upbringing and so on. So you misunderstood me. I did not say that Article 12 should relate to 108, you are here, I believe that you have deliberately made such a connection that you can then focus your discussion on this early discharge, which I said is not controversial for us. The dispute is the cessation of the prison sentence. Because these security reasons that you have stated that detainees are not yet in prison and that they are in custody, this is clear to me, but there are three reasons for detention: complacency, repeat danger and conflict risk. Don't you? It is not said that all convicts who meet any of these three grounds of detention are dangerous. And it is not said that all dangerous convicts are in custody. That's not true, and here you're deceiving when you're explaining that the security evaluation has been taken care of. It's not. And before that, I forgot to mention, and now you're in your own debate. In explanation of this disputed article, which speaks of the suspension of the prison sentence, speak only of prisons being overcrowded. This has nothing to do with the threat of the virus we are now facing. And you haven't answered my question about where these prisoners will be sent when they are suspended from the prison sentence. Will they be home? Here I used the term house arrest because it makes sense that we should stay home, not just walk around. So it's not my misunderstanding of the institutes, it's my misunderstanding. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u121	Colleague, time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u122	I've got half a minute, mate Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u123	You have a replica, so it's only three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u124	Three minutes? Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u125	Thank you. Do you want to answer? The word has magic. Liljana Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u126	Thank you. I'm going to point out again what I've highlighted. The detention refers to the institute inviting convicts to stay in prison. We can't deal with it in any connection with the interruption institute. With regard to the interruption, if we look at Article 82, we cannot refer to it because these are the reasons that are already in law and can only be when the convict asks for them. Here is another additional reason why it is here in the intervention law, and this is to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, to protect the health and life of people, i.e. convicts. Where are these people going to be? In the event of an interruption, it is necessary to verify that these persons have all the conditions for their punishment to be suspended. These persons will be at home and will respect all other measures taken by the Government and the National Assembly to prevent further expansion of the coronavirus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I still see interest in the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u128	Thank you. I do have very little time, but, Madam Minister, you are going against yourself. You are saying that the reasons for this suspension of the prison sentence cannot be invoked because the law mentions them, but it is not a protection against the spread of the virus, but at the same time you say that if, when a prison is interrupted, these reasons will be checked. Yeah, what now, are there reasons or aren't there reasons? The Director-General will decide arbitrarily on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Do you want to answer now? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u130	We cannot refer to these reasons, for example, whether the director can refer to the fact that someone has a death in the family or, for this reason, can be terminated. It's an individual's request. The things that will be checked are the ones that I listed, which is security concerns, not those reasons that are listed in the law. One reason is to prevent the spread of the disease and, of course, to protect the health and life of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u132	Thank you very much again for your word. I had to take a call precisely because this kind of debate was held on this 12th Article, which specifies the suspension of the prison sentence. And it is precisely because of the controversy that I am obliged to read this first sentence of this article. “The director of the prison detention institution may, on an official basis, suspend, if necessary to prevent the spread of the viral infection epidemic, the suspension of the sentence of imprisonment to a convict for a period of one month where there are no security concerns.” And here is the key question of the current debate, whether we trust the director of the detention facility to assess objectively, not subjectively, for a reason, and this is an epidemic, whether there are security concerns about a person who is going through a prison sentence. I must admit that I do not agree here because in the debate it was said that the so-called Bianca was authorized. This Bianca mandate is not only on its own, but is only related to the time of this epidemic and the possibility of this matter being stopped, prevented or reacted in any way if this situation were to arise. I must admit that when a speech on the mandate of the Director of the Post-Penalty Institution has the full power to carry out all activities in accordance with the laws and regulations of law, no one has touched either on the parental committee or today, but what has been done with the powers of the President of the Supreme Court, since there is also the possibility of bankruptcy, coercion and so forth that this power may be used in any way, let's say, theoretically. I am sure that these responsible powers will not come to this at all. And what surprises me a little bit, as far as this Article 12 is concerned, is limited, it is very clear by the provision “as long as this epidemic lasts”, and that it is literally prevented and, in fact, a period of time, practically one month. I don't see any weakness in this provision here. I also agree with the fact that the Law-Legal Service has not questioned any such matter in any way. I firmly believe, and even by the directors of the detention facility, not once, he will probably consider five times before making such a decision, because it is not so simple and it is a very serious matter. I absolutely agree with this bill and the explanations by the executive branch of power, which were bound to paragraphs 12 and 13. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see you don't. That is why I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment today in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 3rd A-point of the agenda, which is a second defensively proposed law on intervention in public finance within the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Andrea Shirtzle, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, honourable Members, honourable Members! The government has drawn up an intervention law to propose a set of measures in the public financial field as a result of the outbreak of infectious disease covid-19. At that time, it is extremely important that the country, through positive measures, listen to the needs of entrepreneurs and businesses who will suffer damage in the business field as a result of the epidemic. The government proposes some measures to facilitate their operations in difficult times. The bill also creates the necessary legal basis to enable sufficient resources to finance all measures to be taken to combat the epidemic and to mitigate the consequences. The law provides for a number of measures to be taken. First of all, these measures are measures for the administrative burden on taxpayers and for the administrative burden on business and public entities in connection with the submission of annual reports. However, measures are also envisaged for the financial recovery of taxpayers. A specific set of measures is intended to provide ongoing funding which could not be planned when preparing the country's budget. The measures taken so far by the Government to contain the virus epidemic have been aimed at restricting public life, which has also directly affected business operators' business activities and, as a result, the fulfilment of tax obligations. The measures provided for in this Act follow government orders already adopted by allowing taxable persons and business entities a longer period of time for the safe preparation of data and the issuance of invoices in such a way as to allow a longer period of social distance for the control of the epidemic to be maintained. As a result, the deadlines for drawing up the 2019 informational income calculation by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the deadlines for submitting a statement of income assessment are also extended if the taxable person does not receive the information calculation. This deadline will expire at the end of August 2020. In order to declare the epidemic and take measures, negative consequences are also foreseen for the conduct of business activities, in particular the impact on the extent to which business operators' incomes are achieved at that time of exceptional circumstances. Such entities may benefit from this law by facilitating conditions for the modification of the transitional deposit and by facilitating the application of deferral or reverse payment of tax liabilities. Sufficient resources will have to be provided within a very short period of time for the smooth implementation of measures related to the epidemic. Since this could not be planned in the preparation of the country's budget, the Government is given greater powers for the duration of the epidemic to redistribute spending rights within the framework of the country's adopted budget. The proposed law also provides for the retention of the execution of individual expenditure in the State budget for more than 45 days or until the adoption of the country's budget balance for 2020. In this way, the best possible means to remedy the consequences of the epidemic are sought within the framework of the budget adopted. In order to avoid difficulties with the preparation of annual reports, deadlines for the submission of final accounts and annual reports shall be extended for a total of 2 months, with the possibility of extending this deadline. In these critical times, it is important that we jointly monitor and carry out all activities to adjust the duration of the epidemic control measures, as this has a positive impact on the country's social climate. If I withdraw, the deadlines for issuing tax forms from the income of legal persons are extended. It is also a date of deferral for the payment of taxes up to 24 months. And the day is also set aside for the payment of the deposit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u136	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen! At its 35th urgent meeting today, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on Public Finance Intervention Measures submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives and purposes of the bill. It explained that the proposed law intends to mention the impact of the virus epidemic on businesses and entrepreneurs in the field of compliance with tax obligations and to provide legal basis to provide sufficient resources within the State budget to finance the measures to be taken with a view to bridging the epidemic and mitigating its consequences. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the service in the introduction of the written opinion had proposed to simplify the duration of the measures by defining them in other laws which are in legislative procedures. In its written opinion, the Service also made specific comments to each article, in particular in terms of clarity and certainty. The representative of the service explained that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups are largely following the opinion of the service. In the debate, MEPs and Members generally supported the proposed solutions, stressing that the situation in Slovenia is exceptional and that urgent and extraordinary measures are needed as soon as possible to combat the epidemic and mitigate its consequences in both the economic and the social spheres. As regards the nature of the measures, it has been pointed out that these are temporary measures, the duration of which will be limited. The debaters generally agreed with business and business solutions in the field of compliance with tax obligations and in most cases also supported a public finance solution to enable the Government to decide independently on the reallocation of spending rights in the country's budget. They pointed out that, in the light of the emergency situation, the Government is given great powers than it has not yet had, but that the Government is also responsible for decisions and measures taken so far. These allocations of power to the Government to decide on transfers of spending rights in the budget without restrictions were opposed by some Members and Members. They considered that the proposed solution to the National Assembly was taking away part of its powers and expressed concern about the lack of transparency and control and the potential unintended use of public funds. Following the discussion, the Committee considered the amendments tabled in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee adopted amendments to Article 14 of the draft law tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. The Committee did not adopt two amendments to Articles 10 and 11. The Committee, however, adopted the amendment to Article 11 of the draft law by the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, will be presented by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u138	Good evening, everyone! The law we are considering brings some relief for business operators in the current situation. In particular, we welcome the extension of the deadlines for the submission of the tax return on income from the activity and the collection of corporate income tax. We welcome the postponement of the deadline for the composition and the opening of an informational calculation of the income for 2019. And we welcome the deadlines for the submission of annual reports. These are measures that will not further burden business administrations in times of crisis. However, a number of issues are raised when the payment of tax liabilities and income payments is delayed, where we are convinced that these issues could be resolved differently and, above all, easier. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we have proposed that an extraordinary meeting be held tomorrow, which would buy at least some time in which we and the expert could prepare optimal measures. But the coalition didn't like it. That is why we will trust Andre Shirtz and his responsibilities and ensure that the law, as it were, stands. Nevertheless, there is quite a few content in the proposal that requires at least reflection. In particular, issues and concerns are raised in terms of the relationship between the executive and the legislative authorities. The draft law strongly interferes with the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial matters. We agree that we are in a period of exceptional health conditions, but not in a constitutional sense. Therefore, the transparency of public spending cannot and must not be questioned at the time of the declared epidemic. We support most of the measures, but we cannot give the government the money exchange, so that the funds cannot be drained in a transparent manner without the consent of the National Assembly, because all public spending of one day will have to be covered by budgetary inflows and we will feel the consequences of reckless behaviour for years after the end of the current situation. Therefore, given that Slovenia is a constitutional parliamentary democracy, appropriate mechanisms of balance between the government and the national assembly must be incorporated into each law. However, the Government is obliged to inform and report to the Parliament, which adopts the only laws. Our proposal has also gone in this direction and has only been taken into account by the coalition on the Committee in the reporting work to the Commission on Public Finance Supervision. And with the support of the coalition, she retained all the other powers. And here we are in a situation where the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, after the appointment of the new government, is so allegedly headed, as well as the KNOVS. I therefore call for our immediate approach to the preparation of a new cut in working bodies, especially the two commissions. Parliament can also work in the current situation and can meet, so the Government does not need additional extraordinary powers, which are in the context of this intervention law. The declared epidemic cannot, and I am no reason to intervene in a constitutionally structured relationship, especially since it is in the common interest for all of us to successfully face the crisis that we are witnessing and, as a result, to deal with it both from a public health point of view and from an economic and business perspective. We are convinced that there is no legitimate political legal or technical reason to approve such provisions, that the Government can allocate budgetary resources within the existing legal framework and that if there is a need for additional transfers, it can therefore obtain support from the National Assembly. We have therefore tabled three amendments to the legislative procedure, which specify the delimitation of power and the validity of the law. All except one were slightly rejected on the board. Only one has been accepted which allows for at least minimal hygiene of the role of the National Assembly. The conditions in which Europe and Slovenia have become involved are very serious. They require different approaches from us. However, we must not move away from the fundamental constitutional principles of the sharing of powers. If we adopt a law without the proposed supplements, the government gets as much power as it has ever had in the history of independent Slovenia. The vote on this today will in fact mean that the National Assembly no longer has control over public finances. So, fellow Members, do you agree to restrict your own constitutional powers, our constitutional rights and duties? With your help, the government will de facto assume the role of Parliament, thus eliminating all transparency. We stress this too often, so I should like to thank once again all the people who work for us, health workers, police, military, food stores, banks, post offices, pharmacies, delivery services, taxi drivers, volunteers, and all the others who are making our hard days easier. The rest I would like to call again, follow the instructions and the measures taken, stay at home, and many cannot do so. And I want everything good for you, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! It is very good that the opposition has also put this opposition goal in the box and that it knows that we are facing a difficult crisis in this country, and yet today, I will say, I will make a lot of opposition questions: masks, higher wages and so on. However, we know that we are in a crisis situation that needs to be addressed. We have a law on public finance ahead of us. There are two key solutions to this proposal. First of all, the measure lays down deadlines for the submission of tax reports and delays the payment deadlines for the tax and other obligations of the State. It's actually more about administrative matters for our entrepreneurs, and as long as I've been saying this for two days, until we help entrepreneurs with liquidity, the matter will not be resolved. And as long as we save on independent entrepreneurs, on cultural workers, on others, the matter will get worse every day. The second set of solutions, however, is linked to the powers of the Government to allocate the resources it has acquired through a measure to suspend the implementation of the budget. As regards the first set, i.e. the postponement of the payment of taxes and contributions to affected entities, this measure is of course supported and we believe that it is a minimum necessary measure, which will at least short-term or at least partially calm some entrepreneurs, but of course it will not solve the key problem. Therefore, in the SD, we believe that this is certainly a measure in the right direction, and I hope, Andrej Šircelj, Minister, that new measures will be followed shortly, which will be significantly more important. Now, the closure of the deadlines for the payment of tax returns and the payment of tax liabilities gives an important signal to employers that their problems will be addressed at least and to the people that the country is willing to act. However, we have doubts in the second set of solutions. It is clear to us from the Government that the country needs liquid assets to deal with the crisis, which cannot be obtained within a short period of time other than in the budget, that is clear to me. And thank God the budget is liquid. This has also been made possible by the previous government. Thus, the new government immediately froze the implementation of the budget at the time of taking over the mandate, holding back 400 million funds that are not directly linked to the implementation of the legislative tasks. In some other times, this would cause, believe me, great opposition, and in this situation there were no major contradictions. In some other times, some other opposition would be much more critical of this action, but I have so much experience, but the opposition is also aware of the responsibility of the Social Democrats, and we are playing a very constructive role in this. We are surprised by the Government's proposals to redistribute the money completely on its own between budget lines, while the preparation of the rebalancing instead of 45 days from today would take place only 90 days after the epidemic ended. It can take three months, it can last a year, and this, respected, is the government's power to do so without the National Assembly. The debate on the Committee has shown that the government party is only partial to greater transparency and parliamentary control, but still not enough to support such a huge delegation of powers peacefully. If it wasn't for Mark, the opposition probably wouldn't have made it in that minimum story. It can be seen that he has been a Member for many years and has also been on the executive branch. In order to deal with this situation, we need to strain all forces and use all resources. We're all aware of that together. Exclusion and non-democratic decisions cannot be afforded because this country does not have the privilege and this confidence between the opposition and the position would immediately end because it is essentially for the people and we are all dependent on them and we must work for them. We will have this law in the event that this minimum amendment is supported by the LMŠ, it is said that once a month it will be reported to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, how and how the Government treats budgetary money, how it is allocated, is supported. Otherwise, the government or coalition will have to accept it on its own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Today, we are adopting a package of legislative proposals with which the Government responds to the Coronavirus epidemic. We now have before us a proposal for a law on public finance, but it concerns in particular the prevention of harmful consequences in the economy. By the end of May, the draft law thus extends the deadline for the issuance of business and tax balances, i.e. for two months, until 31 May. At the same time, companies and espam are allowed to impose a tax ruling for a period of up to two years or are given the possibility of payment in a maximum of 24 monthly instalments. The State will therefore assist the debtors with administrative and financial or tax burdens. This will make it easier for economic operators to operate in the area of hospitality, tourism, trade, the production industry and other activities as a result of government measures and, in particular, because of the global market situation, they have lost their ability to operate normally. On the other hand, this law also empowers the Government to exercise and redistribute the resources of the National Assembly. It is important to point out that it is at the initiative of the opposition at today's meeting of the Finance Committee that a compromise proposal has been adopted to allow Parliament further control over these larger government powers. And why are all these measures necessary? As you know, before this government's appearance, they claimed that we were good or adequately prepared to avoid and delay rigorous measures. But it is obvious that timely and strategically coordinated planning and action was lacking. The new government has thus inherited the situation created by the failure to respect all professional warnings and has been forced to take measures that are also considered essential and inevitable by the SMC. Exceptional or exceptional situations also require extraordinary and extraordinary measures. In only six days, this government has drawn up five intervention laws. It is therefore time for crisis management and we are well aware of that in Parliament. Indeed, today's meeting takes place under special safety or preventive conditions. More importantly, in these crisis situations, everyone, the coalition and the opposition, is aware that it is necessary to act hand in hand. I really hope that we politicians, at least in these circumstances, will not disappoint people. It appears that this epidemic will cause one of the biggest crises in the European or global scales since World War II. The full scope of the measures needed to mitigate, as well as the financial consequences, are far from known and clear. However, an immediate response is necessary and we must make use of all available public or budgetary resources to limit or limit the health, social and economic consequences of the outbreak of this coronary virus. Immediately after the launch, the government suspended the implementation of the budgets and diverted EUR 400 million into the budget reserve with the aim of providing sufficient financial resources for the emergency, including purchases of protective equipment. Let me just point out, there were only 10 million euro on this item before. And although Umar has already halved this year's forecast of economic growth from 3 to 1.5 per cent, the situation on a daily basis is greatly deteriorating, and experts warn that the uncertainty and further escalation of the epidemic can make it possible even around 10 per cent of GDP decline. Therefore, in such a situation, we allow the Government to redistribute budgetary resources indefinitely so that it can first, through swift measures, infect and ensure the necessary health care for the sick and that it can also help employees and the economy. We will therefore, of course, support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u144	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. In Levi, we have been monitoring the coronary crisis from the beginning and we are constructively proposing both the previous and this government and supporting measures that are good, proportionate and which contribute to a solution. We have thus supported measures relating to quarantine, measures relating to self-reliance, public life and the like, so we also support measures to help the economy and so on. At the same time, we call on the Government to do more in some other areas where it has done too little so far because it shows that the social crisis is only really coming. More will have to be done for the self-employed. Other European countries have taken far more radical measures than ours. In particular, their contributions are being forgiven, the Scandinavian countries and Catalonia have also gone to subsidisation of redundancies, and in particular Catalonia has allocated 2 000 euros to each of them in order to make it easier for them to survive this crisis. Then we should especially thank everyone who goes to work and works for us at these times, from traders, suppliers, taxi drivers, workers in production, health personnel and so on. Here we call on the Government to do more to protect them and to charge employers with better protection. And in the end, more needs to be done to protect risk groups, such as pension homes, where we think it is necessary to test employees who go out and inside every day to avoid some sort of mini epidemic in some home of pensioners who can cause a lot of death and serious problems. However, the government is going too far in some areas. Today, Minister Hojs has practically announced that that article of the Defence Act, which confers police powers on the military, will be activated. Today, it is reported in the media that the government is supposed to declare an emergency, despite the fact that people are self-restraints considering that the streets of Slovenian cities are empty. And today this solution has come to the National Assembly, which has been incorporated into the law which, while touching on economic aid, would transfer all powers of public finances from the National Assembly directly to the Government. There's no need for that. Today, the National Assembly has shown that it is able in one day to enact emergency laws. Today, the National Assembly has shown that it is also able to improve these intervention laws, specifically this law has one solution proposed by the LMŠ and has also been adopted by the coalition. Therefore, there is no need for the Government to have, under the Public Finance Act, a room of manoeuvre for redistribution of sub-programmes, programmes and policies in the budget. There is no need to take full power over the Government until autumn, until September 1st, until this is due to take place. On the contrary, we are convinced in Levica that this is a dangerous intervention, because we are concerned that these measures will be used for the illegal strengthening of power. We know that the party that runs this government is genuinely sympathetic to regimes such as those in Hungary, and I think that we are not the only one concerned in this country that this untransparent management of the budget, which the Government will now run entirely alone, can be used to starve those budgetary users who do not respond ideologically or politically to this government. And here I stress that we will continue to engage constructively in the search for solutions that make sense, which are proportionate and which are necessary. At the same time, in all those areas where the Government is going too far, we will give this a strong warning and try to prevent these proposals. First of all, Mr Minister, I would like to point out that this measure, which you have written down in the law, is, therefore, a full delegation of powers regarding public finances to the government, can potentially even be unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister Mag. Expand, colleagues and colleagues! We are facing a crisis that no one has predicted, at least not in the dimensions of the pandemic. We are facing a situation in which it is working in special situations today, and thank God that it is working, the National Assembly. While I thanked all those who, with superhuman efforts, are overcoming the crisis in order, among other things, to be able to function in this place, I will take a few seconds, I must also thank the services of the National Assembly for allowing us to work at all. We have outstanding associates in this house, starting with the Secretary-General of the National Assembly and so on. Nevertheless, I must point out something, for in early January this year, the World Health Organization called on countries to wake up and prepare for a possible crisis, a possible pandemic. How much this call has the previous government taken into account, and I leave it to political analysts as well as the medical profession. As far as the current government is concerned, the ministries, I am pleased that people understand. The current government understands people. And once again, in fact, within less than 100 hours of the oath of last Friday here in this assembly, the government has prepared a package of measures, the first five intervention laws. This is, I repeat, the first package, and it's not the last package. We're all actually on the same boat, and I believe and I know we're gonna make it. Surely the crisis will not be short-lived. As the situation in the world shows, we are facing longer-term challenges, so we need effective, thoughtful and comprehensive measures. It won't be a problem if we find out in which of these laws we missed someone unintentionally, we'll fix it, I'll make it up to you. Today, we have a law on public finance intervention on the table. These measures can be divided into tax measures and public finance measures. Here, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I can assure you that the coalition and, I believe, the Government has absolutely no purpose to abuse this situation, this law which gives the Government, of course, greater powers. What is necessary and logical, crisis management simply requires that we give the Government more powers. The Public Finance Supervisory Commission will be led by the opposition because the opposition also has a majority that can at any time require the government from the Ministry of Finance to report to it. I believe the opposition will not abuse it in this regard. As for New Slovenia, we will support this law. I believe the measures will be taken. However, we have never and will never forget the economic operators, especially the small economy, which is definitely the backbone of the Slovenian economy as well as the European economy. It would be ideal, of course, but it is not an ideal solution for us to lose any independent entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs in Slovenia as a result of this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u148	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor! The recession at the door of Europe has been knocking for some time. Today it is clear that it is almost inevitable. We have before us one of the five intervention laws that will mitigate the negative economic consequences of the Coronavirus epidemic. The law provides for measures to ensure that taxable persons are better able to comply with their tax obligations and to operate under tax law. The provision of easier organisation of work from home and the temporary interruption of the work process prolongs the deadlines for fulfilling the obligations under tax legislation. The deadlines for the submission of final accounts and annual reports shall also be extended. It is possible to pay a decree or a ring payment for the tax and for a tax withdrawal without the obligation of the package of interest. The extension of deadlines allows economic operators to better bridge this crisis period, as we welcome in the SAB Group. The law allows for the provision of additional resources which could not be planned in the preparation of the country's budget. The government has adopted a decision to require a rebalancing of the budget for 2020, which is why the implementation of the budget is temporarily delayed for all direct budgetary users. Public administration expenditure is reduced by 30%. Untouched remain only wages. Savings from savings in public administration will aim at infecting and remedying the consequences of the Coronavirus epidemic. However, this will not be enough, as the first package of measures by the new Slovenian government is expected to be worth as much as €980 million. Experience in history shows that no crisis begins for the same reasons and in a similar way as the previous one. In the SAB, we know what it means to run a government in a severe crisis in 2013. We did not have the support and assistance we are calling for today in the opposition. And believe me, that's why we know very well that the government needs to be helped and supported today. We will not oppose the law, but as part of the legislative body we are obliged to draw attention to the provision of Article 11 of the law, which gives the Government the possibility of redistributing spending rights to the budget without limitation. Notwithstanding the crisis situation, the provision must contain a fuse to limit the redistribution of money from wage, pension and social transfers items. The determination was so much more controversial because the initial proposal of the Government completely excluded the legislative body, which is now being remedied by amendments which oblige the Government to report monthly to the Commission on public finances supervision. However, after the outbreak has been declared to cease, the entire report is required to be presented to the National Assembly. Articles 13 and 14 of the proposed law were also controversial. Article 13 provided that the Government itself could change the time limits laid down in this Act and that the Government itself, by decision, could determine when this law would expire. In the SAB Group, we believe that, regardless of the emergency situation, the basic constitutional principle of the division of power still needs to be respected. If the content of the law changes, it must be decided by the legislative body and not by the executive branch of authority. The same applies to the termination of this law. We must be aware that in 2008, following the outbreak of the global economic, financial and even political crisis, the public debt of most countries was much lower than it is today. This will make the coming crisis even more difficult. That is why it is important not to repeat past mistakes. We call on the political options and all Slovenian citizens to come together. The only single country and respect for measures will help us save lives, shorten the period of emergency and prevent long-term financial consequences. We will be able to correct all possible mistakes of the government, but we will never be able to recover human lives. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The characteristics of the epidemic crisis that we are facing in the country are unpleasant, uneasy and worrying situations that endanger people and property and affect stable life and business flows. That is why we would like to address this situation as soon as possible. This is an unwanted and time-limited process, which can only be limitedly affected and the outcome of this impact can be very different. Our goal is to manage successfully. By means of the draft Law on Public Finance Intervention Measures, the Government has drawn up measures which will constitute liquidity aid to the economy by the State with a suspension of the payment of taxes. Thus, it will be possible to defer payment of income tax and corporate income tax, tax withdrawal or tax withdrawal for a period of up to two years, or to pay a tax for a maximum of 24 months for a period of 24 months, due to the drop in income caused by the epidemic. The tax deferral will not be burdened by charging interest at a rate of 2 %, as is the case now, where the permitted tax deferrals are subject to significantly sharper conditions. We expect that such a form of liquidity assistance will enable businesses to exist and provide conditions for business and financial restructuring in a situation of reduced or excessive demand and declining cash flow. Thus, this measure, in addition to other measures, will contribute significantly to limiting the negative financial consequences of the new business environment. The law also provides for administrative relief measures: an extension of the deadlines for proposing a tax invoice and for the submission of final accounts and annual reports. For the functioning of the State, one of the key measures for the preparation of the budget balance is to empower the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by law, to temporarily restrict the implementation of the budget of the State. This will delay the implementation of the expenditure to the financial plans proposalr for more than 45 days or until the adoption of the country's 2020 budget balance. It is envisaged that the Government will propose to the National Assembly a rebalancing of the state budget no later than 90 days after the reasons for the measures introduced by this Act have ceased. The crisis brings conditions that require very rapid decision-making, and these must, if possible, be as right as possible. Time and decision-making pressures contrast with the causes and course of the crisis, which is usually a longer-term process. The characteristics of the situation in which we are are require a different approach to leadership, as is normal. These characteristics are mainly reflected in the highly limited time available for decision-making in the overall event, which is extremely accelerated, in the costs of the necessary resources and the time which are extremely increased. Limited are the material resources on which to rely when choosing measures. The availability of appropriate information resources for decision-making is also limited. The most important measure to manage and manage budgetary policy is to enable the Government to decide on the reallocation of spending rights in the country's budget without restrictions. In this way, the National Assembly will give the Government the highest possible authority to implement the budget in the history of Slovenia. These powers are far greater than those vested in the Government during the financial crisis. With the power of the Government to limit the allocation of spending rights in the adopted budget, the Government will be given maximum flexibility by the National Assembly to allocate budgetary resources for emergency action in the context of the epidemiological crisis. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will also support the law on intervention measures in the public financial field for all these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u152	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The draft Law on Public Finance Interventions is the law in the first package prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to address mainly the economic consequences of the coronavirus. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this law is not the last in the first package to tackle the economic consequences of the coronavirus. And it must be repeated that this is the first package prepared by the government of Janez Janša. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are confident that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance will in the coming days prepare a new package of measures that will mitigate, in particular, the consequences of the virus in the area of economic affairs, economic affairs and, in particular, employees. The main objective of the bill is to limit the impact of the virus epidemic in the field of compliance with tax obligations, while at the same time laying down rules in the field of the implementation of the State budget which allow for the provision of additional resources which could not be planned in the preparation of the State budget. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that at the moment it is necessary to provide more powers to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and in particular more flexibility. As I have already mentioned, it is necessary to prepare measures to protect Slovenian companies, Slovenian workers, Slovenian jobs. These are the key issues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the draft law on public financial intervention. We are also convinced that the debate on the Committee on Finance was in the right direction also in the amendments that followed the amendment to the Committee. We are convinced that the opposition's proposals have also to be taken into account. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that only through cooperation with the opposition can we effectively address all the consequences of the virus epidemic in both Slovenia and Europe. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the Slovenian Government and the Ministry of Finance will also have to use the funds available by the European Commission, as the consequences will be significantly wider than they imagine. I'm sure the government is going in the right direction. The government has prepared the first package of measures, and I am sure that the Government is also preparing a second and third package, which will mainly be in the direction of reducing the consequences of this disaster, which we are facing both in Europe and in the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Before I call you to report, he asked for the word Minister Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me, given that I am today in the National Assembly for the first time as Minister, to present you with a somewhat broader framework that will give you a better understanding of this law and probably a number of subsequent laws. The first thing is, we're in an epidemic that we don't know how long it's gonna take. Secondly, we don't know how strong this epidemic will be. Thirdly, at this point for the first two reasons, we cannot have a final financial impact, I will say under terms negative for this epidemic. And this financial impact right now, I can say, as Minister of Finance, is not the most important thing. At this point, human life is important. At the moment, it is important that for everyone who has a disease for the epidemic, we provide appropriate equipment, suitable medicines. And the Ministry of Finance, and this is a financial law, is the Ministry that will provide money for this equipment and for these drugs. This country does not intend to happen and it will not happen that there is no money for appropriate equipment. Of course, I can tell you what you also read in the newspapers, that these equipment is not enough in all areas and so on. I'm not going into this. But the money for this equipment is enough, and it will be for human life in the future. This is, of course, the most controversial provision relating to the centralisation of public finances, so to speak, will not be centralisation of public finances, within the framework of the 2020 budget. The first measure taken at the first meeting of the Government was that the money was taken from the accounts from the budget items for which there were no adequate legal bases. There were no contracts, there were no relevant other acts, and that money was on hold. As a result, this budget has not been reduced and no one has been reduced and nothing has been taken away. There were amounts reserved for the annual payment, I do not know, from rents, to some costs for the whole year ahead. And that's what we channeled into the budget reserve. The first day was in the budget reserve of 12 million euros. 12 million euros. This money could not provide any equipment, no masks, nothing. Not because they didn't exist, but because it was so little for everything that was actually being done. This is why it is also, to say the centralisation of reallocations, but the budget will be within the framework of 2020. So there's nothing else from that angle. I would like to say here about transparency that every month we will send all the reports. If I had enough personnel and time, I'd send, if you wanted, a day, but let's say a reasonable deadline of one month. You'll get all the reports and you'll get everything about transparency. They're from this point of view, they're an extraordinary situation. It's not an extraordinary situation after the constitution, but it's a different situation. It is necessary to limit the epidemic and we are actually working for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 1a and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? It's an interest in debate. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u156	I need to take a double breath before I start. Because there are some sweet words, and the other is the practice they have been following in recent days because we cannot talk about the months. If we sum up 6 days of this government in 10 points, we go: losing masks; preventing entrepreneurs from working, you can only pay contributions in 2 years; quickly hire a whole number of people; on the streets he wants to send an army; force workers to work without protective means because they are not available; adopt or propose intervention laws by interfering with Parliament's constitutional rights; ban the collection and for that he threatens with 70 to 400 euros; drop testing on the virus; he wants compulsory military service; and today, even this government raises wages. Morals, ethics and honesty are the qualities that politicians should internalise that should grace every policy regardless of provenance. Today, at least on the Committee on Finance, we have already heard that the new coalition, namely the SDS, NSI, DeSUS and SMC, trusts its government and therefore allows it to extend its powers uniquely beyond the constitutional provisions. The expectation or reference to the integrity or responsibility of the holders of any function or branch of authority, business environment or civil sphere is, to say the least, at the root of the social origins. If all of us were honest, then laws, lawyers, politicians, and even judges would not be needed at all because we could have arranged or could not have come to such a situation. It is obvious that you will no longer need us, since you will exclude us from the decision-making processes, as far as finance is concerned, at least in the coming months. But your honesty is already being told today's news. And for the first time in my life, I am truly ashamed to be part of this power, even in the opposition. In the National Assembly, it is not just lawyers and secretaries who have been thanked before. There's cops, there's cooks, there's waiters. In the National Assembly alone, we have employed people to whom we have to pay an extra to the minimum wage. These are the immeasurably good women and girls we meet who are here many times at night and who are cleaning up after us. How many of these are in the public sector, I don't even hope to judge. We did not take care of these people in normal situations, except last year with the regression, when they were immensely pleased to receive €1050 of regression. People worry about what they will put in their mouths tomorrow, what they will feed their children, what they will pay for their meal for the apartment, or the car they urgently need to go to work. The government also raises its salaries by EUR 400. That is, to put it bluntly, even if we know that a lot of honest people will have much lower income in the coming months, 70% of the minimum wage. And if they're lucky, because we're already hearing a lot of forgiveness happening. But how many independent entrepreneurs, espouses who have this raise on their already good salary, on the right salary - I am not saying that the government does not deserve it anymore, but not today, not in these circumstances - this money means contributions for one independent entrepreneur for a month and must earn them bloodyly. I'm actually ashamed. But for you, I wonder if you know this feeling or even this feeling. I'm sorry I'm being so populist today, but the thing really got me back on track. Are we kidding people or what? It's not fair and it's not right. And then all of us get thrown at by this bad light, all the politics that's already already degraded -- you're doing nothing, you're just stealing, you're earning 5,000 euros a month, and I don't know what I'm hearing, and you know it's not true, but for such moves, it's a good time and it's an inappropriate time. But it's an extremely inappropriate time that you've chosen.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague beat me to the punch and brought to the public the indignation that we are witnessing. In the last half hour, three-quarters of an hour, and a few days since we wanted to understand that there are no lefts, no rights, no smarts, no stupids, but we are only Slovenes and Slovenians. But forgive me, what's been happening in the last few hours and a few days, goes beyond all morals and ethics and common farming reason, respected representatives of the government. How dare you, at a time when people find the courage to go to work to provide children with bread, to find time to devote themselves to a normal life that is not a witness to, at a meeting of the Government, to take a measure that is not one that would ensure the safe functioning of critical infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia or the protection of the financial system or the health system, but to improve the existential aspect of government members who have held for the past six days. You leave the prisoners, you drive the students out of your home, you whistle at 100,000 self-employed, micro-enterprises, societies, institutions, institutions, you suggest only a decree not to delete all contributions, you send an army to the road, you want to prevent association and assembly, and you encourage protests. Your Honor! We are here today in emergency situations, and my criticism goes also to leadership and to the decision that today we do not have the basic conditions available, that 90 Members and Members can alternately give their opinion here on such important measures as we are witnessing in these days, which should be united, you were the ones who called on us to help you, we want to help you, but we want to cheer up on all the help that this nation has given to keep united in a time of one of the major challenges it has faced since its independence to this day. Of course, we'll only be able to do it together and I believe we will. But with such measures as we have witnessed to them, especially when I speak not to self-sustainment, but to self-sustaining the ruling, but when I speak, to citizens and citizens at such difficult times, you, not only through the Twitter crisis headquarters, made fun of citizens and citizens when it was most important to communicate publicly and loudly in one voice. You've lost three million masks with some trading that aren't appropriate, or looking for finances in Bosnian financial circles, and you've now transferred this to the government. Well, respectable and respected, where is our dignity? Where is the dignity of the Slovenes and the Slovenians and especially the politicians who rightly throw us all into the same basket these days? I would like, honourable representatives of the coalition and the government, especially those former partners who have decided, in the notes, to help the Republic of Slovenia through difficult times not to take part in the decommissioning of our country. Social Democrats will always be with us where assistance will be offered to citizens and citizens. But we will not go anywhere where it will only be for the benefit of individuals in such difficult times. I am very sorry that we have come from discussions on five measures of such importance to evaluate what should be clear and loud political activities in times of such important challenges as we have witnessed not only in the Republic of Slovenia but more broadly. We'll only be there where we can help, but not in the loony bins. Good luck, Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u159	Thank you very much. You've got a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u160	President-in-Office, I propose that you point out in the debate that we are discussing the draft law on public finance intervention. I am convinced that a German colleague has abused the rules of procedure and abused existing parliamentary practice, has also abused the current situation in which Slovenia, Europe and the world are located. I'm sure for all the subjects he's opened now, there'll probably be an opportunity somewhere else. It cannot, however, open up the topic that it has opened up in the Law on Public Finance Intervention Measures. I believe that the Committee on Finance has taken place in a completely different spirit. I think it's just a bit of a break-up from a member of the Social Democrats. The representatives of the Social Democrats discussed the Committee on Finance in a much different way, significantly more country-specific. I am sure that with your help, the President, for which you are also bound by the Rules of Procedure, we will have to lead the debate differently. And, Madam President, I expect from you that you will not allow individuals in the National Assembly to start populism when we have a proposal for an intervention law in the public financial field at the table. And for everything else, I'm sure there'll probably be time. President-in-Office, act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and, in the event that one of the Members goes beyond the topic of the draft Law on Public Finance Interventions, react in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Pogačnik, for your procedural proposal. I understood the implementation of Mr German as a broader debate, which is also allowed in Parliamentary practice when discussing individual legislative proposals or amendments under Article 1. You have also used this kind of debate many times by colleagues from the SDS party, and I have also left you with a very wide debate on individual topics. So I do not intend to warn Mr German or anyone else who will debate a little more broadly than this text of the amendment. We're moving on. I'm asking. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr Pogačnik, if you have the same procedural procedure, I ask you to abstain or if you have anything else, I give you my word for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u162	Madam President, I am confident that you must conduct the meeting of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I agree with you that Article 1 allows for a broader debate, but a broader debate within the framework of the law we are discussing, not in the context of the general problems of Europe, the world, Slovenia. And I propose that the debate that will now take place be conducted within the framework of the law that we are considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u163	Mag. Pogačnik, I believe you also know that you are proposing or coming from a party that is leading the government that this intervention law was created precisely because of the circumstances that Mr. Germans were talking about. And once again, I repeat, a broader debate on all the circumstances that have prompted today's intervention law to be dealt with, I will allow it on both sides. Now I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I can see that, yes, I'm opening the application. Please sign in. We have three reported discussers. The first one gets the word Mr Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I will explain our amendment to article 11, which deletes this most controversial part of the law, as the Minister himself has named it. This is the part that transfers the powers to have full access to public finances from the National Assembly to the Government. Which means that the effective budget no longer applies, the government has until further, or until 1 September, completely free deadlines, how it will deal with public finances, what it will finance, what it will take. However, if there were no such hearing today, this debate and the amendments to the LMŠ would have no right to be informed. The government would have done things its way until further notice. Only the amendment has brought about the fact that Members and Members of Parliament, who are the Ombudsman, including the Ombudsman of Public Finance, will have the opportunity to learn once a month what the Government is doing with common public money. Mr. Shircelj, if we go in line, I agree with you that the 12 million reserves are absolutely understaffed. I also agree with you that it was necessary to raise money for us to be able to finance urgent matters. I also agree that even the 400 million that you have given now is too small and would share Jožet P. Damjan's assessment more, something similar I have said the last time in the National Security Council that it is necessary to expect a decline in economic activity, not 1.5%, as was last estimated by Umar, but 10% to 15%, we can expect if economic life stops for two months, however it now appears, and it is necessary to strengthen itself significantly more publicly in this regard. Fortunately, the European Union appears to be doing differently in this crisis than it did in the previous crisis. She's not gonna squeeze countries with rigid fiscal rules. On the contrary, countries are calling for every effort to combat the crisis. The European Central Bank also announced yesterday that it will contribute 570 billion helicopter money to solve common problems, to which Slovenia is also entitled. In short, our call is not to cut off other budget users, especially not to abuse these powers that you will take today to take on, I don't know, civil society, independent media, culture. Of course, you will say that these things are not important at the moment and that the priorities are elsewhere, but see, for almost four months, it takes all the powers, the National Assembly will not have any authority to decide on this and in these four months there will be a lot of people who depend on public money, only if it wants to suffer, especially if no one else has control over this, if no one else has a word about it. That's my first call. Look for money where you are offered – the European Central Bank. Today, due to the call from the European Central Bank, the bonds have fallen, and Slovenia can be indebted at negative interest rates. In short, money is available and you don't need to squeeze other budget users, even though you say it's not saving. Saving is a relative concept. It's just saving those items that are going to be reversed. And once again, he won't have a word for it. The other problem I see here is the same as my colleagues had previously warned that we would not have a word on where the money would go. If I make one case. Today, Prime Minister Janez Janša said that the Slovenian Army will begin to complete its troops with a voluntary reserve in the coming days, which we can also interpret by calling on volunteers who have already spoken for themselves to hunt butterflies at the border into the Slovenian army. And we're going to finance it or you're going to fund it. Will the National Assembly have any say in whether it makes sense or not, or whether it can or will it not, or will the Government now take all its powers? The emergency situation has not yet been declared and even if it were, the government does not have the right to use public money in this way as you do today. You don't have the right to decide that you're going to take away someone and, I don't know, fund security in the military. You don't have that right. I therefore call on Members and Members to reconsider their support for our amendment once again before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a lovely greeting on my behalf as well! Since the beginning of this crisis, social Democrats have been trying to be a really constructive opposition, and I believe that this is how we behave. We gave up the debate on the appointment of the Government, we proposed our proposals on how to effectively overcome the current problems, and we somehow believed and trusted that we would work together for the good of our society and for the good of the country. We demand that self-employed people, from small businesses, from innkeepers, from hairdressers, from hairdressers to close their activities immediately, to be solidarity with society, we say: Let's all stay at home. On the other hand, we are reading in the media today that the government raises its wages, that the government on average raises its wages by EUR 400. Do you know who needs 400 euros? Any single entrepreneur who will have to receive money from a variety of credits in 3 months to be able to pay contributions to the State if we do not grant him an exemption. I do not know why we are following the restrictive measures of Austria, France, we will limit the movement on public premises, but we cannot follow their measures in the area of assistance to our own citizens and citizens. As Social Democrats, we cannot support measures that do not take real care of society, but ultimately take care of themselves. What message do we send to citizens and citizens? This is also a broader debate on public expenditure. Why? Because we are also talking about, in the second part of the law, empowering the Government to redistribute itself within the budget lines. Transparency and control of the National Assembly and the Committee on Redistribution shall be suspended in this way. We'll wait 90 days for the rebalancing. And I wonder if there's also a reason that the government can in itself raise wages when they need certain merchants, maybe in a much more extraordinary situation they work, doctors. Wouldn't it be more solidarity to take care of these groups of people and give them a salary raise and take care of them? The degree of transparency or a shift from transparency, which this law also specifically brings, also gives rise to a certain degree of mistrust in the face of such moves as you have enjoyed today. And I really regret them, because if all politicians are trying to act unitedly, to work for some common good, if we understand that we are in an emergency, it also requires common trust. And it requires that the government does not use such measures that arouse resentment in people that are inappropriate at that time. I think we are truly unique here in the European Union at this time. Therefore, once again the call, given that we are talking about a broader package of measures, give, think about people, think about workers, think about self-employed people, release them for at least 3 months, provide subsidies, provide compensation claims for lost income, because at the moment there is a large group of people who have completely lost their income and do not know how to survive their families tomorrow, provide some liquidity reverse resources so that we will not wake up from the health crisis in the worst economic crisis since World War II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. The next one has the word mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u168	Thank you, colleague Tina Hefferle, for your word. What do you want me to say? Indeed, Slovenia is in a very serious situation where we need unity and solidarity. When I use the word solidarity, I must stress this in particular, because this solidarity must be present in all respects. I find it hard to agree to solidarity when some people raise their salaries, while there is no word about pensioners. And here I am particularly angry at the representatives of Desus, who have not mentioned the situation of pensioners in any way, the difficult living conditions, the inability to pay home care or help at home and, on the other hand, their ministers and their state secretaries raise salaries. This is simply unheard of, insolvent and totally inappropriate in this given situation. We must be aware that the Government has taken some kind of austerity measures, has frozen the implementation of the budget, that is to say that certain investments will either stop or be moved to a later period, which means that economic growth and activity are also threatened by the provision of emergency measures, and all of this affects the welfare of citizens. Some will have to reduce their wages, some will not be able to work because of their limitations, so they are not even allowed to work. And I find it unacceptable in this light that state secretaries and ministers raise their salaries, while completely forgetting and overlooking pensioners, especially in the fact that there is a party on the government team whose main mission is to protect the interests of pensioners. I think it's outrageous and inappropriate in a given situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u170	When we talk about these measures and about everything you are saying now, I must first say that whatever raises wages and so on, they are within the framework of a law that actually provides for this. Second, usually every new government has 100 days to sit on its chairs. This government has had five days and has taken these measures, with first measures, those measures that are most urgent on the one hand, and, on the other hand, which are important for entrepreneurs, businesses, the economy and individuals. In the next item, we will talk about another measure to make liquidity easier for each other and to make it easier for them to work administratively. These are not the last measures. The government will come with a whole set of measures, which will not be a buzzer who will not be a buzzer, will be an anti-swif. So from this point of view, I can assure you that we will take care of those who today cannot work because they are prevented by decrees that cannot work because certain institutions are closed, from theatres, museums and so on, I will not list all of them. We'll take care of the pensioners. I'll just take care of those who actually need help. In five days, we can't come with all the action. I can assure you that government teams are working, if you like, not from morning to night, but from morning to next morning. But most of all, those in crisis headquarters, civil protection and so on. And most of all, those doctors, nurses and other staff. And we are grateful to them. But if you expect action in five days in all areas, look, it's hard. At the next point, I will also talk more about monetary policy, about what Mr Mesec has been saying. We won't avoid it. I'd like to tell you more about transparency here. The fiscal world, if you've seen this information, has itself said that there are special circumstances and that in these particular circumstances there is no fiscal rule. In other words: there is no longer a rule that we can spend as much as we actually create. In short, we can spend more to prevent the epidemic and to make life easier for people, especially those who are most affected. And that's what we do. And even today, from the first moment we took over the government, all those expenditure or costs that concern the epidemic, we especially mark, if you want, we'll make special balances and so on, which will be available to you here whenever you want, and every month absolutely. Whenever you want, you'll get all the balance sheets. I'm happy to do that once a month. I mean, I don't know if you want a week, maybe a week, but then we'll just deal with the balance sheets. There's no problem with transparency. And we will take care of all those who are most vulnerable in this epidemic. From this point of view, I may understand that you want this as soon as possible; in a few days, a week, two, three you will get everything on the table, including monetary policy, including what the European Central Bank concluded yesterday and so on. But first he has to lock up there so we can do it. Thank you very much. I can explain something else. There's no problem. I don't know if I have time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u171	Thank you very much. You have five minutes to sign up again, Mr. Secretary, so don't worry. As I see that interest in the debate is still, I am opening the application. Please sign up for anyone who wants to discuss it. We have three reported discussers. The first one gets the word mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u172	Madam President, thank you for your floor. As I have already mentioned in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, this is the first package of legislation. I am confident that in the coming days, for weeks, there will be other packages of law that will reduce the damage caused by the effects of the coronary virus. I'm personally sure one package can't do that. Even if we look at the other countries, Austria, Italy, they are taking measures daily with the main objective of reducing the damage caused by the coronavirus. And as the Minister has already mentioned, the first objective of course must be the health of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the next steps, it is necessary to protect Slovenian companies and jobs and employees. And I am convinced that the Government is acting in the right direction and that all of these debates, which have been held today, including by the opposition, are being taken into account. Also on the Committee on Finance, which was held this morning, we have taken into account a number of proposals made by the parties to the Social Democrats, including in some part of the Levic and on the other hand also the List of Marjan Šarc. We have taken into account the proposal to remain transparent until the National Assembly. And, of course, this law still has a provision with the amendment that the Government will have to report monthly on changes and transfers within the budget. We were aware of that, too, and we accepted it. I appeal to the Government to take further measures, in particular those which will protect Slovenian companies, jobs and employees. In doing so, it must not be forgotten about espacies and micro-enterprises. These are the biggest blow they'll ever have. In fact, the Government has taken measures to close down the activities rightly, and others have done the same. I'm sure the government of independent entrepreneurs won't forget them because they can't. This is one of the key issues. And look, as I have already mentioned on the Committee on Finance today, it is important that the budget is balanced, but today and tomorrow there will be more important health for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and that all this is done to protect businesses and employees or workers. However, I find it unfair that the party of the Marjan Sarca List, with the amendment, is abusing the procedure for discussion. And look, I will now read out the amendment that the List of Marjan Šarc has tabled in Article 1 just to be able to discuss. Madam President, you come from this party too. “In the new 1.A article, a comma is added instead of a dot at the end.” Shame. At a time when the country breaks down, at a time when the virus threatens us, the List of Marjan Šarca abuses the rules of procedure and the article in which it states, I will repeat: "In the new 1.A article, a comma is added instead of a dot at the end." A comma is added instead of a dot! You have misused the rules of procedure, misused the fact that you can debate in these times, despite the fact that the coalition has taken your proposals into account in the transparency of the budget, in the monthly reporting to the National Assembly. Thank you to the List of Marjan Sarcas for such cooperation with the coalition. I don't think that's the way we're going to work in this national council, state forms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Before he gets the word of the next debater, let me correct you, mag, as Chairman, who I also have before me an amendment that has been tabled. Marco Pogačnik. I don't know, you probably can't read the sentence to the end or anything, with all due respect. The amendment to Article 1A, tabled by the LMŠ Group of Members, reads: “In the new Article, the comma and the text ‘or at least until 31 August 2020’ shall be added instead of the comma at the end.” This is the entire content of the amendment and if you were correct in your implementation, you would read the sentence to the end. It is not my custom to get involved in debates by debaters and not to get into a substantive debate, but when you mention some formalities concerning the procedure, and people listen, it would be right for you to read the sentence to the end, because it is not so difficult to read the sentence to the end. We're moving on. Dr. Matthew Tashner Watovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I wanted to start with that note of constructiveness that we're hearing about now, I think, for five, six days, maybe longer. But I think we're going to have to admit at some point that this constructiveness or constructiveness, in a way that you think of as your colleagues in the SDS, will have to be over. What Pogačnik has just learned is shameful for this Parliament. In fact, twice on purpose you have deceived and said that one opposition group is abusing the procedure in order to be able to discuss what you were doing while you were in the opposition, doing several times and in your own legitimate way. But the fact that you're so eccentrically lying about it is embarrassing. I wanted to close the intervention by essentially driving you crazy, and now I'm going to start with this intervention. You're saying that governments usually have a hundred days to be able to sit on their chairs, that there's still time for action. What did you do in the first five days? At the government's first meeting, you replaced the chief of police and the army's joke. We've established some crisis headquarters that we don't even know what the legal basis is for its existence, which is tweeting through some gmail accounts and so on. You're trying to give the police powers to the military, you're preventing movement, you're working against the World Health Organization guidelines on the test method. If you go to look at today's NIZJ results, we don't even have approximately exponential growth in Slovenia, the growth is linear. The measures that some of you have taken so far are obviously more than effective, and this spread of the epidemic is successfully managed. But what you've been doing for the last five days is just putting in place some extraordinary situations so that you can move forward with these policies, which are some, forgive me, completely flawed. You go out to get some masks, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know who, and then they get lost, and they don't get lost, and they don't get lost, and so on. Your interference with the basic competence of the National Assembly, and this is the adoption of the State budget, is totally unacceptable. It is not only the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act, but the reference to the state of emergency and so on. I have a feeling that you're only here to bring some of your agenda that you've been expecting since 2013. If you really want to act constructively, you have the Secretary of State in the cabinet of the President of the Government in charge of communicating with the National Assembly. We have not received a single call or e - mail once so that we can try to reconcile matters. And then you expect what? That we'll be here in the opposition quietly, and we won't be monitoring what's going on. I don't think these things can go that way. And now the garlic on the cake-- raise wages. Yes, Mr. Shircelj said it was within the legal framework. That is true, but when people blink at home, they don't know how to repay the loan, small entrepreneurs, self-employed people are out of work, they don't know how they'll come in the next few weeks, months, state secretaries and ministers raise salaries for two salary classes. That's unacceptable. And then you preach here about how we need to take care of public finances, about fiscal sustainability, and I don't know what when we propose an amendment to ensure that the self-employed are also provided, not postponing the payment of contributions, but an exemption for the duration of this epidemic. And I really can't believe how you can explain these things in this way. Okay, if we didn't raise these wages or step a little bit more tactfully, I'd somehow understand, press our teeth, and we'd confirm these measures, but in such a shameless way, it's really absurd. And once again, that's what I said on the board this morning. In a 1997 constitutional decision, when the budget was divided into twelve and we had temporary funding, Constitutional Judges Jambrek and Sturm wrote in a separate opinion of the Constitutional Court that the budget was one of the key documents under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall draw up a budget for the Government's policies to be carried out. And the fact that you are now in full commitment to the National Assembly, forgive me, once a month reporting to the National Assembly will not solve the problem. And I said in the morning, we could delete it, I still hope it could happen in a vote, and we arranged it with another law. With Zippers, you can stretch the budget or [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Last week, when we discussed how to shorten procedures for the current situation in this country, I was one of the first in the parliamentary group to propose that we be aware of this situation and that we give up the debate because we know that there are challenges ahead of the new government that will require business not from seven o’clock to three o’clock in the afternoon, which will require responsibility throughout the day, and that we do not impose or express our opinions, and we have done so. Even today, to this day, even this morning, Mr Pogačnik mentioned, I was also among those who support, understand, try to understand all the measures taken by the Government, try to be constructive, those who know me, even know that I am not a conflict person. To be honest, the government has done something in these days. I believe, Mr. Shircelj, that this is not a business, as I told you, for eight hours, I believe you are working hard right now. But what we're doing, we've been discussing for six hours now measures that will be the result, which we expect in the coming weeks, months people will be out of jobs, no income. How are we going to ease this, how are we going to guarantee it? And it really pisses me off, and I can't say otherwise, but I wonder if you've lost all your compass to take one of those stupid money measures to raise those wages. I would like to comment, Mr Šircelj: What message did you give to our citizens and citizens with this? Having activated Jelko Kacin, probably for the purpose of saying that we will calm people in this country, and then with such a lame one, we even have Slovenia in the luft for a couple hundred euros. I believe you have in your e-mails, as we do -- all bitter from all over the country. There's only so much I'm angry and I'm ashamed to be in here today, really. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the budget and the possibility of a greater redeployment. This marriage and this solution would not have been possible if there had not been an epidemic, I am sure that not and everyone would have lived peacefully on. So from this point of view, unfortunately, I had to prepare this marriage, unfortunately because it's an epidemic and because people are dying and because people are in the hospital and because they need medical equipment because they need to be provided with beds because they need to be provided masks because they need to be provided with oxygen bombs because it needs to be co-financed. When the whole world needs masks, understand that it's a little harder to get them. When the whole world closes its borders, understand that it's a little harder to bring them in. And at this point it is also a solution and it has already been an appeal that even to all those who are actually working in hospitals today, doctors and so on will actually be rewarded. And these are the first measures after five days of this government. The next one comes very quickly, in a few days, I don't know, I can't tell you how many days. And I said that in those measures we will take care of all those who have lost their jobs that cannot do business today because they are actually banned, they are not allowed. We are certainly working on this, and later on in the next law, I will also talk about stopping businesses to stop entrepreneurs from failing, so that they don't fail, because we believe that these epidemics will eventually be over. And once this epidemic is over, we believe that then economic growth will improve very quickly and that people will start to work so that normal life will go on and on, as it did before. And no other agenda, today the government is dealing with no other agenda than saving people's lives and actually limiting the epidemic. Look, that's why they are you, and now I'm going to go to the marriage, respected Vice-President, because we're just allowing people not to have to deliver forms so quickly and we've put in, yes, also a provision to extend it. Look, if I knew this epidemic was gonna be over in a month, I wouldn't have made that provision. But when I look at the world analyses, the world debates, when it will be, look, I'm sorry, I can't find this date where someone can assure me when this epidemic will be over, they can even say, "Yes, it will be over soon, it will be a little bit smaller in summer, and then it will happen again in autumn." I don't want to scare you, but that's what they call the analysis of all the world's analytical agencies, whoever you want. And it's not here now that the finance minister wants to have all the finances in his hands and distribute them, see, here I want and we'll give you a report every month. Each budget shall be reviewed by the Court of Auditors. Every budget. And please, that's what I'm asking. And he will. And there you will actually see whether these expenses, costs, were actually justified or unjustifiable in this regard. They will be very transparent, I have already said today that all expenditure is specifically recorded, especially colored if you want. And the Fiscal Council has actually allowed us to ignore fiscal rules on our own. In this law, we are actually talking about being able to finance more health care, allowing for a postponement of taxes or interest payments, and so on, and that we will be able to issue these tax forms later. I think there's something positive here.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Well, you see, Mr Pogačnik, I have also left a slightly broader debate on social issues or conditions to the Minister. As I see that interest in the debate remains, I am opening a new application. Please sign in. We have three reported discussers. The first one gets the word Dr. Franz Ducky. Get ready, Mr. Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'm listening to this whole office meeting. If one of the first two hours, two and a half hours was anything like that, I think we're getting a little lost right now. I'm always a constructive Member, and I will be now. There is a 148th Article of the Constitution, which says very clearly that something like this is proposed here, would require a two-thirds majority of Members of the National Assembly. And even if it were suggested by a government that would chair it or be Finance Minister Matthew Tashner Vatovec or colleague Han or someone from LMŠ would be against it. How long is this gonna take? I've been doing this since the end of December. One of the companies that deals better with the coronavirus is South Korea, which also has one of the best health systems in the world. They've been quarantined for nine weeks. And it'll probably take at least that long. Some serious predictions show that if there is some happiness and solidarity within the EU as well as by China and by whom, Italy will reach its summit in mid-April. We do know what the real economic consequences will be - Mr Shircelj, I am reading all of this - are not yet known. And these are actually some facts. Even if you go to the website of the National Assembly, where it says about the mission of the National Assembly, there is one, I think the third indent is: “The National Assembly is the custodian of the budget.” This is essentially in all constitutional parliamentary democracy. And now we don't have some kind of war state in the way that planes like 30 years ago are flying, and someone in the basement has to make decisions. In that case, he would probably decide and support this two-thirds majority. I can understand Janša's desire to give some of the people you're really working for in some way. I have a very constructive proposal - a well-favoured working time. This year, all of you working in the government count 9 months for a year. All those working in health care count for six months. Pike's over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The next one has the floor, Mr Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u182	Thanks again. It's amazing how in this building, even in this room, he keeps turning his words around and assigning meanings to where they are, and takes them where they really are. In the entire process since 13 March forward, we have all been very constructive here, which you have acknowledged. But once it's not a joke anymore. What did I hear today? In a hundred hours you've prepared five extremely complex laws. And you're bragging about it. The laws aren't right. Because if they were, they would immediately confirm to me, given our cooperativeness and constructiveness. There's nothing wrong with these laws, and you don't want to hear it. And since you don't want to hear it, you're just going to vote us over. But that doesn't mean we'll be quiet. What did we propose in article 1A in the amendment? Longer than August 31st. I will also read the explanation: "The proposal for a new 1.A article proposed by the coalition parties still does not set an absolute deadline for the measures under this law. It is only within a limited and agreed time limit for a decision to extend deadlines to the Government. The proposed date, however, is far enough to satisfy current knowledge of the situation. If the situation changes so much that specific measures should be extended longer than a good five months, we believe that only the National Assembly can be the institution that decides to extend such deadlines." So we actually want to make it easier for you not to take all the responsibilities, but to share them, and we will support you in the National Assembly. Five months is the extreme time when, according to some estimates, this epidemic could come to an end. And then we listen to another 12 million from the intervention funds. I've heard 400 million today. You've already spent $400 million on protective equipment. That was explicitly said on the board today. In the coming weeks, I will ask you the question of whether this is true and where this 400 million went. Of course, health first, then existence. You are predicting new laws and specific laws, for employment, for those who are forgiven. But all we have seen so far have been some fiscal measures that, according to economic theorists, are not enough to properly address the current crisis because they will have no effect. Of course, let us first take care of people and be able to heal them if they get sick. We're talking about an agenda. The only agenda I see in this law at all is to pass the law, pass the constitution of an emergency. Comrade Vatovec has already shown you all this well. Quarantine, movement limitation, is a constitutional category. The closure of the premises, the restriction of the business initiative, is also a constitutional category. The restriction of association is a constitutional right. Now the activation of Article 37a is announced to win an army with police powers. All of this is without a legal basis and directly interferes with the constitutional rights of all citizens and citizens. So far, it's on a voluntary basis because we see some point in this. But that way it can't go on. Fiscal world, when did he call? Only on an explicit call when you were questioned, Mr. Shircelj. In addition to being self-initiative, of course, they said that the fiscal rule on emergency situations no longer applied. This was a huge case for us when the work material went out on the budget, but now all of a sudden everything is fine and the Fiscal Council has also assessed so little over your coalition contract and given that it is so general and that such a situation, they are still in agreement with it. And also that there's not actually going to be a fiscal rule. When we speak - to take advantage of the opportunity to conclude all of this - on the amendment to Article 11. We allow you with this amendment to allocate funds, but we retain the role of Parliament. Do you have tools for redistribution? Sure. Do you have a chance of rebalancing? You've got it. Do you have a majority in Parliament? Yes, you do. Or is it so hard to give, I don't know, seven, eight balances, even a month. Even if we're against them, you'll vote them down. Let us maintain at least the minimum standard of a constitutional democracy, but not on the shoulders of people's fear of this terrible disease and the terrible condition of creating an unconstitutional state. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u184	Thank you very much. We don't create emergency situations. The epidemic creates extraordinary conditions. The second thing I would like to do, Mr Pavšič, is to forgive me for addressing you, you have been talking here about the activation of Article 37, the quarantine, the limitation of movements and so on. This law does not provide for this. This law provides that the debtors will be able to pay their tax bills later. This law provides that they will actually be able to pay taxes more easily. This law also stipulates that the budget will be centralised and that transfers under the budget can be carried out by the Government, with your amendments actually being reported once a month. From this point of view I don't know, you say by 31 August everything will be fine, so there will be no more epidemic, that everything will be great. I hope that your words will actually come true. I hope this is going to be a long time ago, but I don't have the assurance. From this point of view, I am here to defend a law whose main content I have told you in three points. And once again, this law makes it easier for us to manage the economy and, secondly, we guarantee money that we can pay what is most necessary. You say, seven to eight rebalances we can give, quote you. See, yes, probably 15 too, but, you know, the matter is next to take up a balance in the National Assembly, you know that the budget has a special procedure and this process takes place, including extraordinary meetings and so on in the budget rebalancing. It takes days and weeks. Unfortunately in these times, time means life. This would therefore be simply unethical and inhumane in order to actually have so much time, but in the meantime we would be blocked in some way to redirect the resources for what people need most today, this is for health and for having adequate health care. Here's the problem. Once again, as Finance Minister, I assure you that every month you will receive the full report, will be dealt with by the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, will also review the budget by the Court of Auditors, and we will also talk here or you will talk about the final account of this budget, whatever. The purposes that we want to achieve by this law are good, are good for people, so that we can step up faster, because at this time, forgive me, a very long way would be with the budget rebalance for each item or for a few items together.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mr. Pavšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u186	Thank you. We have already stated in our position that we generally agree with two thirds of this law, but the devil is always in detail. But this last third is very questionable for us and for many of my colleagues. When we talk about payment deadlines and delays, of course, we welcome this very much, but we cannot abolish the powers of the National Assembly. When you say time means life, it's already creating some extra pressure, of course that means, and we're all aware of that. But some rhetorical gymnastics must always stay put, it doesn't make sense. [[…]] You've accepted our amendment, but you've adjusted it to yourself again. You say the Ministry of Finance will report to the National Assembly. No, we want him to report to the Commission on the supervision of public finances for a reason. Because once this law is adopted, we all know that it will be adopted, there will be no more budget and Parliament will no longer have, almost for the next few months or until the Government decides to end the epidemic, this Parliament will no longer have any impact on the budget, no matter how many times and how qualitatively you report.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Before we open a new debate, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I will insist on my claim, in my opinion, that the opposition has shown all its constructiveness by this point. Why? Because I know it hurts, and it's only now that many of you, dear colleagues and colleagues, are coming up with the fact that happened on January 27th. That's when Mr. Marjan Sarec stepped down. We didn't crash it, New Slovenia didn't collapse it. None of the current coalition parties have brought it down. And now I'm trying to somehow give the common denominator or look for a cross-sectional set of claims or opposition demands, and it's very hard to find a cross-sectional crowd, or to this point this crowd is empty. I agree with Dr. Trčko, who says that he has actually taken up examples of good practice from South Korea. Nine weeks in quarantine. But some of you, colleagues and colleagues, are telling us that we're preventing people from hanging out and so on, that it's freedom and so on. No, we're just listening to the expert, that's all. The profession tells us how many hours the virus is in the air, on this table, on the doorknob, and so on. Well, I know you don't believe us. Maybe it would be good to call someone from the National Assembly. But I don't know if you'll all believe it. I hear the army's already on the road. I went to check it out, but it didn't. It's not. A hundred times have been said, starting with the President of the Government, the Minister of Finance, we have spoken to coalition members, the coalition, the government are preparing a law that will financially help everyone. As for us, New Slovenia, it will be very difficult for us to accept if we lose one independent entrepreneur because of this crisis, although we all know that there are no ideal measures and that the country has some limited financial capacity. These measures, which are now here in these five intervention laws, yes, I repeat, and I am proud to say that within a hundred hours of this government not a hundred days, within a hundred hours the government has prepared them. I believe they're not ideal because there are no ideal laws. But now let us try to simulate life, yes, including economic operators, how we would function without these measures. So far, thank God, and thank you once again for the opposition's vote on the native working bodies, these measures have been taken. It is perfectly normal for the opposition's fantastic tools to be increased if any wages are paid, even to political officials. There is little need to compare with the countries to which we like to compare. As far as I know how many hours ministers are working today, I have calculated that the Slovenian minister has a net of EUR 7 per hour there. We also raise our salaries to Members. Our new colleagues and colleagues who came to this meeting today are Members of Parliament, because you know what pay grade. Tomorrow, when they have three committees, when the vice presidents, when they are presidents, we will raise their salaries. And so is it. They're going to high school. And it's all under the law. I'm ready to get the bombs back, and I'd probably be better off politically paying to be quiet right now. As far as the budget is concerned, we have the Court of Auditors, which is the mechanisms that are in place. And if we said the government should report to the National Assembly. Isn't this bigger than just the Public Finance Supervisory Commission? And for a reason, the opposition has a majority and leads the Commission to oversee public finances. If she wants to bargain, she'll be able to call a meeting every day, and she'll ask the finance ministers in this house every day, but she won't do anything else if she wants to bargain, and I believe she won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Since the interest is still in the debate, I'm opening a new round of applications. Please sign in. We've got five reported discussers. The first one gets the word, Mr Robert Pavšič. Get ready, Mr. Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u190	Great, thank you so much for actually wanting a replica. Nobody's judging you or anyone's talking about the fact that raising wages in the government is illegal, that it's against the law. We have pointed out that he is inappropriate at this point, and this is extremely inappropriate. When we speak of our amendments and our wishes, only two amendments have been made to the third reading in order to enter into the law of the absolute deadline, and this is the end of August, if this period is to be extended, it can be extended, the law amended, and the Commission for the supervision of public finances is regularly reported. As long-standing opposition MP, you probably know how the opposition works through these committees, but that was your practice, which is why you know it so well. Every pollen possible we could get, we got it. It doesn't hurt me that our President and our Prime Minister have resigned, but probably you, at least I would be very hurt if today's salary rise in the government, where Nova Slovenija has three ministers and probably even a number of other people. There's nothing wrong with that. But it would hurt me that after six days, and some are probably not at work for six days, they get an extra 300 to 400 euros on such a good salary. As far as the profession is concerned, at least be consistent. If you had listened to the profession, you would have taken into account the World Health Organization or WHO expertise and put back on the Coronavirus test. That's what the profession says. And now I'll probably get the replica right back. I'll go out, I'll listen to you in writing so that this dialogue doesn't start because it's not very productive.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u192	Mr Pavšič, calmly, this will have a better impact on all of us and also on those who accompany us. Yeah, I'm glad you mentioned World Health Organization and Testing. It's testing and it's being carried out. But there's something else you won't like, but the truth is, in early January, WHO warned, urged countries to be alert to be prepared for a possible epidemic, a pandemic. At the beginning of this year, so January, I think you led the government. Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. And the next one's a mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u194	Thank you very much. However, I thought this session would be over sooner, and I must tell you that no emotion would piss me off, even the various moves of the government today by lifting wages and the masks by making a statement on the street of the military. It really didn't piss me off because I'm aware that people have the same problems with this information. I would like to end this debate in a constructive spirit and, above all, in solving the problems that have accumulated, they will accumulate and I think they will remain no matter how we are about to get confused. With regard to these salaries, even I think that the majority of the Members in this National Assembly of the Coalition did not even know that they had raised their salaries in the Government. But since I know, it's only necessary to defend the government a little bit, but the task of the opposition is, of course, to warn. Piarovski and so on I think that all of you who have long been in politics know that in my opinion the Government has made a mistake, but this will have to be on its own, I really don't care about this moment. Jože talks about hundreds of hours, he forgets only one thing, the main law, and the biggest law is the partial payback law written by the previous government, Mrs. Klampfer wrote it, you fixed it a little bit. Then there are four laws that are relatively short. And all we wanted and what we wanted and what I think is hard for you to defend yourself is this story, without passing on to craftsmen, espouses and so on, because you're all saying that you'll be helping with the money so we can help and return. Why do we simply write off these three months, write off our contributions, write off their income, write off their taxes, because they had to close their premises because of the State's actions, write them off, and then somehow solve the matter? That was one thing we really want in the opposition. And secondly, we do not want you to suspend Parliament in controlling the use of budgetary resources. Yes, I am aware that budgetary resources must now be allocated to medical equipment and so on, absolutely. Is 400 million too much or is 400 million too little? I don't know, and I wouldn't dare judge. But at least it is for the Public Finance Supervisory Commission to look each month at where and how the State or Government has access to these funds. Is that such a problem? After all, the opposition has the hope that we will get the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances and the majority in this committee, because this allows us to do so, and we can call on the Commission for the supervision of public finances every day. Every day we ask if masks are paid where you put the money. We can do this every day. But we're not the opposition that we're going to be burdening the Minister of Finance with no connection, so let's talk about a gentlemen's agreement. I would be even more pleased with what the Left has proposed to delete this Article 11. But no. And then on this day all this information, of course, that at the end of the day at ten o'clock in the evening, we're all nervous, and this constructiveness, which was now two or three days, is slowly disappearing. And I understand the colleagues who got upset, but really the opposition made few suggestions, we understand the situation. But I can't imagine, dear friends on the other hand, what would happen if we were on this side. You in yours, I'll say, bring the best part of us out of this National Assembly. We know each other. Therefore, please, we still have time to accept these amendments, support some amendments of the opposition, because it will also make it easier for you, and above all it will be easier for the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I have to deny it, I have received information, I have not been on the committee, but I have received information that none of the government representatives have mentioned that 400 million have been used. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, it has already been mentioned before, I agree that 400 million are spent on health care or masks and so on. On the government's side, he didn't mention anything about it, according to my information I got. So I can't confirm it here. Talk here. I didn't say anything. Someone opened this debate. I can't confirm this information, and he didn't say anything from the government side. Another thing that, I can confirm again, we are not suspending Parliament. The government doesn't suspend parliament. Parliament will, once again, monitor spending every month and we have no problems with that. Next thing you know, what Member Han said about these people who, on the basis of a decree, a state decree, if you want, or a municipal, lost their jobs, lost their business, I repeat, are preparing measures for them. Different, diverse, and I repeat again, it is about keeping these companies in place to keep these entrepreneurs in place, so that when the epidemic is over, they can start working immediately. And at the same time, well, I'm not a nervous, respected colleague of Han, but I would appeal to everyone's constructiveness if that were possible. These are the first steps. We'll come with them. To constructiveity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u198	Minister, you misunderstood me. I said you've kept 400 million dollars in the state budget and that you'll spend 400 million on buying, probably, health equipment. As much as you spend, of course this is your thing, but of course you can't buy a mask for 400 million. I get that. That's one thing. The other thing is, yes, we'd suspend Parliament if we didn't get the amendment from one side or the other. Because the law clearly states that you will report after three months after the end of the epidemic. What's going to happen in the middle of this, nobody knows. That is why we have said whether this article should be deleted or whether it should be reported monthly to the Commission for the supervision of public finances. And that was the minimum that we achieved with the help of Mark Pogačnik. Nothing else. These are the things I was talking about. How much does it cost, normally, speculators are in the game, prices are up, I'm clear, but for 400 million equipment we probably can't buy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u199	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mag. Marko Pogačnik has the floor to prepare Mrs Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u200	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. We've been following your suggestion. The monthly report to the National Assembly would have been adopted by the amendment already on the Committee on Finance and I am sure that it will also remain in the final version of the proposed law. My colleague Pavšić, I hope that he is listening in the office, but that is all I would say, we cannot write in the law itself to report monthly to the Commission on the supervision of public finances, because in the very process of the Council of State it cannot be so, but when the National Assembly receives this report, it will automatically be classified as being considered by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. It's an existing practice and there's no worries about anyone else. This means that the Public Finance Supervisory Commission will deal with these matters, which will then also be amended, and with transfers by ministry. This was an agreement and this agreement remains. We are aware that transparency is important and that 100% cannot be excluded from the process itself. But it is necessary to be aware of the situation in which we are, that the Government has more power and that the Government can also be more flexible and that there is no need for any matter to knock on the door of the National Assembly. However, my colleague Han said well, and the Rules of Procedure allow the opposition to call on the Commission to oversee public finances every day. I am sure that there is no hero in the National Assembly today who hopes to predict what the consequences of this virus will be, not for Slovenia, not for Europe, not for the world. And that's why it's necessary to coordinate daily, weekly. And as I have already said, this is the first package, and I am sure that the Government is working on other packages that are going to plague this crisis in particular. On the other hand, one part of the opposition was constructive today, but it was constructive until 19:00 and 20 minutes. But then, on the basis of one thing, I'd say, the manipulation of some media thing started to behave differently. I don't think it's ever been a problem before where the pay grade is going to be classified by the minister. And it is also the responsibility of the President of the Government to determine the burdens that ministers have. And it wasn't about any raises, as you're saying now, but it was just a reallocation within framed classes, which are also allowed, given the burdens. And not to deceive. And don't succumb to some manipulation and jump right now, and that at the moment when sensitive things are. Sensitive things are not only in Slovenia, but, I would say, also due to external factors. But before that, you spoke to the army and everything. Italy's sending an army to the Fernetics, about 200 to do the work. I mean, the matter is serious and let's say we all do it together and thank our colleague Han, who said that I was just constructive and also with some help from the committee itself. I think we need to be aware, and I will always speak, even with the help of the opposition, we get a better marriage. And that's in the key interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs. Monica Gregorčič, and prepare yourself for Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. After a discussion by my colleague, Mr Han and the Social Democrats, I am still a little calm, because he has proven himself again today, and I have to praise him once again as a voice of reason from the opposition, because some opposition colleagues before him today, according to my assessment, have passed this hour a measure of good taste. Their speeches were essentially pre-election agitation. I hope the voters are proud of you, but in these circumstances I think that people appreciate unity and that we know politicians to step together, listen to professional arguments, listen to good suggestions and then do something good together. But some, yes, I think today have missed the timing, because no, but we are not before the elections in a pre-election battle, although some wanted to be today, but I think that the situation is not such that anyone else could wish it today is a little too serious. To report to this government that it is taking some excessive measures, at such difficult times, such a difficult situation, is completely depressed. To allow himself to do so, however, Member of the List of Marjan Šarc, whose president has recently led the government and has not reacted properly, this is a great deal of misdirection, manipulation, deception. Yes, and if you want, the LMSH has passed today's acceptance exam for the opposition. Deception over the 400 million euros spent on purchasing protective equipment, protective masks, is one such manipulation. I also told you today at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, I provided information on the EUR 400 million allocated by this Government under the current Law on Public Finance and the applicable Law on the Implementation of Budgets, which it has redistributed to the budget item for reserves. These 400 million have not yet been used, but they are intended for use for emergency purposes. Among these urgent needs in today’s situation, I think we all understand that buying protective equipment is also a must. There was something very important today - the role of Parliament, parliamentaryism. An absolute warning in place. It's right to point out that in the opposition. Once again, however, it is a bit twofold that this is highlighted by the party, Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, when we know how the former Prime Minister of the Government behaved at the end of the day, even during his appearance in this House, what his attitude towards parliamentaryism was. So once again, when you tell us from the opposition that we are taking the wrong excessive measures, we don't know if they are excessive, we don't know, we can't assess whether they are proportionate, because we don't know what the consequences will be, how we'll be able to remedy the emerging situation, not just economically, in the social sense, in the health field. Today's package of measures is just that first response. It has already been said that the Government is preparing a set of some more sophisticated measures, which, I very much believe and hope, will also address the issue of espionage and penitentiary workers, and I am deeply convinced of this, so that we give time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. This session has been going wild since about five o'clock this afternoon. After six years in the National Assembly, I'll tell you what's best for me if I'm polite to the sayings. Three-quarters of the time we're talking like some couple who don't have the balls to get divorced, like Levi and me, who's to blame for what they did back there. You know, I could remember, Monica, when Cerar, the constitutional lawyer, called Kordish, said he wouldn't ask for his access this time, which he can't do as a constitutional lawyer, and he can't do as Prime Minister. But let's stop fucking around for real. As far as constructiveness is concerned. I am the man who asks the most questions in this National Assembly. As long as this Coronavirus crisis is over, I'm not setting it up, because I know it means another additional task to the government's ministerial teams. If I do, if there's something ecclatanally wrong or disturbed, I'll use that other business mechanism when I suggest something to the government. I hope I don't need that. My friend Horvath is out there, and this pathetic NSI, it's no longer to live, frankly, who's in pain, who's not in pain. All 90 of us are equally responsible. If not, we, fuck, show the article in the law, in the constitution, in the rules of procedure that says we're here, I don't know if I won't say d, because I have a language at the end if we're in opposition. [[…]] I won't say. We're all equally responsible. But I'm in pain of stupidity and I'm in pain of unconstitutionality. Article 110 of the Constitution ends, irrespective of any government, “ corresponds to the National Assembly”. Article 148 of the Constitution speaks of a budget, two-thirds and so on. We are still a constitutional parliamentary democracy. Pika. And, Comrade Shircel, I'd like to ask you something else. Jansha was paraphrasing me at the time, but he didn't tell me, Sumerians. Does anyone in this country count? We have a few ten people on Umarj, a few hundred people are at Banka Slovenije, a few hundred people are at the challenging ministry you run, and I would finally like to start talking to them, and not those pennies are some kind of frnicule, at Zeus and three hundred hairy Rosamahs, I would start talking because I've been here for six years on the basis of some screenplay, where we are, how we are, not a little bit over the thumb, but how the wind blows. And I know quite a few people who know how to do that, and at the SID Bank, maybe some of the chief analyst we've proposed for the governor, but you disagreed with him. I expect this in the debates in the National Assembly, especially because times will be difficult. And now, if I were you, Comrade Shircelj, it seems to me that this is responsible for any country, for someone to decide for themselves over €10 billion. And that is why there are so-called checks and balances in all constitutional parliamentary democracy, and this is really what this is about, and it seems to me that we, too, must share in politics. And it is not only what measures we take, but also how we take them and how we communicate this adoption. And if it's ever important, it's important at a time like my friend Mirt Komel defined very well when people have some kind of panic, when it's a little bit more than fear, you can take a little bit of fear if it's a guest, but here we don't know this relatively large virus that we're basically carrying around on our shoes. And it seems to me that the message of all policies should also be some kind of trust in people. We expect people to act rationally, responsiblely, but here we're going to go some kindergarten spoiled kids, when everyone's going to swim, I'm super cool, everyone else is to blame. And everyone who has been in power so far in Slovenia has screwed up, in their own words, and has done something good. And let's stop shitting, we don't have time for this, we have to generalize the curve. Or talk about it, when the microphones are turned off, I mean, like an old woman I have at the end of my tongue, and he was unjust to older citizens and citizens, who are guilty of unconsciousness and backwardness. It's probably that monkey that climbed down from the tree. Let's get real.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs. Gregorčič has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. Just a few words. I agree with my colleague Trčko, let's stop cleaning back, but I simply had to respond to some of the allegations or provocations of my colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u207	Thank you so much for that short replica. The word was wanted by the minister. Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I would answer to Mr. Duck what he asked in the hotline, or who's counting. Yeah, we're counting. Be sure every euro counts. And another issue, as we are talking about the epidemic, is also accounted for by different scenarios, so we would probably need a special meeting to present all these different scenarios on the epidemic, the spread of the epidemic and the costs in this connection. In the case of scenarios, however, the question is which is more realistic and which is less realistic, and in so many billions it actually goes. That's all it is, and this is now health science, and medical science is dependent on finance. And anyway, the funding will be as long as it can actually exist, if this epidemic goes on forever, then not only will there be no finances, there will be nothing else. After this epidemic, I think life will be completely different.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u209	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Dr. Runch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u210	Yes, Comrade Shircelj, I fully agree here. All I'm going to say is, I'm going to deliver these calculations to me because I have some experience with the government of Mira Cerar when one ministry wanted to deliver to me, and then the Ministry of Finance banned them. I can read it. I've done it in my life. Please deliver it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I ask if there is still interest in the debate. I note that no, so I am closing the debate and moving on to Article 10. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Ambassador of the Group of the Left. Anybody want a word? I see you don't. We're closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors, the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I also conclude the debate on the amendments to be decided today in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to 3B of the agenda, that's a second defensively proposed law on the INTERVENTIVE MEASURE OF THE PAYMENT OF THE LEGAL OBLIGATION OF LEGAL OBLIGATIONS OF THE LEGISLATORS. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the Minister for further explanation. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members and Members! By means of this intervention law, the Government wants to contribute to solving the problems faced by companies, individuals operating in sectors most affected or affected by the Coronavirus epidemic in the coming weeks, and because of liquidity problems they cannot or will not be able to repay liabilities to banks in a timely manner. On the basis of today's additions adopted by the Committee on Finance, this law also includes natural persons, societies, institutions, institutions, in fact all those with any credit. The proposal provides that, when certain conditions are met, the bank may decide to pay its obligations under the credit agreements concluded with companies, cooperatives, companies, establishments, institutions, natural persons who employ persons, self-employed persons, agricultural operators, farmers and natural persons for a period of 12 months or up to 12 months. The same will apply to credit contracts that will be renegotiated during the period of validity of the law. The Bank and the borrower may also agree on a different decision which will be more favourable for the borrower. The deferral period was not chosen randomly but was the result of consultations with the Bank of Slovenia. This took into account the current situation in the Slovenian banking system, which, after all the measures taken at the level of the European Union during the post-banking crisis period, is stable, and we must not forget the positive effects of the last resolution of the banking system, which currently makes the Slovenian banking system a very good liquidity and capital opposition, which also makes it possible to implement the proposed postponement. Otherwise, we should look for other, probably less efficient solutions or risk having banks that are also important to the national economy as a result of these measures. Here I would like to point out that, of course, this is just one of the monetary solutions, there are others, and also those others will probably come in line when the government accepts them, probably in a very short time. The decision to pay the liabilities under the credit agreements will be open to those borrowers who, for reasons related to the consequences of the Corona virus epidemic, will not be able to provide payment of the liabilities under the credit agreement with the bank. However, the decision to pay the liabilities under the credit agreements will be unconditionally granted to those borrowers, except large companies carrying out an activity for which a government or municipal decision has provided for the provision of services or the sale of goods due to an epidemic of the Coronavirus. These are in fact all those independent entrepreneurs, all those affected by the measure banning the temporary prohibition of the exercise of an activity. Since this is an intervention measure, we propose that the law enter into force immediately after the publication of the Official Journal, with measures still in force for 18 months after the end of the Coronavirus epidemic. Your Honor! This law puts forward the Government's first emergency response to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus epidemic. In terms of ensuring the stability of the economic system in the country and maintaining jobs, I think it is essential to ensure that economic operators are able to continue to operate in crisis situations despite their poor liquidity position. However, this will not be the only measure in this area, as I can point out that the Government will in the shortest possible time draw up systemic legislation to further mitigate the consequences of the Coronavirus epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The draft law has been examined by the Committee on Finance and I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 35th urgent meeting today, the Finance Committee considered the proposal for an intervention measure law to postpone the payment of the obligations of creditors proposed by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory explanatory memorandum, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives and objectives of the draft law, which are mainly to defer payment of obligations under the credit contracts of those borrowers who will be faced with impaired operations due to the virus epidemic for a period of 12 months, as well as the obligations for borrowers who will receive a deferral of payment of the credit and thereby associated control and the envisaged fines. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of the Service. In the debate, the majority of the members and members expressed support for the bill. The need to include natural persons, societies, institutions and institutions in the draft law was expressed. It has been pointed out that the economic consequences of the epidemic must be tackled both for businesses and for people and additional measures must be taken, and these measures must be swift, professional and comprehensive. Doubts were expressed regarding the moratorium on credits in terms of later possible abuses that could cause a new bank hole in Slovenia and the question of the possible insolvency of claims. With regard to the moratorium on the deferral of loans, the question of late interest was also raised. During and after the discussion, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance answered the questions raised and provided further clarifications. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered the amendments tabled. The Committee adopted all 10 amendments tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. However, the Committee did not accept the two amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors and the four amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Pollnar. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jani Prednik will be the first to present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u216	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, one fine evening! Several discussers have already said that we will need many and varied measures to deal with the current situation, so many of these should come on the agenda in the coming weeks. One measure aimed at facilitating the financial burden of the Corona virus epidemic is a temporary delay in the payment of credit obligations. Many companies have open credit obligations to service their activities. The Coronavirus epidemic has disrupted the economic and commodity flows and therefore the bank's demands for strict and timely repayment of commitments could lead to insolvency and even bankruptcy. The fear of this is certainly not unfounded, even if we remember how selfish the banks were in the last crisis, when companies were sinking their demands and thereby plaguing jobs in active companies. We can't let them do this this time. Banks must not destroy jobs undermined by the current epidemic. The bill thus offers an opportunity for all companies to agree with banks on a resolution or re-programme of credit obligations if they have voluntarily taken measures to limit the spread of the virus. However, for companies that have stopped their business because of instructions from the authorities, the credit commitment decree for banks will be mandatory without specific explanations. We believe that this is the right step, which, in combination with others, will at least partially address the current problems of employers who are trying to maintain jobs, so we also support it in the Group of Social Democrats. In this law, too, we can put forward an interesting perspective for the preparers, which they have already used in the Act on Labour Market Measures. It is the belief of some that only economic and profit operators are affected. In the light of the original proposal of the law, the deferral of credit obligations would be granted only to companies, but not to individuals who will also be affected by the crisis. This was a negative surprise, as it became clear in the first days that jobs were not only at risk. People in Slovenia and abroad are already losing jobs as well as their income. We are therefore pleased in the SD that a supplement has been adopted on the Committee, which also allows individuals affected by the epidemic to postpone payment of credit obligations. This will at least make the future a little easier for people, which is certainly uncertain. In recent days, we have repeatedly stressed the need for all cooperation and the adoption of a variety of measures in order to successfully combat the epidemic. Deferrals of payments of various obligations for the affected will be important, but not sufficient. For many, especially smaller entities, we will also have to cut down on active subsidies and compensations, as these do not have their own resources to lay down. Their survival depends on the rapid and effective response of the country. Therefore, in the SD Group, with the support of the proposed law in the coming weeks, we expect new active solutions from the Government to ensure that the consequences of the epidemic do not strike only after those who are most vulnerable. In such proposals, the respected Government, the distinguished Minister, can always count on the support of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Ms Mateja Udovč will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. The consequences of the outbreak of coronary infection are strongly reflected at all levels of society in Slovenia. The economy is particularly exposed to this. The consequences are particularly significant in the sectors of tourism, catering, non-food trade, processing and others. Because of the difficult conditions, there are liquidity problems for companies, cooperatives, agricultural economies, institutions, institutions and various societies that can, at the end of the day, threaten their existence. On the other hand, this poses a risk of accumulation of systemic risks to financial stability in the country. Yesterday, in the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we had difficulty in agreeing to the decision of the parent working body that between entities entitled to the intervention measure of partial reimbursement, wages were not justified by employees in societies, private institutions and institutions. They also had to stop their activities in accordance with government instructions, for example, sports companies have stopped organising our children's training, cultural and tourism societies have cancelled public events and so on. It was explained to us that for all, regardless of the different nature of their activities, it was not possible to find a single solution in order to integrate them fully into the measure of partial reimbursement of remuneration due to temporary waiting for work, due to the intertwining of market activities and the implementation of programmes financed by public money. We have been promised that individual ministries will therefore approach their problems. Each ministry from its own field, covering certain NGOs. However, that argument cannot be the reason why non-governmental organisations cannot be eligible for an intervention measure to postpone the payment of loans to banks. This is a completely different measure and purpose. The point is that these entities are in the same position as businesses and that their liquidity problems should also be solved, as they will also not be able to repay their liabilities to banks in a timely manner. The bill before us will directly address the liquidity problems of businesses, institutions, societies, cooperatives, individuals, including natural persons and others. The proposal for a law provides for the deferral of the payment of liabilities for loans. These categories allow the deferral of the liabilities under the credit agreement for 12 months or the contractual extension of the repayment period. This measure will therefore, together with other measures planned in other areas, contribute to mitigating the effects of the virus on the economy and public finances. This has facilitated the situation vis-à-vis the banks in which the loans are leased. The aim of the bill is also to maintain jobs and to ensure as much employment as possible, as it will directly mitigate the risks of reducing workers' needs. The proposal also sets out obligations for borrowers and the exercise of control over the law. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we keep abreast of the situation and are aware of the importance of taking effective measures. The whole of all measures taken must facilitate the situation of the economy and thus protect the situation of employees. This proposal for an intervention law is one in a series of measures that will help us to reduce the negative consequences of the situation. With these measures, we must ensure the protection of citizens, the economy and the countries of the Republic of Slovenia. For this reason, we will support this proposal of the intervention law in the Stanka Modern Centre Group, because in our view this intervention law constitutes a measure in the right direction. Towards mitigating the negative effects on society as a whole. Finally, this also means strengthening, preserving jobs for our citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Vice President. Have a nice hello to everyone again! In such situations as we are in, of course, freezing the repayment of bank liabilities is in fact the most meaningful solution. It is certainly the most effective, even the simplest measure in comparison with the various procedures for hiring new loans, for example, to pay old people and so on. Unfortunately, we were not able to introduce this measure in 2009, when corporate indebtedness was really high and could thus very confidently preserve a large part of economic activity and jobs during the crisis. But today the situation is still a little different. Corporate debt is clearly significantly lower than it was 10 years ago, but a company that is practically stopped and does not operate cannot, of course, repay relatively low loans. Because of this epidemic, companies are in serious trouble. They are due, in particular, to reduced demand, to the loss of production, including problems in supply chains, and therefore, without aid, would certainly also begin to forgive and cut wages in order to maintain its profits. It is therefore right that banks, banks in relatively good condition, are involved in the rescue of companies. They have a high capital adequacy, and ultimately this comes from reports or analyses by the Bank of Slovenia, which provides us with this at the moment. This bill, in its original form, nevertheless expressed some blind spot, which we have also seen in the other intervention measures of this government, says he has completely missed out on the most vulnerable group of borrowers, these are natural persons. We must be aware that few households are going to lose income or even lose income because of the situation. The ability to repay, in particular, housing and, last but not least, other loans will also be severely reduced for a number of individuals and households. According to data for 2018, at a time when there was no epidemic and related measures, which will certainly also affect the income available to individuals and households, the Statistical Office is concerned about this area. Once again, in 2018, for 35% of households, housing costs represented a high burden, 53% of the average burden and only 12% of the costs did not represent any burden. Equally worrying are the data on the actual burden of housing costs on households when we look at them from the perspective of how to resolve the housing issue. Among households with high housing costs there were 34% of owners in 2018, 51% of tenants and 28% of housing users. It's clear what the situation is. This crisis, or this epidemic, also clearly shows us that we have been for too long, say those 20 years, neglected the area of housing policy and how we are still missing those 10,000 rental apartments, which are the result of the high rents and the data I mentioned earlier. When the law was tabled, we proposed an immediate amendment that would also include natural persons, including all those who will also face a great deal of trouble with the economic crisis that will come after this epidemic, and in a similar way to those of economic operators. So we are pleased that the government and the government coalition, with their amendments, have also been alerted by some of the parliamentary groups at the College of the National Assembly yesterday to this lack of law, which we have introduced into the law with the amendment and have taken care of these most vulnerable groups as well. I think this is one of the positive aspects of these intervention measures. And, of course, I am also blowing my soul to the coalition to try to behave in every way and to listen a little better to our proposals. For these reasons, we will also support the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will next present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the opening, let me say that the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for an intervention measure to postpone the payment of the obligations of the borrowers. We are pleased with the solutions prepared by the Government, and we are even more pleased that we have actually improved this law on the mother's labour body and have listened to the opposition very well. We are aware that it is necessary to monitor very closely what is happening in the economic sector. And we must not allow an epidemic that is otherwise terrible and has and will have terrible consequences to throw the economy off course. What does marriage bring? The law is an intervention measure. It shall submit a unilateral deferral of the payment of the liabilities under the credit agreement for a period of 12 months following the application of the bill. The Bank and the borrower may also agree on a different deferral, which is more favourable for the latter, i.e. the borrower. The final maturity date of the credit agreement shall be extended for a period of deferral. The creditors covered by the measure are all banks or savings banks established in Slovenia and branches of the bank of the Member State of the European Union established in Slovenia, which can provide banking services in the territory of Slovenia in accordance with the Banking Act. As I have already mentioned, and as has been said in the report of the Chairman of the Committee, we have expanded the range of borrowers and allow me to list them here for the Slovenian public, which closely monitors us, as well. For the first time, an economic company established under the law governing an economic company established in the Republic of Slovenia; secondly, a cooperative, a company, a company, an establishment, a natural person who employs workers in accordance with the law governing the employment relationship or a self-employed person who is established or resident in the Republic of Slovenia; thirdly, an agricultural holding in accordance with the law governing agriculture or the holder of the supplementary activity on the farm in accordance with the law governing agriculture; and fourthly, a natural person who is a national of the Republic of Slovenia and has permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. This is now this set - yes, wide - of borrowers. And we believe that these intervention measures will help economic operators and, of course, also natural persons. We have asked the committee a question that is somehow logically being asked, especially after the bitter experience of the resolution of the bank hole. We were afraid, but we received satisfactory answers from the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, whether now commercial banks, i.e. lenders, would book these deferrals of creditors' obligations in their business books as so-called bad claims. Because if we were to write as bad claims, then we get to the indicators very quickly that will indicate the sub-capitalisation of banks. Then it can only be a step further to the bank hole. We also expect the European Central Bank's response to this intervention law, which we expect, yes, to loosen strict rules on credit relations somehow in these crisis situations during the period of crisis. The parliamentary group will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group's Ambassador. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u224	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have yet to see the last draft of the law in the package of the intervention package, which we must adopt in view of the serious situation in which we have been in for the first time and which requires swift action from us, especially cooperation and unity. The uncertain situation caused by the spread of the virus has a profoundly negative impact on business operations, in some cases even to the extent that their existence is threatened. As a result, many jobs are also at risk. The proposal for a law contains a measure allowing lenders to decide on the payment of liabilities to banks for a period of one year, but only for obligations which have not fallen until the epidemic has been declared. The Act is intended for economic companies, cooperatives, natural persons who employ workers, self-employed persons and operators of agricultural activities. On the basis of the amendments adopted, it is also for institutions, societies, institutions and natural persons, but only for those who are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and reside in it permanently. The proposed measure helps businesses overcome liquidity problems, prevents a severe economic crisis, preserves the stability of the whole country and preserves jobs. In view of the objectives pursued by the measures, the beneficiaries must demonstrate in their application for payment decision that they are paying all the compulsory taxes, contributions and levies to the State, that they do not have outstanding liabilities due at 31 January. 12. 2019 and explain how the effects of Coronavirus affect their entrepreneurship. In addition to this, large companies will have to demonstrate that their insolvency is at risk as a result of the epidemic. Operators who have been banned by the Government or the municipality shall not be obliged to demonstrate their entrepreneurial position. Banks that reject undue delays will be punished with high fines. The same fate awaits beneficiaries who will give the banks false information. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the bill because it is essential that the law is adopted today. However, we point to certain provisions that seem inadequate but correctable to us. The fines for beneficiaries must be set at such a height that the height prevents the offender from being abused. In our view, the fines set from 2 000 500 to 20 000 euros and from 25 000 to 250 000 euros for medium-sized and large-sized enterprises can be found to be low. The question of the appropriateness of the amount of fines is raised given that the decision after the end of the moratorium will not affect the amount of the individual instalment under the credit agreement. The beneficiaries therefore do not have any costs with deferral. They will never pay interest for the moratorium, which must not be of greater benefit to them than the penalty at stake. And yes, this benefit can come from high credits where contracts and late interest are high. The moratorium will also apply to new credit contracts to be concluded during the period of validity of this law. With regard to this arrangement, we are detained for subordination. There is a possibility of a counter-effect, namely that such credits will only be granted by more market-intensive banks and with higher interest rates, making it even harder for businesses to come out of financial problems after the crisis has ended. We agree that commercial banks also help businesses by granting new credits, but we believe that it is necessary to pay attention at the highest interest rate charged by banks in this case, and in this way because of the hardships of the entrepreneur or consumer with their small amount that they would have to pay more than it would have if there had been no crisis. The law amends the regulation of the position of natural persons charged with mortgage and consumer credit. We have noted that the inclusion of natural persons is necessary if it turns out that only the resolution of the economy with a view to preserving jobs and wage compensation measures will not be sufficient. We are thus lacking in the bill's explanation or at least roughly how many potential beneficiaries there are, what amounts of credit currently granted, and what impact the law will have on the liquidity and capital adequacy of banks and, consequently, on the stability of the banking and monetary system. In times of emergency, we must first and foremost strive to be [[microphone dig]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u225	Unfortunately, the clock's ticking, it doesn't say anything. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which is a colleague of Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u226	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The prevention of loss of control over the course of events is the basic purpose of the law on the intervention measure to postpone payment of the obligations of creditors. In an unstable period, both the business position and the naked existence are at risk. The decision to pay credit liabilities shall be fixed for a period of 12 months after the application of this law. In doing so, it is important that the decree will apply to existing and new credit agreements. The deferred payment measure will apply to undertakings, cooperatives, NGOs, such as institutions, companies or institutions, to natural persons who employ workers or self-employed persons who are established or resident in the Republic of Slovenia. However, they will have to make a declaration that they do not have outstanding obligations to the country under contributions and taxes and other duties until 31 December 2019. At today's meeting of the Committee on Finance, we have extended the measure of deferral of liabilities from loans to farmers and to natural persons who are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This will significantly increase the number of beneficiaries. Without any further explanation, the payment decree will be given to those who have carried out an activity for which a government or municipal decision has specified that the provision of the service or the sale of the goods by reason of the virus will be suspended. This is about a large majority of service activities. Other borrowers will have to inform banks when the loan is deferred that, due to the consequences of the epidemic, there have been real business difficulties and the inability to pay credit obligations. Because banks need to know the reasons why their committees are in trouble. Even after the payment has been delayed, borrowers will have to report their business position once a month. The Bank or the Custodian will thus monitor the business and financial position of the borrower. It is also envisaged that the payment order may be terminated if the borrower does not report on the business situation, if it provides false information on the application for a loan decision or if its situation improves so much that it is able to settle its obligations on the other hand. However, such clarifications will not be necessary for natural persons. The implementation of the proposed legal provisions will have an impact on improving the liquidity situation of all types of companies where credit is the most important source of finance for business and development. If the loan is deferred, liquidity will improve, reducing the possibility of insolvency or the possibility of bankruptcy and thus permanent job losses. The crisis is an unstable period during which there is an inevitable greater or smaller change, so that companies will thus buy time for financial and business restructuring. By ensuring liquidity to borrowers, the stability of the financial system will be further ensured, helping to prevent the transfer of liquidity problems to payment non-discipline. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for an intervention measure to postpone payment of the obligations of borrowers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, followed by a colleague of mags. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u228	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In front of us is the law on the intervention measure delaying the payment of the obligations of the borrowers. This is another law in the first package prepared by the government of Janez Janša and the coalition, which addresses the consequences of economic damage and maintains financial stability in the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the consequences of the SARS-COV-2 virus. The fact is that this law goes primarily against companies and natural persons. The main objectives of the proposed law are to contribute to solving the liquidity problems of enterprises that would result from the outbreak of the virus; to facilitate the situation of these companies vis-à-vis the banks whose debtors are and thus to contribute to the preservation of economic and wider financial stability in the country, including through the participation of the financial sector; to prevent serious economic damage; to maintain jobs in these companies; and to facilitate the review of the customer in relation to the conclusion of the business relationship under the provisions of the law governing the prevention of money and the financing of terrorism. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that this is a good intervention law, an intervention law that must be passed. And we will, of course, support such a law in the parliamentary group. However, we expect this first package to be followed in the coming days, weeks, by new laws that will allow for the mitigation of all this economic damage caused by the outbreak of the virus in Slovenia and the pandemic of the virus in the world. And I am sure that, with some common powers, we are going to plague this economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u229	Thank you. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. My friend Igor Pekček.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In the light of the limitation of the spread of the new virus, the Government shall take the necessary and necessary measures which, as a consequence, affect the financial stability of economic groups, as those with limited and interrupted flows of financial resources will be unable to partially or fully meet their financial obligations. In order to limit liquidity problems and ensure the operation of affected companies and other business entities in the future, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also prepared a proposal for an intervention measure law. The bill allows for the freezing of credit obligations to banks, savings banks or branches of foreign banks established in the Republic of Slovenia for a period of 12 months. We certainly do not oppose the proposal in the Group of Members, Mr Sarca. We believe, however, that in a certain part, those people would be worth more serious substantive consideration. It should be noted that all companies or borrowers receiving a 12-month moratorium will be treated as non-payers in accordance with the regulation. In this way, their ratings are changing, so we believe that a two-stage approach has been proposed, first of all a moratorium for three months, which for businesses represents a transitional period of some kind before its ratings change, is justified and justified. We have foreseen a solution in two steps by extending the moratorium to a total of 12 months. If the Bank of Slovenia considers that, without the consent of the European authorities, it is not possible to modify the regulatory treatment of deferrals that constitute debt restructuring, it gives such an approach three more months to adopt uniform regulatory changes at European level. Each rapid change has its consequences, such as we know at a certain point and want to predict, and also those that we cannot at a given time. The measures we are trying to implement must be temporary, such that, in view of the moment we are in, the karsed is the best way to resolve the current crisis. However, they must not have such long-term effects that will cause more damage than the current benefit that we wish to achieve at this time. It seems to us that the delay also applies to consumers. We are absolutely of the opinion that it is necessary to help the economy first, but that consumers will be either pushed into financial difficulties. There will be a lot of forgiveness, waiting for work, lowering wages, which will affect the lower creditworthiness and ability to pay existing loans. It also seems important to us that this and this work will also relieve the economy. Once the facts are more known after the end of this crisis that we are in, and after which the real economic crisis is actually about to begin, they will need to be re-examined and put into new frameworks. They will need to be made new, with new knowledge and new foundations. The bill, in our opinion, does not solve an integrated situation, but has some good and concrete solutions, so we will support it in the Marjan Sarca Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u231	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on articles and amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm going through the list. The application shall be made. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u232	Thank you very much, President. I would also like to answer some of the questions or dilemmas that you have presented here, and I think they require an answer in terms of, for the first time, the assessment of stability and, secondly, what has been said, the possibility of reducing ratings and how the European Central Bank should react in this regard. I think this is important, and it is also part of the explanation of this law. The first thing I'd like to say is that the Slovenian financial system is stable. That the balance sheet sum of the Slovenian banking system is between 39 billion and 40 billion. She was quartering about $4 billion. Company deposits of 7 billion, population deposits of 20 billion and some liquidity surplus of EUR 5 billion. This situation, I will not now compare it with the situation in 2009, but it is much better. From this perspective, the financial system is also stable due to these measures. The other thing I would like to say is the regulator's reaction, so to speak, to the European Central Bank. I wrote today or yesterday to the Governor of the European Central Bank, Mrs Christine Legarde, concerning the fact that these measures are necessary for the current epidemic to be overcome, and also to familiarise it with all the legislation and to take account of all the specificities that the epidemic brings into the European economy. As you know, it is today or I inform you that, tonight, the European Central Bank has taken a special measure for banks where it has increased the possible volume of the loan, we are talking of course about banks, business banks will be able to increase loans with the European Central Bank. It has reduced the limit for calculating the excess of lending to the real economy. It reduced the interest rate, basically loosening the criteria for securing the claims of the Eurosystem. At the same time, it has also opened up the purchase of securities, or the European Central Bank will start buying securities again, meaning in other words that liquidity will increase on the European market. In short, the financial market in Slovenia and Europe is stable. And such a measure will not, to any extent, endanger or affect such stability. Today, however, the European Central Bank has also put on the market a programme for emergency purchases in relation to these measures, amounting to €750 billion for Europe, and today the European Central Bank has actually published or adopted this programme. Given that the capital key is important in the sharing of this money, about €3 billion will come to Slovenia, meaning in other words that additional liquidity money will come. From this point of view, it is even less risky for these measures to have any impact on the stability of the financial system, and this stability is in fact ensured. As a result, I think there is very little chance that the regulator would turn this type of credit reprogramming into bad loans. Last but not least, banks already have the opportunity to restructure existing loans with or without law or without law, in fact, they can do so. That's why I don't think it's going to happen here to reduce ratings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. That's it. The amendments will be decided in 30 minutes in the framework of the vote. With this, I interrupt this point and the 32nd extraordinary session, which we will continue on 23.55. Members and members of the Mandate-Election Commission shall be informed that in 5 minutes' time, a meeting of the Commission will begin in the large lounge to prepare a proposal for a decision to act as a Member instead of a Member acting as Secretary of State. That's it. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 23.23 p.m. and resumed at 23.54 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u234	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. I inform you that we will vote in the next order. The remaining sub-points 4 shall then be 1, 2, 3, 3.A, 3B item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda, this is Mandating- voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the performance of the post of Member instead of a Member acting as Secretary of State. The decision of the State Election Commission was addressed as the working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which reported in writing to the National Assembly. The report is published on the e-club. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. We are voting on the motion for a decision in the report of the Mandate-Volution Commission, which temporarily acts as Ambassador Jura Ferrjan. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite my fellow Member to join us and to occupy his seat, and I wish him to do his work successfully in the parliamentary benches. / applause/ We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to appoint Ursula Zora Tavčar to the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of four years as a member and her term of office starts at 23. 3. 2020. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to appoint Matey Udovč as a member to the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of four years, starting with a term of 20 years. 4. 2020. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 12. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission of Inquiry on the determination of alleged money laundering in NKBM, d.d., the alleged illegal financing of the SDS political party and the alleged illegal financing of the SDS electoral campaign for early election of Members to the 2018 National Assembly. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 1 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Intervention Action for Partial Reimbursement of Wages in the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue to decide on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 March 2020. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD to Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to the title of Chapters 11a and 11b shall become irrelevant. Comrade Kordish, an explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, chairman. This law is supposed to save workers' wages in the event of the production and sale of the crownvirus crisis, but in fact, the law saves previous profits from capital owners, the same capital owners who have made billions of profits in recent years and, at the same time, do not take care of employees at the same time at the time of the epidemic. The priority to save capital, not workers, was also reflected in the fact that their contributions to self-employed people will not be written off. Although the self-employed group of workers who is most vulnerable, who is completely out of orders overnight, who is out of work, is granted only the interest-free loan, i.e. the delay in paying their contributions, not the write-off, as would be right. In Levica we have therefore tabled an amendment to this law, which, for the next three months, removes all contributions to self-employed workers. The second amendment, which we have tabled to this law, saves the situation of those workers who are unable to work who are stuck at home because they have closed the school, the kindergartens have closed up and have to take care of their child's protection themselves, and those workers who are also stuck at home because of the interruption of public transport. These people are only sentenced to 50% compensation. With our amendment, we propose to raise this compensation to 80%, not to have two categories of workers who will stay at home, one who will receive 50% of the compensation, the other who will receive 80% of the compensation. Everyone deserves 80% of their wages because they were robbed during the coronavirus crisis. The third set of amendments proposed to this Act, however, extends subsidies which, according to the applicant, are intended to be received only by economic companies, including organisations, institutions, societies and so on, which do not deal with profitable activities that do not carry out economic activities. This is where humanitarian organisations belong, for example. A group of workers in this area comprises 9,000 300 people, and they too deserve support, and they also deserve to be guaranteed by the state for their salaries when the works are robbed. This is not something that has grown on our grassroots in Levica, but a broad coalition of civil society organisations is behind this initiative. If our amendments are accepted, we will press the key for the entire law, otherwise the law as proposed will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members present, 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD groups to Article 2(1). What explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 77 Members present, with 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD groups to Article 2(2). Explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? In my own name. My colleague Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u237	Thank you. In fact, I didn't mean to come to the phone because Micah told me everything, but I can't help but watch this vote so I can't stop by, because as much a non-social government as this one, I can't imagine. Just today, as this government raised its wages to the embellished heights, it leaves the self - employed at the social bottom. For a quarter of the self-employed have lived below the poverty threshold by now, because they have not recovered – but whatever your colleague is nodding – from the last economic crisis she has plagued. And never do these people - of course right, nod - do not set up normally. And these people, you know, work, pay contributions, pay taxes. And today, 119 thousand self-employed people are being abandoned. I don't think that's acceptable. According to the latest data from December 2019, this group represents 11% of working citizens [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u238	The explanation of vote is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u239	You will leave them completely. [[…]] Of course I'll support our amendment. I have 43 seconds to tell you why. Because we decided in Levica that it was necessary to help everyone and not just to come to the government. And here you're running a social genocide, because thousands of people are going to be out of insurance, but they should be freed for three months. We could give them a minimum wage and a sick woman from day one, because when they get sick, no one will work for them. But it's about espaes, self-employed people, and nicknames. In particular, there are many in culture, but there are many in other spheres. Yeah. I will vote for our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u240	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 43. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 2(2). What explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 2. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment to Article 2 under number 3 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD groups to Article 5. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 8 of the LMŠ Group. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 44. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the members of the Left, the LMŠ and the SD to Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendments of the same proposer to Chapter 2 to Article 11a and Article 11b have become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 11a under Article 2. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 11b under Article 2. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 6. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 15.a. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Nobody.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. I note that the Second reading assembly adopted amendments to Articles 2, 11a, 11b and 15b. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am also not informed that the proposal would be inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanations to the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, first of all, colleague Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u241	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We are constructive in the List of Marjan Šarc, and we will support the proposal of a law that brings a number of positive issues for the economy and thus for employees. There is no way we can understand that, for the first time, you have forgotten about all institutions, secondly, all societies, thirdly, humanitarian institutions, fourthly, youth organisations and, fifthly, more than 120,000 employees. And since we're not, we, along with the opposition, the Left and the SD, have also tabled amendments that you could overrun. At the same time, your ministers and secretaries of state have raised their salaries and taken care of their own pockets. You're kidding!?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u242	Thank you. Mr Kordish has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u243	Thank you for your word, chairman. This law saves businesses that will be hit by the epidemic in a way that saves their owners, i.e. capital holders. The same people who have recorded billions of profits in recent years. Priorities should be reversed and workers should be given priority. That is why we have also tabled amendments in Levica to this Act to write off contributions to self-employed workers, workers, secondly in order to provide compensation and subsidies to non-economic companies, humanitarian workers, institutions, companies, also this group of workers is important and, thirdly, that all workers who have been robbed in the crisis are entitled to 80 % of the compensation for the loss of their salaries not only to 50 % of the compensation paid to certain groups of workers who must remain at home due to the lack of public transport which has been shut down, because they are closed down and have to take care of their children and so on. The coalition voting machine overrun all our amendments. How do ladies and gentlemen in the coalition face do this after their client bosses raised their salaries a few hours ago to the highest possible level? They have raised their salaries, ladies and gentlemen, ministers and secretaries by 400 euros. This is more than the contribution of one self - employed person, contributions that you do not want to burden today. After you've given the capital of a million-dollar subsidy, after your bosses have taken 400 Euros of higher wages today, you don't want to take care of the most vulnerable group of workers in this country, they're self-employed, they're workers who are reprimands. Shame on you. We will not support this law in the Left, nor will we support your hypocrisy under the cover of the rescue of the Coronavirus. All you're saving, all you're interested in is power, your client power in the country and the power of your capitalist friends in the company. But this country should put workers first in the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. If I didn't, I'd call in applications to explain my voice on my own behalf. My friend Franz Runk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u245	Thank you for your word, chairman. The economic system should be seen as a whole. A law that overlooks one week of Slovenia's economy, a law that overlooks almost 10,000 people who form the immune system of society, which we still need in these times, cannot be supported. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague named Natasha Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u247	Respected and respected! I know we're in collective distress, but the pressure isn't just because of the coronavirus. The pressure is going to be any minute now, or it's already too social for some people. And a lot of people will be put to death by this crisis. And as we do here today, no matter what we have very clearly pointed out on the committee, what it means to be 120 000 fellow citizens and fellow citizens who are in a penal position who are self-employed, what it means to pay social and health contributions per month, if they do not have a job - it means social death for them. And this delay for three years won't help them. They should be helped as we suggested in Levica. Not only by cancelling these social contributions, but also by helping them to subsidise their incomes, those who will not even achieve minimum income. And what are we doing with this intervention law? We do help too many workers and workers in production, which is also right, but in what way. So to companies, we give grants to companies, set up, and here we only give interest-free loans for a while, for those who are most vulnerable. Up to now, 40 thousand have lived on the threshold or below the threshold of poverty, and that is sad. These are people who provide many services without whom I could not imagine everyday life. All this work they're doing in this society, but we missed it today. Just as we have overlooked NGOs who are also doing that invisible work, so that our society can function as well as it can. I can't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u249	Thank you for your word. Minister of Finance of Shircelj said that other packages of law would be to counter the damage caused by the crown. Apparently, you in the government suffered the greatest damage due to the coronavirus, so you had to give yourself a reward or your bosses had to raise their salaries by 400 euros. The workers contributed to the fact that you were able to raise your wages today. And EUR 400 is the average contribution paid by the self-employed or espa, who pays his contributions and pays taxes, and this comes to the circus 42.4 million per month, which is 510 million per year. Half a billion per year of these 11% of self-employed people contribute to the treasury, to the state treasury, from which all of us are financed. And you have the face of these people today to let go and not help them from the crisis, because people would work, but they're not allowed. And how convenient for us to be hit by this accident that people can't get on the road. Believe me, it would be full of them. And you wouldn't be sitting here as long as you're gonna be sitting because of the emergency, unfortunately. Thank you for your attention. I really cannot support this law and it is a disgrace to democracy and a disgrace to this Parliament. And I hope everyone hears and knows who you've been elected.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u250	Thank you. I can see that I still remember something from each of you. I suggest we re-examine the list and sign in. Applications are under way. My colleague Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I know it's late. I know we're all lost. I know the situation is very critical. I will support this law, realizing that it is absolutely not ideal and that in one part it is absolutely not righteous. Because I am aware of the situation, I am giving my hand to the Government to give you another week of time to save all these singers all these self-employed, culturers, institutions and so on. Otherwise, believe me, in the opposition, we will know these two, three articles and write the law next week or by the end of the week if the government does not organise itself. I think it is necessary to act quickly and start to help, so today I will support this law, otherwise the government will not react, I now predict that the Social Democrats will probably by means of the opposition introduce a law that will save this part of the economy called self-employed, entrepreneurs, culturers and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u252	Thank you. My colleague Matjaž German has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u253	Thank you very much, President. The matter is not as complex as it appears at first sight or simply as it is. As a country and as a society, we face two outstanding challenges. One is in the area of health, where everyone, all Slovenes and Slovenians, are treated equally, regardless of whether it is Primorec, or Štajerec, or Ljubljana, when he comes when he needs help, he gets it. On the other hand, we are saving the economy, and here we have already made great differences between each other in the first step, so some have the privilege of offering them assistance today, while others will be given this privilege, I hope that, as Matjaž Han has said, this opportunity will still be given. As an incentive to this government, I hope that you will truly find solutions in the coming weeks for those hundreds of thousands of independent entrepreneurs and other organisations, who, like everyone else, when we need medical care, also deserve economic assistance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u254	Thank you. Anyone else? We're voting on the law. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on intervention measures on the market for agricultural crops, foodstuffs, animals and forest forest varieties in the framework of the urgent procedure. We will continue to decide on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2020. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 2. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 7 shall become irrelevant. What explanation in her own, colleague Violeta Tomić? If not, on behalf of the House of Representatives. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u255	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We in Levica have decided to support a complex law and all measures that will go towards solving the crisis with the coronavirus, particularly the food crisis. We know that access to food will become increasingly difficult over time, and our self-sustainment is already so bad, especially with fruit and vegetables, and therefore we support all measures that will make it easier for farmers to grow. However, with the limitation of agricultural crops, agricultural crop prices and foodstuffs, we have proposed further restrictions on seed prices. For if the seeds go to heaven and are too expensive, then no gardeners or farmers will be able to plant or meet these requirements at prices. We also know that during this time, a week ago we sold Semenarna Ljubljana, with a very long tradition, and I think that access to quality seed is of great importance to every farmer and farmer. That's what the state has to take care of. I therefore ask you to support this constructive contribution. I hope that together, however, we will achieve a reduction in people's distress and, above all, the fear of food shortages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Anyone else? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 3.a. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 6. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 7. An explanation of the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 2. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We ended up voting on the amendments and second reading of the bill. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3a, 6 and 7. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third reading law. I am also not informed that the proposal would be inconsistent, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on temporary measures in relation to judicial, administrative and other public legal matters for the control of the spread of communicable diseases SARS-COV-2 (COVID-19) in the context of an urgent procedure. We continue to decide on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 March 2020. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 4. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 4 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third reading law. I was also not informed that the proposal was inconsistent. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u257	Thank you for your word. We will abstain from voting on this law in the LMŠ Group. It grieves us that because of the two contentious articles, we cannot give support to a law that provides for the majority of the measures that are good. We cannot agree with the granting of the Bianca mandate given by the law to the directors of the prison institutions, so that without pre-set rules of the game they can decide on their own whether or not to end the prison sentence. Such a measure is excessive and irresponsible. And while you will arbitrarily release prisoners from prisons, we must be all other citizens in a voluntary prison with limited movement. Our health workers are also working, including Civil Protection, police officers, shopkeepers, postmen, taxi drivers, factory workers. And everyone just so that this country can function to ensure the health of citizens. In the meantime, you adopt a law that will, without any prior judgment, release prisoners from prison, and thus, quietly in the government, raise wages. It's just not fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u258	Thank you, colleague Hefferle. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members present, 54 votes against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We continue with the adjourned 3A item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Law on Public Finance Intervention Measures in the framework of the urgent procedure. We will continue to decide on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2020. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group Ambassador to Article 1a. What explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 74 Members present, with 22 votes against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. That concludes this point. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing delegation to Article 10. My fellow moon, on behalf of the messenger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u259	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. This amendment, which deletes the most controversial part of this law, which the minister himself has called it, is a condition for us to support this law. Indeed, this law in Articles 10 and 11 gives full authority to decide on budgetary matters to the Government. Which means the budget is not valid, which means that the Government has full powers to redistribute the budget lines, where it takes them, to whom it gives them and so on. According to the original version, it was not even determined that the National Assembly would have some control over this, but the government would have done everything on its own, as it seemed. The budget is not just a financial document, it is not just a table with numbers, the budget is a policy poured into numbers. And politics usually begins and ends in the budget. The budget is a place where all the promises of higher pensions have been buried for the past 20 years, but there was no money for them. The budget is a place where promises about housing have been buried for the past 10, 15 years. Finally, the budget is also a good part of the response to why no government has yet managed to reduce waiting lines in health care. Our constitutional arrangement says that the National Assembly is the one that adopts the framework that guides the government, the government is the one that implements the policies. The National Assembly decides, the government executes. After the new government will decide and implement. The National Assembly without budget and without budgetary powers is humiliated to some consultative body, where the Minister will now, once we have adopted the amendment proposed by the LMŠ, report once a month on what he is doing with the budget and public finances. We understand they're a state of emergency. We understand that all forces must be resisted to address this crisis. But we don't understand such centralization of power. No government in the last 30 years, no matter how severe the situation in the country has ever been, has ever been worse than today, in 2009, remember, the economy has fallen freely, minus 9% of GDP, and no one has thought about taking that much power. So, what we are concerned about is the great potential for abuse of the scenes of this crisis, the great possibility of exhaustion of budgetary users who do not take advantage of this or these political options. The National Assembly and Members will not have a word on this. If we do not adopt our amendment, which deletes this article, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. We're voting on the Left Amendment. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 50. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 50.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're moving on to Article 11. We have three amendments here. First, we decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 11 under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendments of the LMŠ Group of Members and SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to the same Article 11 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 50. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to the same Article 11 under Article 2. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to the same Article 11 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 46. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 11(3). We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 19. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 11 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading, and I am also not informed that the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. On behalf of the parliamentary groups? LMSH first. My friend Pajovitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u261	Thank you. Each law must incorporate appropriate mechanisms of balance between the Government and the National Assembly, and the Government must inform and report to the enacting parliament. In this direction, our proposals have also been supplemented, which the coalition on the Committee has taken into account only in the work on reporting to the Commissions on Public Finance Supervision, and this has now been amended in the latest version to such an extent that it no longer meets its original purpose. Even though we welcome some of the measures provided for in the law, the rest of us are so troubled and are interfering with constitutional law and the duty of all of us sitting in here, we cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u262	Thank you very much. A friend of the moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u263	Thank you for saying that again. We will and will support those measures that are proportionate, which make sense and which contribute to the resolution of the situation. We didn't even oppose today's first law, even though you were the same people who, ever since I remembered you, have been talking about how you support entrepreneurship, missed 120,000 self-employed people and didn't give them any help. I'd say a friend meets him in a crisis. I received today's e-mail from the company of entrepreneurs, self-employed people who wrote that under the given conditions, as far as you've given them in the first law that we've discussed today, 30% of them think after the polls they've done, they'd close espaes and go after charity to the employment office. Here we are. But we were so constructive in Levica that we did not oppose this law. Whatever. But we will be absolutely alert to those things that go too far. And today you've gone too far. It's too far for your army to go to the streets. Your announcement or announcement by the Prime Minister has gone too far to call for volunteers in the army. I think we know who he's talking about. It has gone too far for the National Assembly to take away the possibility of deciding on the budget. This is potentially even unconstitutional. Read Article 16 of the Constitution. The government may begin to interfere with rights once an emergency situation has been declared, not earlier. And as far as I know, there are no emergencies today, but the government has taken this right. And, as I pointed out earlier, there have been times when, in a public financial sense, we understand each other correctly, the situation in the country may be more acute than it is today. And for such a measure, such a drastic measure, there is absolutely no need. If anything, the National Assembly has shown two things today. First, to be able to hold discussions on committees and hold discussions at meetings on a virtually one day of the night when the intervention laws have been drawn up. One day of intervention laws. And secondly, he showed that the opinion, the political opinion in this house, is not lame. All the laws were given certain additions, which were also accepted by the coalition, through consideration in the National Assembly, and I hope they are significantly better for this. Therefore, excuse me, not only is it dangerous, but you also weaken the quality of your decisions by taking all powers exclusively for yourself. We will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u264	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Duck, in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. As a conservative leftist, of course, I am a Habermas constitutional patriot. In all constitutional parliamentary democracies that are not farce, parliaments are the guardians of budgets. We are not in a state of emergency, even if we were in another state of emergency, we are now being bombed that we are in the basement, up and down, we should vote on this and have a two-thirds majority under Article 148 of the Constitution. At the same time, Article 110 of the Constitution makes it very clear what is the relationship between any government and the national assembly. You're actually trying to beat it. If anyone should be against this proposal and against this proposal should be any specific finance minister, because it is too much of a responsibility in the derogation of the National Assembly, that one person should decide on more than 10 billion and, as a member of the SMC said, slightly in his own way. That is why I am forced to vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u266	Thank you. My friend Kordish, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u267	Thank you for your word, chairman. However, the same people who lost €10 million of masks yesterday do not know consistently in the camera whether they have already paid them or have not paid them, by means of this law, and with this provision they want us to give them unconditional powers to exercise €10 billion of public money. One day after they lost 10 million euros in masks, for which, I repeat, they can't even tell whether they've paid or not. Are you kidding? But the most worrying part of this happens is that government incompetence is not what we should be worried about in the first place, but is the violation of basic democracy that happens under the pretext of the epidemic. The elected body, which is the National Assembly, and its fundamental powers, which is the handling of the financial framework in that country, is transferring unlimited and unconditionally to the Government, the same government, which at the same time thinks very loudly and explains that it will send an army to the street. Colleagues and colleagues, for this direction of political development, there is a very specific expression. Such political development is called a coup. I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u268	Thank you. I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u269	Thank you for your word, Chairman! Respected and respected! Yes, we are in a crisis situation. But we are not in an emergency. You would need or will need two-thirds of the votes of Members and Members of this Assembly in order to face an emergency. And you don't have those votes yet. The law, as you propose, could function in the way you suggest, only in emergency situations. What we are witnessing is a pure suspension of the democratic procedure in Parliament. Let's stop fooling around. Citizens and citizens, I hope you're watching or watching this video, we're just witnessing some kind of coup. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-19-SDZ8-Izredna-32.ana.u270	Thank you. Anyone else? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 10. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 3b item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for an Intervention Act to postpone payment of the creditors' obligations under the urgent procedure. We will continue to decide on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2020. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 2. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 9. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 2 and 9 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates or do they intend to table amendments to these articles? I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am also not informed that the proposal would be inconsistent, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. What explanation for the voice? I guess not. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The meeting was closed on 20 March 2020 at 00.51.
