ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Maša Kociper, Franz Kramar and Samo Bevk. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, participation at a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly has been announced by Mr Krivec and Mr Horvath. I welcome everyone here. Before we go to the vote, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will carry out it in accordance with the following order: 10, 16, 7, 13, 14, 15, 9, 11, 12, 17, 8 and 1 item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Members participating in the meeting shall, in particular, be requested to check their connection. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data in the field of the handling of criminal offences under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Work Programme and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2021. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, namely: The National Assembly gives its consent to the work programme and the Agency's financial plan for 2021 of 28. 9. 2020. We're voting. There are 86 Members present and 77 votes against one. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Patient Rights in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 8. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act is suitable for further consideration. Colleague Natasa Sukić on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Your Honor! As you know, for over a decade now, the British Ascent Resources Corporation has been working on it, and in every way, with the mob's grip on it, the pressure on former Minister Lebn is not foreign, is trying to crack in Petišovci. This is an extremely dirty technology that has proved to be destructive to human health and the environment. However, the British seek to forge profits at the expense of the health of our people, at the expense of destabilizing our environment. 90% of the profits will go into their greedy pockets if there's a cracking. It is absurd to be called upon by the municipality of Lendava to stop fracking now. We also call you who care, but you only hear the Ascent Resources Corporation, even its arguments you use because you fear its threats. More and more European countries are deciding whether to ban or freeze fracking, but I wouldn't. Britain, for example, has adopted a complete moratorium on fracking last year. Why? Because they protect their own people because they protect their own environment. Ascent Resources can't go home, they can't do the fracking because the British government forbids it. The ruling coalition is given this second option today, fracking must be prohibited by law, and this is now in order to protect people in Petišovci and in the immediate vicinity, in order to protect the environment and unspoiled nature, in particular the biosphere area of Mure, which Unesco has recognised as a refugee as a world heritage, and to finally begin by abandoning the use of fossil fuels, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and transferring to a harmless society, to which the Paris climate agreement ultimately binds us, to which we are bound by Europe's green orientations. The excuses for respecting a concession agreement from a distant year 2002, if this indicates our credibility, are empty. What does international commitment mean? What does it mean that the State has signed the Paris International Climate Agreement? This is a commitment to be kept. That is why I call on you, once again, to vote for the ban on fracking in Petišovci. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the rest of you are present. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will also support the law, where there is also a co-signatory. The reasons are simple. Fracking is a mildly controversial, widely proven, and also a harmful method of exploiting natural resources. Secondly, it is interesting that in Slovenia it is trying to crack a company that comes from a country where it has already been banned in some way from listening to a company that comes from a country where it is banned. The moratorium is essentially a ban on doing so, so they want to do so in Slovenia. Thirdly, imagine, respected and respected, I cannot say that even in Prekmurje we have not done any things in the past that have harmed the environment. We all learn, but now our direction is quite clear: tourism, as much as possible sonar agriculture, conservation of the Natura 2000 biosphere. Thus, in this room simply harmful industries do not belong. That's why we'll support it. We also talked about whether to wait for some kind of system law. However, since we have experience with Slovenian policy that when something is not to be done, my experience, honourable Members and Members, is such when something is not wanted to be done, then it is said, yes, because today we will not accept because the system law is coming tomorrow. And he's often gone. However, if this offer is well-intentioned, the system law can sum up the solution that we are adopting today. If in your heart you feel that at the 101st anniversary of Prekmurke and Prekmurce, we were not alive at the time, we joined our native people when Prekmurje became part of the national territory, please give us this gift at the 101st anniversary. Protect us in this way, so that we can clearly say here today that we do not allow it. By the way, in 2011, Slovenia, as the first in Europe, was able to apply the precautionary principle to certain poisons used in agriculture. We were the first to protect the bee because of the precautionary principle. What did they all say?Oh, my God! Later, we were followed by France, Germany and other countries. Now we're in a better situation. These countries have already protected their territory from fracking. So we're not alone anymore. That is why we will protect our Prekmurjes today by this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Rudy Medved, on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u6	Thank you, President. There is no intermediate solution in relation to such an important issue as a hydraulic break in the production of natural gas, which is extremely controversial from an environmental point of view. You're here for it or you're against it. We also asked the government in the debate whether it was in favour or against, but there was some exchange in terms of, if, we will systematically resolve, this is a partial solution. Whether they're in or against this government, we don't know that today. In the government of Marjana Šarc, we had a clear position, we opposed. in the letter of Marjan Šarc, we also oppose today. Above all, then and today, we are disturbed by this arrogant, elevated attitude of this foreign investor, who will earn millions of dollars of concessions a year for a few thousand dollars, how he actually went and blackmailed himself into obtaining this environmental permit. You may recall what happened during the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Juret Lebna. Even police protection had to be offered in some way, so this foreign partner based in some tax haven went after him and the Environment Agency. There is no need to look far beyond the world at how countries opt for a moratorium or a total ban on this mode of natural gas production, which has many consequences for the environment and, above all, the degradation of the environment, which has been due to mining in Zasavje for decades, but we do not get out of this. In the List of Marjan Šarc, because we have a clear position on this issue, we will also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Victory, Jelinčič, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I must say that this is one of the few proposals made by the Left, which is excellent. The fact is that the Slovenian National Party supports all good proposals that are in favour of the country of Slovenia. And this law is in favour of the state of Slovenia. It's about protecting our natural wealth, which the English want to exploit, because in England they failed. A number of cities in England have resisted to do so because earthquakes have occurred, land has been occupied, and methane burning through water pipes. We've seen this and it's happening. It's scary that someone from England who won't let him go to our Slovenia. And I'm also wondering where these protestors are from a green NGO that fucks with them for what's going on in Prekmurje. Why aren't they there? Here in Ljubljana, they shit up and down and throw the dice, and I don't know what else. Let them go there and tell the English not to show up there our NGOs who are so worried about the environment. I think the law is good and this cracking has to be banned. They're banning it all over the world except for us when they want to come to the little door. The English here are counting on a big profit. They don't care about the Devastation of our Prekmurje. Why don't they hope to do something like that in Hungary? After all, it is a province that is not different from ours on the Slovenian side. But don't God let one come in there blackmailing everyone. So if we are to save this part of our country, then we must adopt this law. But if we don't care, then we'll submit to English devouring demands. I am not in favour of this, we are not in favour of this in the Slovenian National Party, so we will gladly support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Andrej Reich, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u10	In the SAB Group, we will support the amendment or addition of the Mining Act, as we have also recognized fracking as a harmful technology for hydrocarbon production. And this harmfulness is always recognised by a large part of Europe. That technology is harmful is shown in various environmental consequences abroad: increasing seismic activity, earthquakes, possession, water pollution. We are the first party in the SAB, which is very important to us that all citizens have the right to clean drinking water. And on our initiative, it is enshrined in the Constitution. As far as the administrative procedures under way are concerned, we propose that the ARSO also find in the final decision what it says out loud is unacceptable to crack into the environment. In fact, when this concessionaire does not want to carry out an environmental impact assessment and obtain environmental consent, we understand that the procedure does not wish to continue. So in this light, too, we call on ARSO to identify what is actually silently saying that an attack into the environment by fracking is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvat, on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Fracking needs to be stopped. This is the position of New Slovenia. We run the ministry, so Novi Slovenija is a trusted ministry, which is, I can say, the guardian of the Mining Act. And what we promise, the word applies to us, we will realize it. If anyone, then Christian Democrats have high on the scale of our values written down the protection of things, the protection of nature, the protection of the environment. I am extremely grateful to all of you, dear colleagues, who were in yesterday's debate, I believe, I believe, sincerely, sincerely expressed your concern for Prekmurje. Finally, after 30 years. I am also very pleased that you remembered the 101st anniversary of the merger of the Premurese Slovenians with the native nation, which is the exclusive merit of the priests who took care of 900 years of preserved Slovenia, that today I can speak Slovenian on the left bank of Mure. Before I go to the English, I stay in Slovenia. Petrol is a state-owned company, including state-owned companies. This company was founded by Petrol, Geoenergo, d.o.o., which is the holder of concession rights for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, crude oil, natural gas and gas condensate in the area of Murska depression, Petišovci, Dolina, etc. And this Geoenergo, now with the English, has a contract with Ascent Slovenia Limited, a long-term contract for joint operations in the development of the gas and oil fields of Dolina and Petišovci. Ladies and gentlemen, New Slovenia and not I are not the shareholders of Petrol. No, I assure you. I assure you. Thus, in addition to sincere concern for Prekmurje, there was something here or quite a few depressed debates. I'm concluding. Fracking needs to be stopped. We will pursue this and we will do it in this government. Not like that. We will therefore vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration and we will write it in accordance with the European legal order for which we are all striving, which we have written down at last – whether you can calm these intolerances a little bit [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u13	Please, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u14	which, last but not least, was adopted almost exactly eight years ago by the European Parliament. [[…]] Just read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Then Franz Duck has his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. I'm not impatient, I applauded the silhouism of an experienced fellow Member. With everything that's been said, I thought someone was going to talk, but it's not, now I don't know, Buddy Breznik I don't see here. So the industrial revolution, is it there? I'm sorry. It is also a geothermal pool, a pool of geothermal energy. If Janša already has good relations with Orban, Slovenia, Hungary and Croatia should sign a tripartite commitment to ban mining practices. On the one hand, we're going to be green, Hungary has green color even on the flag, on the other hand, we're going to approve, on the third hand, we're going to be explaining Industrial Revolution 27.3, and we're going to be talking about how geothermal energy should be used. If we want to go green tourism, if we're aware of geothermal potential, mag. Grims is probably the biggest expert on this from here 90 present, then we need to support it, not look for hair in – not to say where, and to carry out the silologies in question, as he spoke before me. That's why I'm going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, since it's quite a few hands up, I'm going to set up a sign-up sheet. Sign up for anyone who wants to explain their voice. The first word is Jerco Korca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u18	I will absolutely support this today. This is not a matter of systemicity; this is a question of the system of values of our society. It is not a question of what kind of concession contract is signed, nor of whether we will receive any action, because even if there is a lawsuit, or if we lose it, if we are not prepared to risk some of our money for future generations to preserve our nature, then it is sad. I don't have these problems, and I didn't understand any of the arguments put forward by the coalition as solid as they could convince me otherwise. Moreover, all the arguments we've heard have been very much torn. I think that today this Parliament could adopt a ban on fracking, and this would not affect a single process of how the government will redefine the Mining Act. All this perversion that we are witnessing to him, I don't know why it should be opposed just because the opposition has proposed it. If we all agree that fracking has to be banned, then today we'll just ban it. The actions are reflected in the three buttons we have ahead of us and the responsibility towards this beautiful green country and the responsibility for future generations and the respect for the precautionary principle. If we do not know, even if experts are opposed to whether or not the consequences are harmful, we have a responsibility to apply the precautionary principle by pressing the plus button today. I'll definitely back it up today.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is Love Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Look, if things were, I'd say, from a professional point of view, this bill that's being submitted is very good. We are all so aware of our environment, our nature and our beautiful homeland. But for us who know the background of this activity, that is to say, the exploitation of mineral raw materials in Prekmurje, but the story is a little different. From a professional point of view, the contractor thought very well about the extraction of raw materials by cracking or without or to any variant. Its conclusion is that by no means acquisition is profitable. This is his firm professional decision not to be profitable. And this performer has been working for some time, through some copies, and in what way he would withdraw. He was looking for options, variants, such and different and also mediators, how he would actually do it. The adoption of the law, which prohibits one type of technology, is balm in honey for him, for the prohibition of execution, the use of one of the technologies is the ideal basis for him to file an action immediately tomorrow or after tomorrow or in a few days. And he's going to press charges. This lawsuit will not be worth a few thousand euros, this lawsuit will take place in millions. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u22	Thank you very much. All the progressive, thinking forces in the world are united in saying that it is crucial for us, as a society and as a global ecosystem, to survive in the light of climate change and the collapse of the planet to decarbonise society. It is most important here to understand the value or risk of the acquisition and use of fossil fuels. Fracking is exactly what it is, getting fossil fuels. Natural gas is a fossil fuel and the acquisition of fossil fuels always leads to desolation. Ask me or any other member of the government who has lived in a desolate environment for many years because of coal mining. And this devastation isn't just environmental. This devastation is spatial. Local communities in Zasavje need to think four times, five times before they can build a new apartment block or a new sports facility, whatever, a new game. As a result, this devastation is social, as this local community cannot develop in concrete terms. Zasavje became a sleeping village for people working in Celje and Ljubljana. The acquisition of fossil fuels in its entirety leads to devastation. I'm not Prekmurec, but I don't want Prekmurje to face the same fate that came over Zasavje. Prekmurje is nice, it has a tourist, agricultural potential. I don't know why we should throw it out the window just to make sure some English capital does. I don't even buy an argument waiting for a system law. Look at the law on long-term care and fighting for the decent lives of the elderly, and you'll see where we are. I will support such a law by banning fracking.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Today, we will see clearly what words are and what actions are. In words, you can look for a million excuses why a foreign corporation that collects 90% of its profits and is registered in a tax haven and threatens the former minister of the environment and blackmails him by mafia methods, why would they even allow them to do so, or where the cracking is, because it has clear harmful effects on the environment, air, water and life of the Prekmurje residents. Why we have a country, I'm asking you. Do we have it because of people, or do we have it because of the private interests of foreign capital? Who owns Slovenia? The Constitution states that in Slovenia it has authority over the people. And this people, these Prekmurians have asked you to help them because they don't want to live in a degraded environment where methane will flow out of their tentacles. The Constitution also states that every citizen and every citizen has the right to clean drinking water, the right to a healthy living environment. We will here, because of the interests of some foreign corporations, destroy these interests of our people and our rights. If the power of the people is in Slovenia, then we must not allow this so-called invisible time of capital to hold our country and the decisions of our politicians. And don't say that you will coordinate with the European acquis, because if this were not harmonised, there would be no more than 16 European countries fracking in their territory. However, we have signed the Paris Climate Agreement on the disengagement of society and I do not think that the acquisition of fossil fuels is in any way compatible with this Agreement. So here today we will see whether we represent the public interest of our citizens or private interests. Of course I'm in favour of a no-fracking.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm gonna take it one step at a time. This is about Prekmurje first. This law prohibits fracking to both Petrol and Ascent. It is about preserving nature in Prekmurje so that the land will not sit, that the inhabitants of Prekmurje will not drink water contaminated with methane. Secondly, it is the end of democratic rights or fundamental sovereignty. I don't know what kind of country we are if we can't tell some company that it won't mess with us. I don't know what kind of country we are if we don't hope to take the right to say to a company, "you won't do it with us." Thirdly, in 2020, the whole world is talking about the need for our societies to be decarbonized, that by 2030 we have to cut greenhouse gas emissions by half, and we are talking about how we're going to scrape out of Prekmurje from below the ground as little gas as it is there. How is this supposed to go together? We're reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but we're also introducing cracking in Prekmurje. I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The debate yesterday was very long, but we did not hear science, nor practice, what they thought, but even Slovenian science and Slovenian practice. I am concerned that this effect of pollution is defined only on water as such and that this economic aspect has not been seen. Prekmurje has spas, and I wonder who will go to the Prekmurje resorts if we interrupt them from chemical reagents, from which your fingernails and hair fall off. I think we should think about that, too. However, the Municipality of Lendava also sent a very clear call for help that citizens do not agree that they have the problem of being afraid after all, and therefore it seems to me that it is important for us to look a little deeper into this subject and give time. However, I must also say that there is not one representative in this Chamber from Lendava who would take his place. I lived in Lendava for three years, creating architecture and creating urbanism there. I love this town so much, I know what it would mean for them, I know how they feel, so I think it's best that I put my voice on it today. I think the government and the competent ministry have enough time to prepare their bill after Slovenian science is heard. Last but not least, we had the same case with the law on communicable diseases that we received another law in time for one, so I suggest that we not legislate this possibility of poisoning, so that we wait for science and expertise to tell our own. For this reason, I am deciding to support this law today because it seems to me that it deserves more time and a new opportunity to come to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Aljaž Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, President. I'm not Prekmurec, but I'm Prlek. Many times we are replaced, and given that some Prekmurje Members will continue to allow fracking, this time I will also fight as Prlek for Prekmurce. Today and even on the board yesterday, there was a lot of philosophies. The decision here is very simple. On the one hand, we have nature, on the other hand, we have money. Just like my colleague, I think that cracking needs to be stopped. That is why I will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'll back up my efforts not only the Mags. Actual Jews, but all those Premur Members who in fact give priority, not to a free economic initiative, but to people and to protecting the environment and nature. Today is an opportunity to support something that concerns not only Prekmurcs, but all of us, all citizens and citizens in this beautiful country. Today, someone wondered where NGOs were, how they were not loud today. In this case, it is possible to point out the urgent need for the clear and loud functioning of NGOs in our country, as it can only be when policies are not uniform in response to capital needs, even if they take certain rights to the environment, and especially to people, so freedom of expression should also be maintained and the restriction should not be strengthened. Since we will face many challenges in the future, not only the initiatives of repression, but mainly the repression of capital, it is therefore imperative to support NGOs and freedom of expression. This is therefore a unique case where we can support three things in one marriage: to prevent fracking, to allow free expression and to support NGOs. I will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Since there is still an interest in explanation of vote, I will re-launch the application. The first one has the word Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u34	Of course I'll support this law. I stand alone in the view that what I do not really want in my town of Ljubljana, I do not want anyone else. The argument that we are going to do this systematically is actually unacceptable in a kind of way, because in fact, we are dealing with it directly today for clear reasons. But I'm going to tell those who are pleading for the facts, in particular, that they're going to do it systemically. It's very simple. I do not know why foreigners who do not allow this procedure at home go to other countries where this is still possible. Therefore, such procedures must be stopped immediately, without ideological or political manoeuvres for a reason, if you do, we will arrange this differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u36	Thank you very much. We cannot tolerate harmful effects on nature. Questionable now is just a way to reject it. I am confident that Arso, the Environmental Protection Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, will follow the examples prevailing in Europe and will not give consent to such energy acquisition. Here I can also point out that we have another such problem in Slovenia, this is in Ljubljana, channel C0, where your debates, which I have now heard against such an intervention in nature, could actually be copied. I am in favour of prohibiting Arso from acquiring such energy, as I hope he will do in Ljubljana, but not by law. Otherwise we should also adopt a marriage with Ljubljana, but unfortunately you are not, we have it right here in front of us and our drinking water is literally threatened. I'm counting on Arsa, so I'm going against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Please, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u38	Dear President, thank you very much. We live at a time when people, animals and nature must be ahead of capital in all cases, including human relations. When I also talk about us, about the eastern part of Slovenia, when I talk about Prekmurcs, who have actually been continuously suppressed and suppressed through history, I know how a person feels on the edge or on the periphery. When we also talk about fracking, this is the first natural aspect or aspect of health, it is said that people will also live better and healthier lives. If we go to another point, this relationship is between the center and the periphery or I'm talking essentially about decentralisation. As long as the center is constantly negative against the periphery, in this case Prekmurju or Haloze with us, it will be constantly as it is. People are not only resisting fracking, but also resisting the centralisation of Slovenia. And in this case, I am talking about two aspects, in the first case, about human health, about the need to protect nature in principle, on a permanent basis, and also about the fact that the centre does not have the right and must not constantly decide what it does or what the periphery wants. In this case Prekmurje wants to stop fracking or not cracking. Once again, I'm going to repeat the first sentence I said: people, animals and nature are always and always ahead of capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u40	I have already said that I will vote in favour of the law, because fracking is harmful and threatens the values that are very important to us in the SAB party, it is a healthy environment, clean drinking water, the future for the well-being of the generation, that is, the decarbonisation of society. As far as the concerns of certain fellow Members are concerned that this law can trigger compensation claims, I am only responding with the following facts. The fact is that the concession is granted and that certain rights and obligations are derived from the concession. However, Arso found in his administrative procedure that an environmental impact assessment was needed. That's what the concessionaire tried to challenge in court. The court confirmed the need for environmental impact assessment and that Arso had made the right decision. Arso should now only conclude that the concessionaire does not wish to carry out this procedure and either conclude it or conclude it and find that the intervention is unacceptable. In fact, he quietly speaks out, so that I fear that even some sort of compensation action may arise, I simply do not see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u42	Thank you. Not only to the party I belong to but also to me personally, it is very important to me in what environment and in what quality of the environment I live in. Today, Parliament has the opportunity to say clear not to pollution on one particular case. We do not often have this option because too many interests need to be coordinated on other issues in order to have a clear and uniform answer. We who know it have heard today. The government is against it. We heard it yesterday. It has to be banned, but not like that. It's not a systemic solution. These were the arguments why you wouldn't support the law. It's a questionable way. Only two answers are possible to the fracking question — yes or no. And the lawsuits will be millions. How much is Petishovk worth in money? How much is health worth? What is the value of a single life? These are probably questions we'll never get answers to. However, what is really going on today must be said. This is not a question of the Petišov people, it is a question of politics and voting discipline, or command, as we heard yesterday. And this voting discipline, the command is above the benefit of the state and above all the benefit of the people. In fact, you have proved this to all the parliamentary groups in explanation of their votes, which you do not support in this law. You're against cracking, but not now, not like that. Because of discipline and command. That's the only reason. The list of Marjan Šarc and I will personally support this marriage. And you, too, have a chance to make a decision on your conscience and not on someone's command.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u44	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My decision will not change the populist debate. But I've been dealing with this issue a lot. And if the National Assembly, that's my personal opinion, wants to ban any technology for anything, then you should at least go a little deeper. Fracking has never been performed in Prekmurje and will never be implemented. It is important to understand, dear colleagues and colleagues, what fracking is and what stimulation is. The hydraulic cracking of rocks of great magnitude in slates, that's fracking. What's stimulation? This is a hydraulic fracture of the smaller size in the sandstones. But that's not what I'm here for. There's a lot of professional literature. At least the addresses could also be read by proponents and discussants. Yes, but when you go to listen to the obvious, to pay the damages, it's obviously not that kind of problem with you. How many cases have you already accepted and is now paying Slovenia, Slovenian taxpayers pay fantastic millions of damages. I don't have time to mention it. One more time and I'm done. Systemic fracking is required in Slovenia to stop. Even so, and no matter what, even if it never did and never will. Fracking up in Petišovci, I hope you were all there, hoping that you were all in the valley, that you looked at it, never performed there. Fracking never performed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Kepa.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. 2002, it is known which government was in power. That's when Geoenergo gave the concession to an English firm. You were in power for two years — why didn’t you make a proposal six months ago? Two years ago, you didn't shave when the use of minerals was extended. You've been in power for another year. Then why wasn't there a proposal? You can't think like you're doing it on purpose or you want the concession to deal with this government. I'm sure aggressive exploitation won't be in Prekmurje. But the matter has to be resolved systematically through the exploitation of mining, not partially taking something out of it. I am confident that this government will resolve the matter and that there will never be an aggressive exploitation in Prekmurje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. He's not here. Franz Breznik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The State of Slovenia granted a permit for fractionation in the PG10 wells, PG11 in 2020, as my colleague told me. It is a matter of obtaining gas through a non-conventional method where legislation and inspection services have not been prepared for these environmental risks all these years. In 2002, the Slovenian Transitional Left awarded a fracturing concession. Continuation. Remember all mega-Romanian projects, TŠ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 – Slovenian left. Salonit Anhovo with asbestos patients – Slovenian left. Remember Kidrič, clay and everything else, red mud – Slovenian left. If you touch their greatest experiments and the greatest environmental risks, the Slovenian Left has done everything. And now these same people are stumbled by it. I'm against cracking, too. As my colleague Horvath said, he's never even been implemented before. Continuation. But we have opened up a story right in this me, and a solution in this me, I would say to this, a green transition in the use of geothermal energy for electricity production, for the production of vegetables and fruit even in the winter months, that is, for 21st century technologies. If we also want this geothermality, which I have to admit that I received the support of all parliamentary parties at that time, we need a completely new mining law. To reject, on the one hand, fracking, on the other hand, because it coincides with opening could say the full sharing of geothermal energy, which is not only connected to Prekmurje, I have to fix here, we also have a lot of it in Slovenian Gorica, and our capital has a very good potential as well as Dolenjska and so on. Dear colleagues, from a professional point of view, we must be against this law for now because we need a comprehensive mining law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u50	Thank you very much, President. Look, comrades of the coalition, let me show you what you're doing. You're in the inn, there's a British man sitting next to you, eating soup. This British guy spits in your soup, you're still eating that soup. Then he takes the trash off the ground and throws it in your soup, but you're still eating that soup. Then get up, shake some powder from the bulbs into your soup, you're still eating this soup. Well, then he gets up and pays you for lunch and you say, "Thank you so much for your cooperation, see you next time." What you're doing today and your voice against it is exactly what you're doing. You say one thing and you do the other. I will illustrate the literal words of a colleague of your kind: a disgrace to shame. Nature is the only one, and it destroys it. Of course I'll support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u51	Thank you very much. My colleague Natasha Sukić, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Of course I will vote in favour, but I will hide here some of the lies you're wasting. Lie number one. “Fracking never took place in Petišovci”. It was performed in two wells at a depth of 3,000,500 metres according to the classic cracking method. It's a myth and a lie about the distance between slates and sandstones. The Petišov field is, of course, located on the sandstones as is the field in Greeningen, where the fracking is carried out, which the Dutch government prohibits. Why? Because there's a series of earthquakes because of the fracking. Lie number 2: "We will solve this by means of a system law." You won't. As far as I'm aware, your proposal for a system law does not contain this solution once in a while. Then the myth of being sued. They'll sue us if they don't force Ars to do it. They are opposed to even having an environmental impact assessment carried out. So they're gonna sue us anyway if they don't force us to start drilling. If they start drilling, there could be a disaster. At a depth of 3,000,500 meters, when leaks occur, you can't fix this anymore. And this is the end of clean drinking water, the end of clean, beautiful environment and the end of the health of the people living there. You're gambling. A colleague would leave it to Ars. But Arso, if he doesn't do what Ascent Resources wants, they're gonna sue us anyway. So those who have dilemmas, at least abstain, do not vote against the people who call you from the Petišovci, from Lendava. Do not vote against the will of the Lendava Municipal Council and vote or abstain on behalf of at least the national interest and on behalf of the public interest. Please don't gamble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u53	I am warned, fellow Reich, that you have already been on your own. We're voting. Wait. Comrade Jelinczych, you weren't in there. I called you. [[talking to each other]] We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 40. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Slovenian Press Agency Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 37. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Culture as its parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 15th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly shall adopt the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I note that the Final Account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item on the agenda, this is the second reading of the draft law on the financial burden of municipalities in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2020, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 17a. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 18.c. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 18. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 19.b. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 1. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 19.c. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 21. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI, Desus to Article 25b. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 25.c. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present, for 60, against no one. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to more than a dozen articles of the amended bill were adopted, the State Assembly will hold a third reading of the draft law at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the Council adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members, 86, against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the agenda, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Europe Convention on Integrated Access to Security, Security and Services in Football and Other Sporting Events. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the SD Group. The word is Gregor the Jew.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u54	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Sport is a source of national pride, one of the foundations of a community identity that plays its social, social and educational role. It builds values of tolerance, association, healthy sports spirit, competition and respect. Since sport is a society as a whole, it is the task of the State to systematically support it and provide it with institutional and financial support where it needs it and where it is in the public interest. Social Democrats know that we need to work towards strengthening Slovenian top sports as well as recreational sports with the aim of improving the health of the population. We are therefore looking for a positive balance between all kinds of sport and all groups of people, including vulnerable groups and disabled sports. Above all, it is important that sports events offer a safe and pleasant environment for all present, both fans and viewers, organizers and performers and, of course, athletes. Therefore, on the initiative of the SD Group to sign the Council of Europe Convention on an Integrated Approach to Security, Security and Services at football matches and other sports events in 2017, the SD Group supported and welcomed the objectives of the Convention. It updates the way sports events are organised and carried out in order to offer a safer experience, especially when we are talking about moving around stadiums and sports facilities. In doing so, it focuses not only on the narrow aspects of security risks and effective measures to reduce these risks, but also encourages the necessary cooperation and communication between the cheerleading groups, the local community and other public and private organisers of sports events, while at the same time committing ourselves to the Convention to the expectation that sports facilities will fit and will be accessible to children, older persons, disabled persons. This is called infrastructure quality. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to some of the infrastructure weaknesses of sports facilities in Slovenia, since they are rarely built and maintained according to newer standards to ensure the safety of participants in sports events. It is therefore crucial to strengthen state investment in sport and sports infrastructure in particular. I believe that I can speak on behalf of all colleagues and colleagues when I want sports fans to return to the stands as soon as possible, where we will encourage our athletes and athletes, support them and look forward to their success. For they give us confidence that in other areas we are also able to do more, to prove ourselves, and to perfect ourselves. In these uncertain times, when, above all, high-level sport is facing a truly difficult reality of the epidemic, athletes try to act responsibly and correctly, introducing difficult but urgent protocols and measures. This is the least we can do to be responsible and right, as sport remains a connecting element in Slovenia, while ensuring the safety of all of us, fans and viewers, athletes and performers must be crucial. The Social Democrats Group will therefore support the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to security at sports events, as this also supports Slovenian sport and athletes and athletes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. There are no applications for discussion. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The 83 Members and Members present voted 82 against 1. [[The vote was 82.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the day-to-day basis, this is the defence proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement on the suspension of the validity of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 85 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a President and members of the National Election Commission and their deputies. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a President and members of the National Election Commission and their deputies. We're voting. 85 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternates of the members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions for financially inadequate measures and the suspicion of unjustified limitation of rights in the implementation of measures related to the covid-19 epidemic. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. 86 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item — Third defence of the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian military in the years 2021-2026 under the ordinary procedure. Since a proposal for a consultation referendum on the content of this bill was tabled, the 20th meeting was unable to decide, since it had to take account of Article 28 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative when deciding on the proposal for an advisory referendum before the final decision on the draft law. The proposal for a referendum was decided by the assembly at its 21st meeting and decided that the referendum should not be signed and that the condition for deciding on that draft law at that meeting was fulfilled. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendment adopted at second reading at the home work body would have made the proposal inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. This law prescribes one thing, and this is that in the next six years it will be made for 780 million euros in arms purchases for the Slovenian Army. We couldn't have thought of a worse time for a marriage like this. The country has been in the biggest crisis in the last ten years, if not even 30 years, the hospitals are beating our necks, every day they die for one bus people, and everyone else just the opposite, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, we don't go up against the light in the tunnel, but people seem to be breaking into the ground under their feet. In such situations, it is totally unheard of to talk about the key investment in weapons. You say we're going to be saved by the European billions. The 1991 and 1992 budgets, as Janez Janša said in the laps yesterday, show a real picture: for health care, for nursing homes, there will be no money for housing. No industry, no sector has an investment plan for the next six years, as does the Slovenian Army, which will receive €780 million in arms. There will be no comparable investment in health care. The health department gets 69 million chickens next year. Homes for the elderly or long-term care receive 23 million, which is almost 15 times less than the real ministry just to be needed at the annual level. That housing policy, while young people lose their apartments when they can't pay rent, we don't even talk. This one won't lift an inch from the ground. It will receive six million euros, which is the same as all previous years, when we had to tighten our belts and save on the whole line. The only priority that this government has outlined is the purchase of 780 million euros in weapons. You know very well that people disagreed, so you also rejected the consultation referendum. The public opposes this priority for Slovenian development for the next six years. Then we told you, and I will tell you again today, of course we will vote against it, but if the law is passed, you will explain why you set priorities for the military, not for health, housing, development or nursing homes, to people at the legislative referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Rudy Medved, on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u58	Thank you, President. I ask you, Members and Members, I also ask citizens and citizens who have been prevented from accessing the referendum whether now is the right time to plan such extensive investments in the Slovenian Army. That's what we've been asking the Secretary of Defense. In this case, deaf on both ears. He was talking about millions, he was talking about 780 million, like we're not in the middle of the worst crisis, like we're not in the middle of an epidemic that's so brutal in all of life's seasons, even in public finances. In the List of Marjan Šarc we went through this legislative process to the government all the time. They suggested that if the Minister is already forcing this law, which we still believe is not necessary at all, he should provide money for military equipment, for infrastructure, for emergency transport helicopters. We support these investments in the List of Marjan Šarca all the time. In the government of Marjana Šarc, we also pointed this direction by raising funds for the military. But to say the truth, it's not time for armor, it's not time for armor. Our safety is now and will be in future health care. This will help us from the crisis. Our security is the care of the elderly, social welfare, education, the economy. These must be our priorities. That's what people would have told you at the referendum if they hadn't been afraid of him. The epidemic is here, and for a long time, we will feel the consequences of this disaster for a very long time. That is why we have the opportunity to direct all our energies, to channel all our resources, including all the financial resources, to address the consequences of the disaster that has beset us. We're not going to support the marriage in the Marjana Sharca List.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Matjaž German, on behalf of the Group of Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President! For Social Democrats, we understand the role of the Slovenian Army as one of the main pillars of statehood and state. As a sign of respect, we have recently unanimously supported the amendment of the Defence Act, where it regulated the status of soldiers in the key part after 45 years, thereby ensuring greater social security for members of the Slovenian Army. We agree in our work when we are aware of the importance of the role of the military, when we speak in the case of collective security within the framework of the Alliance or even more when we talk about the urgency of the need for protection and resolution, especially during the great epidemiological crisis we are facing. We want modern, well-equipped and highly motivated Slovenian armies. Even at a time when policy must focus primarily on solving the health crisis, the social concerns of citizens and citizens, enhanced economic activities and, of course, with greater emphasis on the scientific research area than of course education and culture. Unfortunately, we are of the same opinion as our predecessors that the time and challenges facing not only the Slovenian society, but a global society, are not suitable for such an important contribution to an army that is not aimed at protecting and saving, but at equipping with weapons. The opinion of the Group of Social Democrats is that this law is unnecessary at the moment, so we will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is given by Joseph Horvat, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President! Parliamentary Group New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support this law. Why? Because we're not afraid of the Slovenian Army. These are our friends, our relatives. Speaking of numbers, we're talking about an extra 300 million, really extra. My four-year-old granddaughter can calculate it, she can split it into six years, and then she says 50 million dollars are coming a year. I believe her. It is an additional 50 million per year for investments in our – Slovenian army. By comparing PKP6, which will be adopted next week, this will weigh €1 billion, not for six years, the funds will be spent to help people and the economy here and now. The army never takes. The Slovenian army never takes. The army gives and is one of the pillars of Slovenian statehood. That's what I learned from my dear Professor Ljubica Jelusič. For example, proof that the military is giving — yes, the military first gave 30 million for health care. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this year's rebalancing. The Ministry of Defence gave $30 million to healthcare in the balance sheet this year. I was honored that the SAZU, or more specifically the Council for Development at the SAZU, had asked me to present this law at their meeting. The result is an intensive dialogue between the Development Council at the SAZU and the MORS. It's not about iron, it's not just about hardware, it's about software. I hope you understand. This and there are many reasons, if we have only taken 10 years or more of the army, yes, we have always only taken, then it is time for this important pillar of Slovenian statehood to be strengthened. It will also, of course, improve their standard of living and so on and so forth. The army never takes. The army is helping. The army does. That's why we vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group? No, no, no. We're just gonna go through the applications. Applications are under way. The first word is Violet Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u64	There is no way I can agree to the argument that now is the right time to buy and invest in an army worth 780 million. Even if this, as the predecessor said, is 5 million a year, it is still the home of older citizens per year [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] All right, most of them are leaving now. It will be very difficult for me to come together to argue my own. However, it is terrifying that right now when we face the worst epidemic in the history of Slovenia when [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Maybe we should stop and wait for you to calm down. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u65	Begin, colleague Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I sincerely apologize. I have to raise my voice to hear it because it's really a total schunder in the hall, which I find disrespectful and unacceptable. I never bother anyone when he talks. In short, I cannot agree with you that it is now at the time of the greatest epidemic, when people die daily, when they are afraid, when they are without help, when health care can no longer bear this burden and this effort that now is the time for investments, so-called investments in the Slovenian Army. We'll give you 780 million. Even if the predecessor said that it was only 5 million a year, it is one home for older citizens per year. This seems unacceptable to me that we have our priorities so wrongly set. People aren't our priority. Today we have a lot of elderly people, after some calculations of 11,000, but I see that every day there are more who are waiting for a bed in foster homes for the elderly, where there are not enough staff, where there are no beds and even capacity. And we're dreaming about some kind of investment. I absolutely disagree with that. We have also heard that these weapons will be procured in Hungary. I don't know what debt and whose debt we have to repay to Hungary, so we have to spend so much money on them. We didn't get anything from them. But we have been given a mandate from people who rightly expect us to take care of them. For them first. To help them and to alleviate their terrible fear of the future. Now we are facing this severe health crisis when it calms down, and I sincerely hope that it will calm down, a difficult economic crisis where we will face severe unemployment and social pressures. I am absolutely against such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle."
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we do not vote for the Slovenian Army. We all stand for this institution that the state needs. Today we vote on weapons. 75% of citizens of Slovenia object to this purchase from public funds because people do not die today because there would be too little weapons in Slovenia. They die during covid’s time — and almost a thousand is already this number — because this money is not invested in hospitals, nursing homes, emergency nurses, doctors, and their better reward. Colleagues, colleagues! This is no time for guns. This is no time for armory. What does Slovenia need? The Republic of Slovenia bloodyly needs health care, social security, economic security, education security and cultural security. Our country needs some fucking environmental security, too. Responsible guidance and investment is investment for these security. I therefore absolutely oppose this crazy investment in weapons. Let's invest in people and people.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u70	Your Honor! This complete madness, this madness, this waste of money, that we will throw 780 million for a weapon that we will not need in general here, but on foreign missions, and that one day will soon lie as a pile of brown iron somewhere in the waste, I will certainly say no. And I'm only going to look at the health aspect. Today, in one previous vote, you have proved that you care about people's health. You voted against health and safety in Petišovci. And now you will once again vote against strengthening public health, the one who is fighting for our lives and for our security in this terrible crisis that we are in. We are at war with the virus, respected, and we need to strengthen public health. Instead of directing this 780 million to strengthen public health, you are doing business and business, whether it is the famous Ascent Resources Corporation from some tax havens or whether it's American and some other arms companies. Business, business, business, what do you people care about? I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is Jerco Korca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. The fact is that the time for the adoption of such a law and such an enormous investment is most inappropriate right now when we face an epidemic. This is kind of my substantive argument, why I'm going to vote against it. But since we are politicians, I also have a political argument. This is that I heard the Prime Minister say on national television yesterday that he had adopted budgets for the years 1991 and 1992. Whoever read the books of that time and what happened in the field of arms business will apply the precautionary principle and will not confirm 780 million in the time of the government of Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that! All in attendance, all in attendance! It's as safe with the air as it is with the air. If we have it, we don't even notice it, but when it's gone, it's bad. We can't breathe anymore. Unfortunately, what then continues is also experienced by our patients with covid, our fellow citizens. We can't afford to say now, now is the time, and now is not the time. These investments in the Slovenian Army are as urgent for the Slovenian Army as it is necessary to rebuild the roof after the chair is rolled or exposed by a storm. When we're out of the roof, first the attic is destroyed, if we don't solve the problem by covering it, then the first floor goes, then the building goes completely. We will not allow the ruin of our house, nor the country of Slovenia. We will not let the Slovenian Army fail, so we support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u76	Thank you so much for the president's words. In this country, we have to pour clean wine once. We don't choose between nursing homes, health care or defense. We have to have everything in this country. The problem is that hospitals and nursing homes have not been built because dedicated money has disappeared deliberately over the decades. And the army has absolutely nothing to do with it. The problem in this country is the theft of taxpayer money. Those who want to work for the elderly and the sick should start fighting systemic corruption directly, and those who had fingers in marmalade should be condemned. So much populism on the part of Levica and I also have to respond to some of the obvious. We won't buy anything from the Hungarians because they also buy from the Germans. Speaking of populism, it's also right to say that when we say it's going to go 780 million for weapons. What kind of weapon?Oh, my God! We're talking about pants, shoes, warlocks, helicopters, planes, we're talking about investing 1% in security. Moreover, I see with my own eyes what is happening in the National Assembly: manipulation, lies, turning words to myself and lying. Of course, the sentence to put more money into health care than to put it into the military falls to fertile ground. People say bravo, bravo. And that's exactly what Lefty does, and that's what he advocates, because people like to hear it. 780 million is earmarked for the military for the next six years, that is 1% of the budget. As members of NATO, however, our commitment was 2%. While today we devote 38% of the budget to health care. The army has paid $30 million for cod today. Similarly, health care today received 350 million. I advise you, my esteemed colleagues in Levic, to go to the government and change the world. Miha Kordish would be a wonderful Secretary of Defense. Go to the government and change the world. I will, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u77	Let's stick to the explanation of the voice. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u78	Look, someone who tells me they're going from 38% budget to health at the same time, they tell me that I'm lying. My friend Alexander, I told you last time that you put together two cash registers. It's the same as me adding up the pension fund, and how much do we fugee the pension fund, let's say that. I'm afraid he's every party's minister in a repressive district. And Mihe Kordish wouldn't want to defend himself. One is lapsus, the other is stupidity, which comes out of irresponsibility, and we come to danger. Now I wouldn't abuse this Janša's laps long and wide here, even though it probably shows what time it got stuck. I also said Idaho last time, but I meant Iowa, of course, because every sighting man knows that Iowa is the largest producer of corn and pig in the United States. It is irresponsible for any Prime Minister to say that he does not watch statistics, does not have time for statistics, but has time to spend at least three hours on Twitter. From this irresponsibility comes the stupidity of a government that reacts twice as late as 12 to 14 days and then comes some death threat that some beings, omises, and so on, die as a result. There's a lot of irony that we're told about air by someone who's been shopping for foster care that doesn't drink water. I didn't see NSI say that we had to stop corruption, and that government that cooked this affair must fall. We're not at war with the virus, we're at war with our stupidity, and we have to deal with it. We're going to have to learn to live with the virus, which is explained to you by everyone who's been dealing with viruses for the rest of your life. That is also why we must stop this defensive view of a virus that literally kills people. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u79	The word is Marjan Sarec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u80	It is a dilemma or a dilemma set by the minister, that anyone who does not support this law is against the Slovenian Army. This sentence alone is enough to know where it leads. And you can't support that. As far as marriage is concerned, we don't need a special law to buy military equipment. I'm sure you don't. We have always appreciated the Slovenian Army, and I personally appreciate it very much, is the successor to the Territorial Defence, which has brought independence to this country, and we are very well aware of that. However, we cannot support some populists who adopt a law and thereby cast sand into the eyes of the Slovenian Army, even though they are full of mouths, as they strive for the Slovenian Army. Then we noticed that the Slovenian Army helicopter had not transported the mother who had been infected with the cavid, and they had to take her to Ljubljana with an ambulance. Let the Minister first provide security equipment to the crew of the helicopter so that they can carry out these transports. That's my suggestion. Then we'll keep talking. The biggest reason why we cannot support this law is because we do not trust that this minister and team, along with John Janša, will be able to make a purchase, which will not be another affair in a series of many who were in the past when military equipment was purchased, and from Israeli haubics onward. That's why I can't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u81	Vojko Starović has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm in charge of equipping the army, because that's right, because we have an obligation to Nate, and the army has to be. But it is an extremely inappropriate time to equip now when Slovenia is sinking in debt, seriously sinking in debt and I am afraid of this situation. Me, as an economist. You're something we're doing right now, you'd never afford it. You have received Slovenia from previous generations, see 1995 how much total indebtedness was, and then it jumped rapidly, especially in the time of Mr Janša it jumped there until 2008, 2009. Then it was necessary to resolve this common responsibility against the foreign, because the banks would collapse, the economy would collapse, people would lose their homes because they would have to leave their homes if they had left their foreign creditors. And that's a fact. These are the numbers from Umar. It's nothing, not even a little fabricated. As we have done so, all these years, if I look now from 2008, when we have to pay interest, which has gone beyond a billion. For every billion of us, when we paid these interest needlessly, because we owed ourselves, rather than being in a casino, we got drunk, we owed everything on average, households, companies, everything. And that's what happened to us. For each year, when we paid interest, my dears, when it was a billion for every year, we would easily equip this army. And now we're going even deeper. Don't joke and don't waste money, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u84	Thank you, President, for your word. We have a dilemma on the table – 780 million for weapons and nothing for Maribor projects. For me, the dilemma is very simple – for Maribor. That's why I'm voting against this law because Minister Tonin can buy shoes, clothes and all the equipment he wants for the military right now, no problem. Why he doesn't want to do it, but it's another question. My vote will be against.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word Andrej Chernigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u86	Thank you, President, for your word. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats and the government coalition restore dignity to the Slovenian Army. As Vice-President of the Defence Committee, I will be happy to vote in favour of this law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army, as we, among other things, follow the commitment of Mr Marjan Sarc. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which is a state treasury, is allocated EUR 3 000 500 million. In addition, we add 350 million euros in this budget. On the other hand, we allocate 1% of the national budget to the Slovenian Armed Forces for equipment. With everything I have said, we are ensuring the future in the Slovenian Army, which is already reflected in citizens and citizens who show a greater interest in serving in the Slovenian Army. The new Slovenia, with this government, has cut into several years of Gordis knots in the Slovenian Army. Mr Tonin, Minister of Defence, saved the social security of Slovenian Army soldiers after a decade by adopting the Defence Act. The military gave only 30 million euros to health this year. On the other hand, on the other hand, I repeat, 350 million have been added. As I said, I will be very pleased to support the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Comrade Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u88	Yeah, look, maybe some kids are watching that, too, and the grandkids are able to count. The legislative body is the National Assembly, not Minister Tonin or any other. And we've decided that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u89	This was not a procedural proposal. I suggest we move on. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, chairman. The whole country is in an epidemic, only Janez Janša in war. This way we could see him on national television yesterday, accepting budgets for 1991 and 1992, while in Slovenia in 2020 hospitals are limping through stitches, there are 12 thousand elderly people in line for the homes of the elderly, there are no infectious clinics for Ljubljana and Maribor for the next two years, we are missing 10,000 public rental apartments for young people, and finally we need a modern rail network and sustainable mobility as part of the response to climate damage. None of this is addressed under the government of Janez Janša and will not be addressed if we devote 780 million euros to arms transactions. If this law is passed, the government of Janez Janša will hurry by signing such and other arms contracts and any subsequent government will find it very difficult to revoke them. What citizens and citizens of the Slovenian Army would really need, but out of all these 780 million Euros, there is no hard business. I'm talking about helicopter emergency. This law stipulates that helicopters will not be bought to protect and rescue, but specialised helicopters for emergency medical care, but two to teeth armed helicopters for the purposes of Nate's special forces and, of course, for over 400 million armoured men. I will vote against the law to throw 780 million euros for weapons. Any euro that goes for weapons will be reduced for vital social sub-systems. In Levica, we will also take this law to the edge of the referendum. For prosperity, not for weapons.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u91	The word is Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Investment in the Slovenian Army, thereby bountiful title of this law, by forgetting that the actual core of the Slovenian Army has nothing to do with it. The Slovenian soldier shall only receive the smallest items within these 780 million transferred to his equipment. None of this, however, is passed on to improving its working situation; nothing is passed on to improving its social situation. Slovenian soldiers will now and in the future go even more intensively for a decent salary in Afghanistan, after a decent salary in Kosovo. But it's not just the soldiers of the victim and the hostages of this government maneuver, the heavy 780 million of our money. The biggest hostage of this law is the social state. Homes for the elderly, the problem of species for older people’s homes would be solved only by the item that buys armor within these 780 million. 480 million only for armored personnel. But 300 million would be needed to take all the elderly to their homes where they want to go. Then here's health. Unscrupulously little, only 60 million for investments in secondary and tertiary health care in the budget for the coming year is allocated to the government. And shamelessly 780 million for guns. Such a law must be rejected at this time of crisis, the most inappropriate time. We need to give these resources to people, not to weapons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. In the fight against the epidemic, the government fully covered it. We are at the European summit by the number of deaths caused by the epidemic. If we've taken the first wave as successfully as possible, we've really covered it in the second wave. Dear colleagues, and distinguished colleagues, at this time the Slovenian Government hopes to propose a bill worth €780 million for weapons. That's scandalous. It's scandalous. And I have nothing against the Slovenian Army, but today, in these most difficult times since Slovenia's independence, to invest so much money for weapons is a pig. I will vote against this, and I believe that if this law gets a majority in the National Assembly, citizens and citizens will reject it at the referendum. We're not at war in Slovenia. We are in a serious epidemic, although the Prime Minister obviously does not understand it or does not want to understand it, so he also speaks of the adoption of budgets during this so-called self-serving war. And as long as we think about it, I believe we won't be able to dig ourselves out of these deep and large numbers of infected people. I believe that reason will prevail in the National Assembly, if not, but we will break the law among the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-20-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 36. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the law has been passed. I conclude with this, this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 17 November 2020, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of Mr Sarc's question on the current situation in the country. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question by Dr Franz Trčko on the fight against the tragic statistics of the epidemic. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of Luke Mesca on the most effective response to the epidemic. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simone Kustec and Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar to the question of Mr Aljaž Kovacič on the temporary closure of the Institute for Education and Education of Children and Adolescents with Special Needs. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 47. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for John Cigler King to the question of mags. Bojane Muršič in connection with the implementation of public works in 2021. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of the post-Soviet question Primož Siter on distance education problems in primary and secondary schools. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar to Maša Kociper's question on the national call for assistance to the public health system, including private health institutions. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavliška to the question of Mr Pavlič's question on the resolution of the guest sector. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the question of the mission of Mr Nataša Sukič concerning the persecution of civil society, culturers and artists from Metelkova 6, and the planned construction of the natural science museum on this site. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to Robert Pavšić's question on the statutory calculation of the amount of minimum wage. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar to the question of Bosniak Koražija on the provision of healthcare workers in hospitals with basic health care and goods. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Janez Cigler King to the question of Jerce Korča on infections with the new crown virus in the homes for older citizens. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a resource responsible for development and European cohesion policy, Zvonka Černač, to Mark Bandelli's question on European funds. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovec, to the question of Mr Željk Cigler, on waste incineration in TŠ 6. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to the question of Mr Vojk Starović's question on violent protests and police. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of the mission of Lidija Dijak Mirnik concerning the establishment of a modern multimodal cargo logistics centre at Maribor Airport. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Mr Lilliana Kozlovich asked Tina Heferle about the procedure for the appointment and promotion of state prosecutors. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of mag. Andrej Reich in connection with vignettes and road taxes. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Lilliana Kozlovic to the parliamentary question of Violeta Tomić regarding the confirmations of new state prosecutors in the government. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Mr Andrej Širclja asked Jože Lenart about the public debt of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for John Cigler King to the question of employment by Bosniak Koražija. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Shirclj to the question of the Mag. Andrej Reich's tax policy. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Visiak to the question of Zeljko Cigler in relation to flood protection in Celje. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš, on the closure of the Trat railway crossing in Škofja Loka. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the question of Mr Mesca's question on the consequences of the Minister's actions on the position of workers in culture. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja asked Violet Tomić about the crisis state aid to religious officials. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
