ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Franz Kramar. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the participation at a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly was announced by Mr Krivec and Mr Horváth. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the Draft Amendment to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I propose a list of applications for consideration of the specific part of the Draft amending budget. I'm guessing there's no sign-in. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 14 November 2020. We are moving to the budgetary user 1522 – Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Statistical Research and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Comrade Duck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u2	Good morning. Thank you so much for saying that. On Monday, the Prime Minister of the Government said we're not in the business of Statistics. At the same time, it was the first time that the first man of Statistics was replaced when the government changed. After what came out because he did not give raw data to a gentleman whose lady was not elected to a function here, which is not, on the basis of the law, to give – raw data on the state of certain companies in Slovenia. In these times, when we really need to have and well-called official statistics and a very strong and functioning Umar and also a strengthened analytical department at Banka Slovenije, it is kind of crazy to lower funds on these budget items. Now I don't know how we're going to do post-Koronic recovery, how we're going to do these weird little PKPs. I don't know, we're gonna spit on our finger and we're gonna open the window and we're gonna put it out and then we're gonna model things on that basis. This is also why there is a joint amendment of the KUL coalition, which, of course, repays to the important body, the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the funds it needs for its operation. It's just for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Research and Development and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting forward a sub-programme for the preparation of analyses and forecasts as well as an amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody want to talk? Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u4	Yeah, actually, it's the same story I mentioned earlier. With this amendment, we are only returning funds to Umar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Who else has it? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for budgetary control and to the debate on the amendment tabled with the budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Internal control, the audit of budget spending and the audit and the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] I'm a friend of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u6	Look, this is a similar madness. At a time when we have such a deeply indebted budget, it would reduce my resources to the authority that is supposed to take care of the transparency of this budget in question and, with the amendment, we are returning the funds we have withdrawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Defence and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of equipment and infrastructure and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Levic, LMŠ and SD. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the four sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting forward a sub-programme to support technological development projects as well as the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. I see that there is no desire for debate, I am concluding the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme creating jobs and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB sent groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm a friend of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u8	114th Article of the Constitution states that ministers are independent within their respective sphere powers, and in this budget we deposit our money with the Ministry of Finance instead of being responsible by ministries and now there will be some financeminister of root and rod. With this amendment, including with the previous one, we are only following the eluded practice of having these items in the ministries, not in the Ministry of Finance, but in the Ministry of Finance, where I personally believe that it would be necessary to change the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Promoting the technological development of the economy and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Effective marketing and promotion of Slovenia and the amendment of the LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. I see there's no desire to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Infrastructure and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the three sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Effective use of energy and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and Levica sent groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the development of the highway and road network and the two amendments of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? My friend just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Yesterday, we heard the Minister of Finance, as well as the President of the Government, that this is a country's highly investment-oriented budget, that the country has never had more than 2 billion Euros so far for various investments. The Minister of Finance, Mr Šircelj, said that they would invest most in road and rail infrastructure and in road infrastructure he highlighted in particular the third development axis. However, in this country we do not have only a third development axis and we do not have just another track. That's what you're talking about. It's like playing shit. There are other railway links, and there are other developmental axes, and this amendment, which we tabled first in line, touches the fourth development axis and on the part that is essentially the most nourished part — the area or the route between Želen and Lower Idrija or Idrija. This is about 20 km long section, for which the country does not have prepared or ideas, but other plans to update this part of the fourth development axis. I have been trying for some time to convince the Ministry of Infrastructure that this most neglected part of the fourth development axis will finally put into the development programme plan and in the country's or the Ministry of Infrastructure's development plans, so an amendment of EUR million has been tabled to finally begin with the division. As it is said, there is not only a second track in this country, there is not only a third development axis, we also have a third A development axis, if you want, we have a fourth development axis, we have many areas of the Republic of Slovenia that are separated from the motorway and also from the rail network, and in this direction this amendment, which I have proposed, goes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme the Integrated Public Passenger Transport System and the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ and Levica parliamentary groups. Comrade Reich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u12	In the SAB Group, together with opposition partners, we have tabled a proposal to provide financial means for the provision of free urban transport for pensioners over 65 years of age, veterans of war and disabled persons in places where this is already carried out as a public service. We have very excellent experience in the area of cross-country passenger transport, and we want to transfer this experience to all Slovenian cities and places where this form of transport is already being carried out, so please all support this proposal. However, we declare and make a commitment that if this amendment does not receive sufficient support in the vote, we will continue to talk and fight about it. As soon as possible, we will also accept this, so that free urban transport for pensioners over 65 years of age, veterans of war and disabled persons will be available to all these users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Infrastructure Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia and to the discussion on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads and the four amendments of the LMŠ Group Members and one amendment of the SAB Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the four sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Adaptation to climate change and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. I'm a friend of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Actually, it's the same story. The Ministry of Finance is not a ministry where there is a meeting of experts to adapt to climate change. We are moving this item to a ministry that is supposed to deal with environmental and spatial protection, although the current minister is more of an infrastructure minister than an climate change minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Water Management and the two amendments of the SD Group of Members. My friend Buckowitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Yesterday, we could hear quite a bit on the right hand side how the amendments tabled by the opposition — the unfortunate opposition — are unnecessary, populist and, in fact, simply to push some political points. I must say that I myself have tabled some amendments, which are not that populist, but are absolutely necessary, and in fact do not differ much from those which you colleagues from the right in previous years when you were in the opposition, you have also invested yourself, and now that you are in the saddle, I will say so, and the amendments you have tabled at the time did not come into effect in budgets 2021 and 2022, so they are absolutely necessary. It is amazing that there are still pieces in Slovenia where houses are not connected to water infrastructure, especially in Kočevska, where farms are some isolated, which represent a good part of the agricultural economy, which are not connected to water networks. We therefore propose that, within the framework of the main programme, sustainable water use and water management be increased by €840 000 for the construction of water cover for isolated farms in the Kočevska region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme on the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of natural values and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. My friend Buckowitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u18	I continue with what I pointed out earlier in the previous amendment, but this is the Rudnik Lake in Kočev, which represents such a great environmental and tourist potential in Kočevska. There is also a path around him that many citizens use. The lake offers many recreational opportunities from boating to swimming, diving and, if the environmental and tourist importance of this lake is to be preserved, it is also necessary to provide funds for this. I therefore propose that the sustainable water use and water management programme increase the sub-programme Water Management by €300,000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme on waste water management and the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? My friend just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will discuss the second amendment tabled by the SD Group on the rehabilitation of half a thousand-year mining in Idria. In view of the long-standing mining, it is necessary to protect the area directly above the mine itself and to protect the city of Idrija from the consequences of the possession and other consequences of mining damage, damage to infrastructure and other infrastructure and public and private housing facilities in a degraded environment, as well as to the health conditions of former miners and residents of the city that have occurred in the influential areas of the mine in the wider Idrija area. In the last year of the year from November 2019 to November 2020, I have put three questions on this topic to three different ministries, as this is an extremely cross-cutting issue. First of all, I put a question to Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku in November 2019, who has declared himself unfit or his Ministry, which leads him, to be unfit for this area. In fact, in 2017, the country eliminated the company Rudnik of mercury Idrija and by the fact that it is no longer a company, although all mining infrastructure exists under the city, said Minister Restovalšek, no longer the address for the payment of mining damage. Thus, the Ministry has put aside this problem, although I must say that the Ministry co-finances monitoring and observation of movements in the Idrija area. This is the responsibility of Idria's Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Mercury, which owns this and manages this infrastructure. Then, in June of this year, I asked the Minister for Environment and Space, who also said that this is not the area in which this Ministry deals, but that we should find some common solutions within the whole government. The last question I asked was, a few days ago, on Monday, I asked Minister Zvonk Černač, who was responsible for development and cohesion policy, whether it was possible for the Fund for a Fair Transition, which is primarily aimed at the rehabilitation of coal regions, to include in this European fund the degraded area of the Living Silver Mine Idrija and the city of Idrija. I got a pretty general answer. In addition to the coal areas in Slovenia, it is said that the Savinij-Shale region and Zasavje, which are entitled to these funds from the Fair Transition Fund, Slovenia is seeking to include in this fund some other areas, namely the mountainous or northern coastal, mountainous and Koro region, with some deserted industrial areas. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has commissioned a special study, which has again failed to examine whether the area of the former Idrija mine and the consequences of half a thousand-year mining are part of the financing of recovery from the Fair Transition Fund. So the ministries are taking this problem as a hot bone in hand, so I proposed an amendment to fix the mining damage and degraded environment in Idrija for 2021. Indeed, since 2017, the country has not paid any more mining damage, even though damage has occurred and is now occurring at infrastructure and other facilities, as the area is still moving in terms of monitoring and observation. I hope this amendment is adopted. Hope, of course, dies last. In any event, regardless of whether the funds will be included in this budget, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should finally address this problem, as it did not even contribute in one period to the maintenance of the unsupplied part of the mine, which could have a disastrous effect on a city of more than 6,000 inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mag. Jew, did you want a word? No, no, no. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Environmental Protection Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the two sub-programmes in this budget user. I am putting to the debate first the sub-programme Air Quality and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody want to talk? My friend Franz Runk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u22	We're used to logic not being the stronger side of this government. Yesterday we listened to how everything green, digital and so on will be needed, while at the same time the funds on the two sub-programmes of the Slovenian Environmental Protection Agency: air quality and the following sub-programme – not to advertise twice – Waste management. How do we do that? On the one hand, we will walk green and on the other hand we will monitor air quality more poorly or we will not deal with a serious area which, on one particular occasion, was very well discussed by our colleague Bevk. Therefore, the KUL Coalition has tabled these two amendments to maintain these funds for Arsa on these two items.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme on waste management and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the six sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting forward a sub-programme to support the employment and rehabilitation of people with disabilities and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u24	Thank you, President. Dear Members, honourable Members, Madam Secretary of State, other present, a nice greeting! In Slovenia, according to September data, 12 000 500 unemployed people are disabled, of which about 10 000 are long-term unemployed. To help these people, we also have a special law through which about 2,000 disabled people go into employment rehabilitation each year. However, this law was found to be a mistake. Let me describe it to you. When a disabled person is in employment rehabilitation, where he works, the current system is such that if he works more than 100 hours, he gets more than 40 per cent of the minimum wage, or if we convert it to euros, just over 400 euros. Now listen to the point. A lot of people with disabilities can't even work 100 hours because they can only work four hours a day. So basically it works within employment rehabilitation, it creates some added value and it doesn't get any income. At the same time, our proposal is to go to a system similar to that of social activation. It is a system for disabled persons working up to 128 hours, i.e. 60 to 128, so those who can only work for four hours a day will receive the same income as for social activation. I think this is 69 per cent of the minimum wage, I think it's about €507 right now. But if he works more than 128 hours a month and we have cases like this, he gets 83 percent. That's over 600 euros. In fact, people with disabilities who are most difficult in our country can be compared to people who are in social activation. Why haven't we opened this problem before? Because I suppose it was awkward for these people to tell them how difficult they were, and at the same time they expect, they hope to get the job forward where they are rehabilitating and they have not triggered it. I did not come across this problem until June this year in the office of the Member, where the lady who was working in employment rehabilitation came to me and said, look, it's so late for me. I hope that where I'm being rehabilitated now, they're taking me into a regular work relationship, but for the sake of others, I've come to you. That's why this marriage was filed last week. But since we are the opposition, our marriage was restored. In fact, it was said that because it is not in the budget of 2021 of this money inside, you cannot write down that with a law worth €5 million, you are helping people with disabilities. This law, when considered – I believe it will be widely agreed – we can make it useful in 2021 only in the case of honourable Members and Members, if we vote today on a special amendment that gives EUR 5 million to this item. That's what we do to help people with disabilities. Once again, people with disabilities who can work through employment rehabilitation only four hours a day have no income at this point because the limit is 100 hours a month. So, let's help the disabled, please, for your votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme of scholarships and an amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Food of students, students and students, as well as the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion a sub-programme of supporting activities in the field of work, family and social affairs and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. My friend Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. The municipality of Ribnica will approach the demolition of the existing ideal center, where the building has been closed for years and is, in fact, left to collapse, at the same time showing a markedly poor appearance. In this place, a multigeneration centre is planned, which would represent an acquisition for the entire municipality, as it would represent either a centre or a space for culture, sport, association, accommodation and would represent a central meeting place in the local environment for all generations. We therefore propose to increase the support activities sub-programme by €1 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of Social Protection Programmes and the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica. A colleague of mags. Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We're talking about the Older Ages program. It is a humanitarian programme that promotes volunteering and assistance among older people. So it only helps people who are over 69 years of age who, for example, cannot go to the store or can't do their own chores at home. In fact, the promotion of volunteering among older people and the EUR 600,000 measure significantly improves their lives, while at the same time it also means savings for the state budget. By volunteering, with the country's estimated contribution of EUR 600,000, we are significantly exceeding and covering significantly higher costs that would arise if these aids were to be implemented professionally. Therefore, we ask you to support this proposal by the Elder for the elderly, who primarily helps the elderly and encourages volunteering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Long-term care and the amendment of the members of the Lévica, LMŠ, SAB and SD groups and the amendments of the SD Group Members. Colleague Bojana Mursic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u30	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues! The covid epidemic virus has greatly affected the homes for the elderly, which means that more rapid and appropriate steps are needed in this area. Human and financial malnutrition is extremely high, which is 85 percent of the virus has come and ultimately it is necessary to protect this most difficult and vulnerable population, which is located in these homes because of its disease, age weakness, injury, disability and dependence on foreign aid. That is why it is so important that we look at this group of people with other eyes, with more important eyes, and provide sufficient means to build homes for the elderly. At the same time, it is important to remember that 12,000 pensioners are still desperately waiting for their own kind or homecoming. In previous times, the government has moved forward in updating existing homes, heating them up, and the House of Danice Vogrinec has been involved — the kitchen has been updated, the laundry has been updated — and homes want to build or establish new dislocated units. Among these is Dom Danice Vogrinec, who wants to build a dislocated unit in Ruša, which is the only administrative unit that has no home for the elderly, but somehow forgets about this administrative unit. In view of the fact that funds have been invested in the modernisation of the kitchen and laundry facilities over the past years, it is correct that homes be built in this area or expand existing capacities. It saddens me that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has spent only EUR 23 million in the budget for 2021, which means that by means of these funds we could ensure the construction of two to three homes, which is certainly not enough or follow a coalition contract that talks about five new ones – I welcome – I am not talking about public homes, I am not talking about concessional homes, although the concession is awarded and we will hear their results slowly, because in concessional homes and public homes the price is significantly different. Therefore, it is so important that the state builds public homes that homes are being built in which it will be possible to set up such red zones and gray zones, because in the existing ones that are now, it is extremely difficult. The country somehow forgot about these, even though the outbreak of the first wave showed all the misery in these homes, the second wave took them even more seriously. Directors of institutions or home are facing a great deal of distress. Every morning when they step up, I don't think they're sleeping anymore, because they don't know how to organize work; they have infections between employees and the worst that's happened to spread among the elderly. That is why it is so much more important to provide earmarked resources in this budget. We are planning new, additional EUR 50 million on this budget line, because this is the only way to ensure the construction of three new homes. But certainly not only homes are the biggest problem; the problem is also the cadre, because if we are to have walls and capacities, we also need to ensure human resources skills. That is why it is so important that we have sufficient resources, since the sting of $23 million for long-term care is essential. At the annual level, it is estimated that EUR 300 million would be needed; only 23 million were advocated in the budget by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. How many years would that be, 300 million? I won't talk at all. Therefore, I ask the coalition partners to support our amendment in order to provide from the budget line an additional 50 million to start homes for older people building in 2021 and only God knows what year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u31	Thank you very much. My friend Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u32	Thank you very much. So, if I continue in the context of my colleague Bojana and given the fact that waiting lines are large, that homes are full and if we take into account the fact that there are no empty or adequate facilities for older people on the south-eastern part of Slovenia from Ljubljana to the border with Croatia, we can find that we can get the right solutions quickly so that the capacity we probably have in all municipalities is somehow improved and done to protect the apartment. One of these is also in Kočev, where at the location of today's Name we would try to arrange or arrange 49 shelters provided, which would mean for these places, for this region in fact a lot of acquisitions. I therefore propose that, under the sub-programme, long-term care be increased by EUR 5 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Health and to discuss the amendments tabled to the sub-programmes tabled in this budget user. I am further putting forward the sub-programme Investment Investments at the primary level and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. My friend Franz Runk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. You probably remember that picture from this summer: the sun, the europaettes in front of a semi-broken building and the waiting people for testing. I admit that my cell phone burned down on short leave. It's the Health Department, Tezna. The fact is that in this house in six and a half years I have probably said a hundred times that the Municipality of Maribor is a municipality that is deprived of over 20 million between mandatory tasks and actual inflows into the budget, and in fact this item of 10 million is moving funds from a building of covid to a real investment item at the primary level to help complete two health stations in Maribor. Yesterday the Esdees are esdees, and at present there is no one here, not even the Esemasian, or both of these MEPs from Maribor somehow claimed how these money was guaranteed. That's not true! In fact, this proposal by Montenegro is merely mentioned, but it does not guarantee it, on the infection section of UKC Maribor, but it is already the next point and here they have the opportunity to actually prove themselves whether they are mature Members or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment investments at secondary and tertiary level and the two amendments of the SD, LMŠ and SAB groups, the amendment of the SNS Group of Members, the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors and the two amendments of the LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u36	Yes, thank you. The first two amendments to this item refer to a secondary and tertiary level, and to avoid being so local patriotic, I will start with the second, where from that item covid is transferred to the Investment item at a secondary and tertiary level of 25 million. It's actually an amendment to finally start building a new gastroenterology clinic. If anyone visited that beautiful, protected Fabiani building, he saw, as I had said several times before, that the building was earlier for the museum of medical development in Slovenia, including the Partisan work – a colleague of Bevk will probably say something about Franja at the second amendment. The fact is that four generations of gastroenterologists and other experts working at this clinic are working under impossible conditions, that it is essentially about 70 percent for cancer patients who receive treatment in the corridors, and it is in fact essential that they go to this construction immediately, but not to seek some relocations, but they will be moved here and there. The second amendment concerns investments in UKC Maribor. Even when colleague Židan was president of the National Assembly, I chair of the Committee on Health, we are the principles of this subject, and I have already repeated this too many times, if someone before us or perhaps even some Member from those times decided that we have a University Clinical Centre in Maribor, that we have a Medical College that we also need, we also need serious investment investments in UKC Maribor. Here again is the shift of 20 million from that covid assumption to investments in tertiary level. There are a number of things that need to be addressed or repaired or built in Maribor, from the kitchen and fire safety to the actual new lung department in the city. So much for a moment, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u38	Thank you, President. UKC Maribor covers a third of Slovenia, UKC Ljubljana two thirds at tertiary level. From 2009 to 2018, investment from the state budget was relatively and appropriate — although for all too little — divided; then, I do not know who, what and why, broke the 2019-2020 and almost wiped out the Maribor UKC. They're restoring some elevator and so on, but compared to the others, compared to the needs, it's almost nothing. Once we had a debate on the 2020 rebalancing, we had warned members of Social Democracy and some others that there was a very serious injustice. There was an answer then, okay, we can't do anything for 2020, but we have 2021 and 2022 – and you let Maribor go again. A third of Slovenia, I live in Prekmurje, if I, if my family is sick, is a tertiary institution for us Maribor, not Ljubljana – and you again cut off a third of Slovenia. With this, honourable Members, you have the opportunity to correct this injustice. I am sorry that there is no Mr Dejan Kaloh among us, the leader of the Moroccan Members, is the first to speak my words and is now not in the Chamber. I hope that, when it comes to voting, he will vote differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme the operation of emergency medical care and health care in emergency situations and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. My friend Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The project of the first intermediaries, which took place in our country, I must say that it is an excellent project, that it saved quite a few lives, that we need to continue this project, and, of course, if we want to continue with such a project, that means that people need to be trained. And if we are to train people, we need to have some appropriate conditions in the training centres of the first mediators. That is why I propose with this amendment, where we would devote €2 million to such an educational centre somehow to be established, built and prepared in the Kočevje municipality. Why is that right there? Because we are somehow pioneers in the field of these first mediators, we also have a highly trained staff for these people who are training them. We are also extremely successful in the rehabilitation of patients, so in fact this would in some ways be a very good solution for both the South East region and, of course, the wider, for the whole country. I therefore propose that we support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Public Administration and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the development of broadband networks and the amendment of the MPs LMŠ, Levica and SAB. There's no desire to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the nine sub-programmes in this budget user. I am putting into the debate first the sub-programme Research programmes and projects, as well as the amendments of the parliamentary groups Levica, LMŠ, SAB and SD and the amendments of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme supporting research infrastructure and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion a sub-programme for supporting activities in the field of sport education and the amendment of SD's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? My friend Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! The amendment discusses the provision of funds for the construction of NUK 2 in Ljubljana. As you know, the story already has a very long beard, which was adopted in 1994 by the first system law, which actually allows the construction of this new building for the National and University Library, which is urgently needed. This library urgently needs both Ljubljana and the whole of Slovenia. A very big step was taken during the previous government when Minister Jernej Pikalo, Minister of Education, actually allowed the conditions for the construction of this library. The new government has, after all, shown that this project is important and necessary and has even been classified among some key projects to come out of the crisis. Currently, a system law has also been published on e-democracy, which ensures the construction of this facility, and yet there is no funding available for this project in the budgets. The main funds will be allocated in 2023, 2024, although 3 million and a half should also be provided as planned in the budget in 2021. We therefore propose this amendment to provide these funds on this item. As it is said, this is one of the most important science projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Enhancing the involvement of children in pre-school education and the amendments of the SNS Group of Members, the amendment of the Left and SD groups of Members, the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the sent groups of Levica, LMŠ, SAB and SD. Anybody want to talk? Colleague Bojana Mursic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Children are our greatest wealth. The amendment we propose is to provide additional funds for co-financing investments in schools and kindergartens owned by the municipality. In the field of pre-school education, new conditions of minimum playing area will enter into force as of 2023, as the Regulation on Normative and Minimum Technical Conditions provides that a minimum of 4 square metres of surface space and not less than 3 square metres should be provided for the child. Many congregations today have problems with this. How to provide additional funds is a very big question for each congregation. So it is so important that the municipalities or the state joins and assists the municipalities, publishes the call, because I don't know how many years of preschool training there have been no investment co-financing. An additional 10 million resources would provide for the implementation of pre-school education to provide new capacity, of course absolutely with an invitation to tender to be applied for by municipalities according to the existing size of individual premises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u46	So the 10 million that the colleague was talking about is actually not enough, given the situation that we have in our country with regard to kindergartens, and so in some ways we find that even in Kočevska, where we have kindergarten with multiple dislocated units, we find that the facilities are old, that they no longer actually get the right permission for these activities, and there is even a risk that an inspection of an object will be closed. As a result, food distribution costs and remote locations — even in the heart of the city — are in great distress in this municipality, which, of course, led to the municipality’s approach to the construction of a new kindergarten project. This is supposed to be a 16-department kindergarten, where appropriate conditions would then be provided and, of course, also reduce operating costs. For this reason, I propose to increase the sub-programme to increase the participation of children in pre-school education by €4 million. However, I think that the total investment relating to this kindergarten is around 6 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of the primary school programmes and the amendment of the SAB Group, the amendment of the members' groups Levica, LMŠ and SD, the amendment of the members' groups SAB, LMŠ and SD and Levica and the amendment of the members' groups Levica, LMŠ, SAB and SD. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u48	Thank you, President. I know that under the third amendment it might be better to discuss my colleague from Maribor, Mr Andrej Reich, but he is running out of time. But this is a joint amendment, and that's why I'm gonna do it. Primary school must be free. Under the previous government – the ministry is specifically headed by Mr Jernej Pikalo – we have started our activities to make the textbooks free. And we're just getting started. Otherwise, the government did not endure to the end, but imagine: free school – our children will probably return to school relatively quickly – and then free school will not allow free entry to a child without a mask. This is a system error, so it is perfectly understandable that in fact schools are allowed to have money for masks, that children get money for free if they need them. This amendment allows and I think that it is also in line with our general thinking that schools must be for children, especially, of course, then for their parents free. This amendment is a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u50	Free masks for pupils in primary and secondary schools are a key condition for students to attend education and education. Remember, it is a matter of compulsory education, it is compulsory to wear masks if the state prescribes them, and it is right if the state prescribes something to do so. In this context, we have also proposed providing funds for free boards for all primary schoolchildren and all secondary schools. If education is provided for this group of children and adolescents remotely, then the state must ensure that these children, these young people of these computers, can have these tablets and will also have free internet. So this is a proposal that strengthens public education, which strengthens solidarity and strengthens the right to education, so I ask that we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u51	Thank you very much. You wanted a word with your friend Ziegler? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues! I share my concern with the Social Democrats when it comes to investing in kindergarten and primary education infrastructure. We will not repeat what we have said many times. When was the last call? Long years ago and thank God we now have some 14 thousand 250 new primary schools forecasted in the following years, that is about 700, 750 new wards and so on. On this subject, even in the past, as an opposition party, we had an extremely good debate on our initiative on the committee responsible, and we were also supported by then Minister Pikalo. It is to my satisfaction that we ourselves have asked the Ministry of Education in writing, what will be the value of the next call for the co-financing of kindergarten and primary education infrastructure. The answer is in the palm of your hand. In 2021 and 2022 a good 21 million were reserved. Ladies and gentlemen, very important information, and on Saturday's Finance Committee, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, I think Dr Gasparič, has said that it is available and that the next call will be four years and will amount to 40 million. For me personally and for us, this is an answer for our Group of Members, which gives some optimism that we actually improve kindergarten and primary education infrastructure. I'm glad we're here somehow on the same side in caring for our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of secondary education programmes and the amendment of the SAB Group of Members and the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Activities of higher education and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Levic, LMŠ, SAB and SD. I'm guessing there's no desire to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of Higher Education Activities and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups and the amendments of the Levica, LMŠ, SAB and SD. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Sport infrastructure and the amendments of the SNS Group of Ambassadors, the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups, and the two amendments of the SD Group of Ambassadors. You have the floor, Comrade Predrag Baković.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Many sports infrastructures are in such a state that a thorough renovation is necessary, of course, the municipalities themselves are not able to cover these costs many times, and it is therefore necessary to pay attention to this too. If we look again at the south-eastern region and find that there is not one sports pool from Ljubljana to the white landscape, except one in the Ribnica, which needs a thorough reconstruction, because it owns it is necessary to do so. That is why this is necessary, I will say, by means of a floating explanation and therefore I propose that the sport infrastructure in the Sub-programme increase the amount by EUR 500 000. In the second amendment, which I have also proposed, I also propose that aid be taken to build a sport park in Ribnica, which will cover such outdoor sports areas, which has proved essential because these sports areas will be important and targeted for both school children, nearby sports clubs and all other individuals who will somehow want to relax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Culture and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, Archive and Library Activities and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups and the two amendments of the SD Group of Members. Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u56	Thank you. I'll discuss the first one. Those who also read the evening newspaper have probably seen, and elsewhere, the call of the Mayor of Maribor to the country to leave Maribor alone again. One of the central investments that Maribor has been planning for several years is the renovation of the city library, now called Centrum Rotovž, which will become the cultural centre of Maribor. It is totally unacceptable that the country here does not go to the second largest Slovenian city, university city, city with a clinical centre, at least here the opposite. That is why we have tabled these amendments together in the opposition and we call on everyone to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! We have tabled an amendment to the Social Democrats to build a reception and information centre for the Partizan Hospital Franjo. I would like to say something else that this amendment for 2021 has led to one printing error in such a way that one zero has to be crossed out. The value of this amendment is essentially €40,000, while the value of the amendment for the budget is €2022 400 000. Now for a brief explanation. In autumn 2007, Slovenia was hit by catastrophic floods with great material damage and unfortunately also by human life. At that time, the Partizan Hospital Franja was affected and almost completely destroyed — I am talking about 2007 — when the government was Janez Janša and provided funds for the start of the rehabilitation of the Partizan Hospital Franjo. This was one of the widest protected sites in Slovenia. It was successfully completed in 2010, as this rehabilitation was then continued by the Borut Pahor government, and in June 2010 we reopened Partizan Hospital Franjo. Let me say that at the time of the coronavirus epidemic this year, because it is an outdoor monument, it was extremely well visited in the summer months and also in the early autumn. There were significantly more visitors than in previous years. At the time of this major disaster, a reception information centre was to be built, but unfortunately there was not enough resources in the budget to complete the project at that time. That is why the rehabilitation of Partizan Hospital Franje, which has a sign of European heritage, which is on the World Heritage List at UNESCO, which is, after all, also a monument of national importance, and that was why this rehabilitation from my professional point of view was somehow half. The missing is this key part, called the reception information center. Therefore, the Social Democrats Group is proposing an amendment to budget 2021 in order to provide all necessary documentation for the start of the construction of this information centre in 2022 in the coming year. Let me say that this year the municipality of Cerkno has purchased an object that could serve this purpose at the entrance to this competition, so that this facility is now owned by the Municipality of Cerkno, but they have already ordered an idea plan for this facility in 2007 and 2008 so I could not agree with the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia why it opposes this amendment. Thus says the Government, "the construction of the reception and information centre of the Partizan Hospital Franja needs to be appraised financially in real terms, stressing that they need to give guidelines and conditions for the relevant memorial and nature protection services and the competent museum service in order to prepare the project in advance," and they say, "the project currently does not have the necessary documentation to launch the investment. For this reason, we cannot support the amendment.” This, of course, is not true, since the starting points of the profession, how to deal with this problem or this construction, were already given at the time, and this amendment would provide the means to produce all the necessary projects and to obtain a building permit and could start with construction in 2022, for which we have also proposed an amendment. However, since I have also tabled the same amendment for 2020 as a budget rebalance, which was also rejected, the Government has written in explanation that they oppose this amendment, because there are sufficient resources within the budget of the Ministry of Culture to implement this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I believe that there is no one in this assembly, even when it's full, there is no one who doesn't know what Sheshkov's home is, where he is and what was happening in it. First of all, it was called the Sokol House, and yet I will repeat that between 1 and 3 October 1943 there was a meeting of the Assembly of Emissaries of the Slovenian People, which was actually the first directly elected representative of the occupied nation in Europe during World War II. The hall is kind of the original space of Slovenian parliamentaryism, but the premises are just a typical functionalist building. He's in extremely poor condition. By decree published in 2001, Šeškov dům was declared a monument of State importance and is therefore an important monument of Slovenian statehood and belongs to the national cultural heritage. It is therefore right that the State devotes itself to this, because so far the majority of the contribution to this facility has been made by the municipality, so it is right that the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities will increase by a million, a good million euros, because thorough reconstruction, reconstruction, adaptation is needed if you want, such halls, firehouses and stagework with all the necessary stage technology. I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u62	Thank you. Both what my colleagues have said before me, Šeškov's home is a monument to our statehood, which needs to be properly regulated, and Franja's hospital is also a monument and the fight and development of medicine and civilization after all. I'm gonna abuse it a little bit. I ran out – and I thank Dejan Židan for explaining the Maribor amendment – I ran out because he started burning my cell phone because my parents call me that someone intended that children should have two new cameras when they write written from home. You know, if in this government and coalition you have a client whose former minister prescribed a master's degree, if you have a leading party in this government and coalition that seems to think that Mr. Even the mayor who wrote the cologne instead of him was someone else, that doesn't mean that all our children are like that. At the same time, it is forgotten that many children are ashamed to have the only camera on for not seeing what kind of poverty they live in. I'm supposed to be dealing with this, not with the aortas that some of us obviously have, I can't say otherwise, like assholes, they remember and they weigh. You can give me a reminder, but I had to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u63	No, I'm just calling on you to stick to the darkness. We are at the budget, with the budget user of the Ministry of Culture, tabled amendments, so I suggest we stick to this topic. Comrade Bevk, did you still want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Art Programmes and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus groups. My friend just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. This is a transfer of funds within the Ministry of Culture. It is said that some programmes of the Ministry of Culture will be reduced by EUR 3 million for the establishment of a new institution, namely the Museum of Slovenian Independence. To avoid misinterpretation, I am not against dealing with this topic, or even that the Group of Social Democrats could either declare us against the independence of Slovenia. After all, I am also a veteran of war for Slovenia. But this amendment has some big flaw. The government is fighting bureaucracy, fighting for demobilization, and we are now establishing a new institution, a new museum that will have to have a director, secretary, accountant, all that, janitor and so on and so on. So, a new institution. In Slovenia we have several ten national, provincial, municipal, local and specialized museums. If it were possible, I'd reclassify this amendment. Instead of the establishment of the Slovenian Museum of Independence of EUR 3 million, I would write down the exhibition on Slovenian independence, not the establishment of a new institution, the 70th, 80th museum in Slovenia, but a broad-based exhibition project that would show all the dimensions of Slovenian independence and the creation of the Slovenian state. Here I would combine the existing museum institutions, which have excellent staff, namely the home museum for this area, this is the Museum of Recent History, the Park of Military History in Pivka and, you may not know at all, the Military Museum of the Slovenian Army, which houses in the Maribor Kadetnica. These are the three institutions that have already been set up to deal with recent Slovenian history and could set up a wide-ranging monumental exhibition on Slovenian independence, not that we are establishing a new institution that needs time to use the money it needs – all of which we already have. Let's reclassify this as an exhibition, not a new bureaucrat institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Ducky. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u66	Very briefly. I absolutely agree with what colleague Bevk said, after all, he is also an expert on this. One younger player said that we must also be independent of the invaders, let the museums be free of the conquest. But if anyone wants to build a monument for himself, let him raise the money and set up a private museum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Moving to budget [[…]] Comrade Reich, did you still want it? Please raise your hands in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u68	I, too, am referring to my colleague Bevek, and I very much agree with him. In Maribor we have a large building, which would probably also be suitable for some in-depth exhibition on the area of Slovenian independence. However, I would like to point out that when we have real problems with the Maribor library in Maribor, we cannot commit, cannot or must not allocate funds to a museum that we do not know where it is, which is not known what space it has, which has unknown material in an unknown place, at an unknown time – if you allow me to paraphrase. This is a political project that beats the needs of the people of our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u70	Thank you very much. And I have to say, it seems to me that the amendment is in place. Slovenia needs a museum for independence, because in fact we have very little learning material in books, there is very little about independence in schools, and I think it is right that when there are cultural days when schools from the countryside come to Ljubljana, they can also see it as part of the programme in addition to the National Assembly. I am pleased that the National Assembly has made its doors available for students, children to come and see, and I think it is right that we should also have the Museum of Slovenian Independence. I'm very supportive of that. Given all the debates, that's all I have to say. We have the Guardian of Human Rights. Yes, we do. And we have a guardian for equal opportunities. Yes, we do. So we have several different institutions. Each covers its own, and I think that this purpose also provides the means to admit and be proud to have the Museum of Slovenia's independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Comrade Montenegro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u72	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I will be happy to support this amendment because I think we need it after 30 years in Slovenia. Young people need to know what happened, and I think in the thirties, this year, when we celebrate that we must be aware of our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u73	Thank you very much. My friend Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Above all, I think it is high time that this government began to deal with other things, not all the time watching thirty years ago, but the independence up and down. As has already been said, the museum that deals with this period, or keeps things from this period, we already have. It's the Museum of Recent History. So it is absolutely unnecessary to establish new museums, new public institutions and so on. But it is true that every autocratic authority wants to build its own monument and apparently John Janša sees exactly this in this museum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Supporting activities of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levice and SAB parliamentary groups. I see there's no desire to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. Voting on the amendments and the specific part of the amendment [[…]] Comrade Duck, I've closed the debate. I watched, no one raised their hand, and please don't mess around. Now, for the last time, I will give you my word and appeal to all of you that when I call for a debate to raise your hands, not to raise them after I have finished the debate. Comrade Duck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. It's a long way from making fun of SAZU. Perhaps I would say, given one last letter from this venerable group of Slovenian minds, this cutting item would probably be even higher and larger. Within the SAZU there is also a Scientific Research Centre with many serious institutes. Some Academy of Science and Art, if it wants to work seriously, of course it also needs money for some support activities. This deletion in budget 2021 shows something we've been looking at for eight months. This government and this coalition obviously cannot bear a critical opinion, obviously not for the development of science and art, and in some way also wants to culpise the SAZU. This is why, of course, we wrote in the KUL coalition this amendment, which preserves funds for supporting activities of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. I sincerely hope that I will never see the government again, nor the coalition, nor the budgets that will cut and cut into such things, but at the same time, they are setting up museum monuments and I don't know what else. Give three million more in the SAZU, and let them critically revalue where our independence took us in 30 years. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. [[No, no, ……]] The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the draft amending budget will be held on Wednesday, 18th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 11. 2020, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will take place in the framework of the vote today, in line with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 2022 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a debate on the supplementary draft budget. We will discuss individual parts of the supplementary draft budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, the General Part, the Special Part and the Development Programme Plan shall be considered. We are moving on to the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Anybody want to talk? My friend Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In this introductory part, I would hand over some of the general positions of the Left Group and then touch on some of the amendments that we have also prepared as a correction of the most pressing points of this budget. We have also witnessed or heard many times during the general debate yesterday on the budget for 2021, mainly by the government and the coalition members, that we are talking about the best budget, that we are talking about a budget that has the best starting points, which is the most social, most developmental, most equitable, and we could draw some truth from here. The fact is that it is the largest budget, that it is a record budget. I find it difficult to confirm that it is the best, but it is certainly the largest in absolute numbers, and also, in absolute numbers, the funds for certain resources for certain programmes are indeed increasing. But the first thing I have to warn you about is this. The fact that this budget is larger both for 2021 and for 2022 in absolute numbers is not due to the current government, but it is due to the number of other factors from the functioning of previous governments to GDP, other policies and so on. This starting point for the government to take credit for creating the largest budget is attracted to hair. However, it is the largest budget, the largest budget, the widest budget, in particular the highest responsibility for the responsibility of these funds and for the record budget to be translated into a record benefit for the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia – the exam on which, and the deadline for the heart – this is an easy task for us, the budget criticisms – the government has laid down the entire line. This is particularly evident in the substantive distribution of these funds and the way in which not only is the percentage or figures of how funds are distributed in the budget documents, but the way in which the funds are distributed and the attention that the Government devotes to certain areas in the budget documents. For example, the government of Janez Janša is planning a huge increase in military funding for the armed forces. This year, for 2020, 516 million euros will be spent on arms. In 2021, 636 million. So 120 million more than this year. Then the next year or 2022 will further increase the arms budget to EUR 688 million. So, another 52. The budget for the military will increase by one third in two years from this to 2022. These same statistics do not have key social, health and educational areas. And most painfully, now I'm going back to my starting point on how the funds are going to split up is this. On the one hand, the Ministry of Defence has an accurate and very detailed strategy, what will be spent, how much will be spent on exactly what. If I do a little paraphrasing, they know with every bullet, every nine-millimeter bullet they buy, exactly when they buy it, where they buy it, and how much it costs. For the next six years, they know exactly which armory they're going to buy and spend, and I don't overdo it, hundreds of millions of our money. For example, the budget only provides €54 million for ammunition for the next five years. I'm talking about nine-millimeter bullets here, and a lot of other things. And 220 million euros for armored 8x8. But on the other hand, let us see how the government of Janez Janša works when it is necessary to define a strategy for spending public funds for, say, the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Labour. At these two addresses, however, the Government does not even know, for the first time, how much it would be necessary to spend, how much, how much, or in accordance with some precise and clear-cut strategy. They do not know, say, at the Ministry of Health, how much money will be available during this period for investments in health infrastructure, how much to build homes of older people and so on. In the Levica Group, we have asked a question a few years ago where we asked the Government how much resources will be spent between 2021 and 2026, i.e. in this period when the Government has a clearly developed strategy for the use of the 780 million for weapons, how much will the Government spend on homes for the elderly, how much staff will be needed there. At the Ministry of Labour, we were told that they didn't really know. On the one hand, they know about each bullet, how much it will cost, where it will be bought, how much they know about each armor, all the clearly designed strategies, and how many homes for the elderly don't even know how to approach it. The only measure to which, according to their own words, they are swindling is that they will leave this strategy to the market, the award of concessions and so on. In short, the responsibility to resolve the crisis has once again come to light where it is most hot, in the most vulnerable people who are in nursing homes in this case. The government, for example, on the budget line of the Ministry of Labour for long-term care, will now refer to one of our amendments, which responds or at least mitigates this crisis of lack of attention and resources from the Government. On the budget line of the Ministry of Labour for long-term care, for which it is estimated, by the way, we need these governments at an annual level of 300 million, set aside 23 million for 2021. Well, the government itself says we need 300 million dollars for long-term care, but it gets 23. In the same year, it is said in 2021 that 636 million were donated for armoured or armed forces. So, 636 million for weapons and 23 million for long-term supply. Priority! Then for 2022, I'm looking for weapons 688, that is, even more than in 2021, and for long-term supply even less than in 2021. This weight is said to be in the wrong direction again — 22 million. Therefore, with one modest amendment, let's say, in Levica, we are trying to correct this imbalance and transfer it to the title of long-term supply, at least EUR 50 million. EUR 50 million, which – hand to heart – will not fix the whole problem of long-term care, will not build all the homes needed for the elderly, will not employ all the necessary staff in nursing homes, but will perhaps be the first, the first, the first, to step in to the problem of long-term care, the problem of the manoeuvre, the infrastructure manoeuvre in the area of nursing homes, but will only be eliminated. It is urgent to say that homes for the elderly in Slovenia, we have been talking about them long and wide in the National Assembly, at least in this mandate. Things aren't getting any better there. Now we are really in crisis times and we see the problem most neatly, but under normal conditions I would need some 60 new homes for the elderly to accommodate all 12 thousand people who are waiting there, plus, according to Community data of social institutions, we would need to hire as many people in nursing homes as there are now, even up to 50% of the manco is in professional staff, the staff between caregivers and medical staff in nursing homes – there is a shortage. This is one, in my personal opinion, the most pressing thing, the most pressing problem which the Government has persistently ignored at a time when the most attention should be paid to more vulnerable groups, the government is looking away and flirting with arms manufacturers, God knows where – we hear something in Hungary, something in America and so on. At a time when all resources, political, human and financial, should be directed towards protecting the most vulnerable, we still have 40,000 children living below the poverty threshold who don't know how to get through this schooling at home because they don't have their computers and cameras and we throw them into some situation they can't. We have homes for the elderly, there are two groups of people who do not know how they will survive this crisis; one is the elderly; the other is the employees. We have a record number of infected people today or in the last 24 hours, 30 percent of all tested, we have a record number of deaths with covid-19-45 people, while in the Cabinet of the President of the Government, the Secretary of the Tarno on some post-war killings, Jan Mahnic deals with his racist tweets, Janez Janša tarna European Union on a deep state, and the budget gives the jackpot to arms. So much for the government's priorities. In the Left Group with our amendments, as we say, we are correcting those most pressing problems or addressing the most open wounds, and we hope and hope that at least this time there will be so much wisdom on the part of most Members to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u80	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. And I'm just gonna tie myself to my buddy Primož. I know you've been using this CAP a lot lately. It's called a healthy farm. There is one big problem because I know that Mr Janez Janša is a soul advocate and also by profession, and I know he is interested in a lot of these military strategies. Given what is happening to us in the country right now, I must admit that its strategy is not only wrong but harmful. I'll make a military case like this. Let's say I'm having a plane attack, then I'm not going to defend myself with some infantry, but we're going to defend ourselves with some missile systems, anti-aircraft systems, and here's the real problem. The heart of all the problems we face — yes, yes. Simply people, I am sorry, and I have said before that I hope that this coronavirus will be over as soon as possible to get rid of this problem 2020. Unfortunately, people are dying in hospitals, in DSOs, and now buying weapons for 780 million is easy, not only is it wrong in this case. They also take it as if it's not by common sense, because a healthy farmer's mind means the following: a farmer goes into a field and finds that something doesn't grow, some thing rots, or is buried, or whatever, but not to bring in a hood or some missile unit or a kalashnikov to give better birth to an apple. Very caric, but very plastic. In this case, when we are solving this most terrible coronaryism or even the biggest crisis in fact after World War II, it is simply not the time to buy weapons, but the time, as Comrade Primož explained earlier, is to invest more in health, to invest more in DSOs, to invest more in social transfers and these things. We are facing the biggest economic, economic and social crisis we will face. What I like or must repeat is not what I would like, the greatest losers or I will say the most harm will be experienced by young people — children, adolescents — and the oldest or older. I also said that our middle generation must give up on many people in this case and we will only give up for the good of children, adolescents and for the good of these elderly or elderly people. But when people look at it, and when we Members look at it that it is wrong or that it is misdirected in various ways, then we cannot and must not be silent, because we are representatives of the people here. Those who have regular and serious contact with the people also listen well and attentively to what they tell us or what they require of us. They're not asking us right now to buy weapons for 780 million, but they're asking us to save lives right now, to save the economy, to save social services, to save health care. The weapons at the moment, I tell you – I come from the end when someone will surely say on the right that they are certainly more for weapons – they are not! In eastern Slovenia, people are very desperate because a social bomb is really being made. They are simply appalled that at this time, I will say, literally unnecessary things spend money instead of investing, as has already been said, in health care and DSOs and other matters. As far as the budget is concerned. Now that I also take the budget, it's always said that it's developed, that it's the most social, that it can be done. Yeah, maybe now it looks like it's going to be 2022 in this case, but then it's going to be always less or things are going away from science, from health care, then all over the place these items are going to go down. I'm going to say good blinding maneuvers for now, but for the future or for the future, it's very bad. Unfortunately, we must all turn again to Mr President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, who with these – let us leave his tweets – but also to the letters that are already going to Europe. That's basically how we close the door. I don't know who's going to open them for us or how we're going to be able to open them. Do you have any idea what might happen to us? That Europe will actually hit the table – and I think it will – and that we will not be able to use the money that has already been said to have it or that we will be able to use it. What the government will do then, I'd like that answer. What will you do then, or government coalition? People will not be left without jobs, without basic income, without pensions, without social protection, without healthcare. It's gonna be chaos! It's already chaos, but then it'll be true, I don't know how to say it – the apocalypse. The apocalypse is new. I don't know why it's easy when we're talking about this government coalition, but I know; look, time is really what it is, unpredictable, it's hard, we all understand that it's hard, but the hard part is [[…]] For example, we deal with things that are not at all part of this solution or the solution to these problems that we are experiencing. The simple budget is not right. The budget for 2022, as well as for 2021, is actually against people and not for people. However you start convincing us now, but here I am there, I will say, the devil is in small detail and here is the same in these two budgets. When a person analyzes a little more thoroughly, he realizes that something will be moved somewhere, and in the end, 2022 will be much less on certain items, where there should be more or should be more now. When it comes to the guardian of the budget, or even in this case to the Government or the Minister of Finance, see when people are watching you, for example, what everything is currently investing in, as well as when they are watching these anti-korona packages that are being adopted, what is being done during these anti-korona measures. When they observe the repression that is taking place in the streets as they observe the case, I now have such a very ideal example or a very direct example of public transport. Now that public transport should be open or these lines can be opened so that health workers can, in order for a factory worker to come to work as soon as possible from point A to point B – what do you do? Close public transport, which is nowhere in Europe at the moment. Even in the Czech Republic, watch out, in the Czech Republic, with which we can unfortunately compare in some numbers, public transport works. However, I do not demand that public transport be fully operational, but that they still have the opportunity to come from point A to point B to work and that they can then be taken back home. That's the point of what's most important. However, in hospitals or in health - care homes, workers have to jerk off in a car together in some vans, and they are even more vulnerable to themselves, workmates, workmates, and their families. One case. This is also the case with respect to DSOs or the care of elderly or elderly persons. One part of the DSOs, which are unfortunately the focus and focal point of the problem, is in fact not the right solutions. Prior to that, Primož had explained, and the percentages of the sick, unfortunately dead, were increasing again. Behind these numbers are the terrible fates of families, grandparents, grandparents, brothers, sisters, whatever. I think that this government will also have to reflect a little bit on itself in this situation. It is not a problem if a person accepts an order, either a proposal, or a rule, or a law, but it is found that he does not act or that he does not act in the right direction. I think someone will then show greatness to admit that some thing has gone wrong, but in your case, unfortunately the government coalition, simply, for a lot of things you haven't done or accepted anything, so this second wave happened to us and it happens to us in the way that we do. And I don't want to be smart now and throw rocks at others because I don't have the right. But I have the right, and I also have the duty, on behalf of the people I represent, to tell them what they think. I have the right! That's why I'm here, that request to tell you. I'm never the kind of guy to explain to you just me, me, me. I'll tell you what people are saying, because I also represent them, and they're knocking on my sleeve, and they're actually teasing me on the ground, and I'm happy to be. Because even everything can't be right, and that's the heart of this government coalition's problem. On the outside you act as if you have everything under control, but in fact there is one great chaos. This goes on and on, just spreads like a tsunami travels and then those waves do what they do. As far as distance learning is concerned, I'd say conference school because it's not a distance school, it's conference advertising and stuff. The fact is that if we are to have a better future in particular, we must now, and at this moment, look for a better and better future for our children. I don't know how much you're aware of the things they tell you or who they're also sending you, anyway, I don't know. In fact, children are mostly terrified. And I don't think it's just a problem that they're scared, but they don't see the real way of saying it – the lights at the end of the tunnel. [[…]] Because, in fact, kids have to go to school, they have to hang out anyway. With all the action, it's understandable. So they must wear masks, they must disinfect their hands — clearly, logically! But this remote school is the most missed thing that could have happened, in my opinion, in this case. It's about taking action. I don't know, I don't have my kids, so there's not gonna be anyone who thinks I'm saying something again. Yeah, I know you do. I hope they're healthy and they're great, but I want you all to be healthy. But still, people tell me firsthand. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] I'll finish with these amendments slowly. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] I respect it because I know being a parent is the most important and responsible job a person has in life, and I must admit that I also wish that I was a parent, otherwise it doesn't show right now that I could be, but I hope that maybe at some point. But, as we have already said, more should be looked at our children, at our future, because in fact these children will actually take care of us once, and now we are responsible to take care of them. This is how this intergenerational dialogue or cooperation works. With this, the generation is responsible for the next generation back or forward. And what's interesting and I also have to admit, given what kind of conversations I've had, it's amazing, children think very adultly, sometimes even more adult than we do. In fact, one thinks and wonders, uh, where we got him, and specifically. Children are very well aware of all these problems that are happening around them, because, in fact, children, as far as I know how much I know, are also very well aware of the moment of time or have a lot more emotional intelligence developed than we adults do, and they will often point us out that we are the heart of the problem or that we need to imagine, reflect ourselves, talk and listen to them more. And the kids want to go back to school. They really want to. That's understandable. Like I said, even with regard to care. I know a lot of ladies who are older, but they're not in DSO. In fact, they are ladies who live alone in their homes, but they are helped to the best of their ability, but also to the best of their ability, not only by the best of their ability, but also by the measures prescribed. So it's a strict physical distance to keep things going the way they have to run with regard to health regulations. I'm just gonna say hello to Julka right now, and I'm gonna say hi to Rezika and make sure they're nice. And these people actually feel lost. Yeah, that's how it is. They also told me a lot of things. In fact, they want only one person to talk to them many times because they are also tired of all of this, frightened. They want to go to the store, we help them as much as we can, we go to the store for them, if we can. But even though they are independent ladies of old, they also want to go into such things alone. But now that we're back on public transport, they can't actually go. If they do not have close trade, in fact they have only the option – and this is luck, it is our happiness, the Slovenian happiness that we are a very solidarity nation and we know and also look constantly at neighbors, at neighbors. And this hat down, and I think we're Slovenians, I would hope to say, among the first three in the world, because I've seen a lot of the world before, and the Slovenians are a solidarity nation. In fact, this solidarity actually saves this government coalition – do you understand? The government coalition does not save these citizens and citizens at the moment. If it wasn't for this solidarity, oh, my God, what would it be? Oh, my God, I can only say that. As I have already said, I will not tell you things in mind, I am talking to you directly from the street, from the village, from the house, from the block, anywhere, from the shop, because it doesn't matter because I'm not the type of person to talk, because I don't want to talk about it either. Because if I don't know things well, I let myself consult, and I let people advise me, and they make me laugh, and they warn me that I'm wrong. Not to think about it, I've admitted my mistakes many times in my life, and that's why I'm responsible. And that you also need to realize that it is not a problem to make mistakes, the problem is that things are not done or corrected at all. But it's also the greatness of a person to stand in front of cameras or in front of people, because it doesn't matter, and apologize, look, the thing is, we screwed up, it wasn't right, we'll try better. People would like to hear this, not just, “it’s today ” — the numbers are really terrible, and I must admit that every morning we are all afraid to look at the phone numbers that will be, seriously, panicking. [[…]] We want them to be smaller as soon as possible, so that these measures can be completed as quickly as possible. But apparently, the measures aren't right, and that's why they're numbers like that. This then all relates to the budget, even for 2022, and also for 2021, this is all as a consequence. Unfortunately, the focus of the budget 2021, 2022 is just a coronation of covid-19. We're gonna have to deal with it, and we're gonna have to deal with it for a couple of years. And hopefully, I'll tell you the truth, we hope you'll also stop because I think sometimes I feel like you're a fast train and you're wooding at some supersonic speed in the wrong direction. I'm going to say, now is the last moment that things turn around, that also things, I'm going to say at home, they stop, it comes back to thinking again, it makes a really smart strategy that will have a really positive impact on everyone: health, the economy, social. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I can say that both the budget for 2021 and the budget for 2022, which we now have under consideration, is prepared in the direction of planning the use of funds also from the REACT-EU programme. These are resources aimed at strengthening the resilience of health systems, maintaining and creating jobs, especially for young people, supporting the poorest in society, supporting small, medium and large enterprises, laying the foundations for future digital and green and sustainable socio-economic development. [[…]] It is said that the programme follows and the budget follows this programme. We can talk about how it can be reduced on individual items, but I do have a realisation review, like probably all of you, in 2020 and the budget 2021 and the budget for 2022. I did not see the funds go down, but it seems to me that, according to each item, the funds go up very responsibly and very carefully. Of course, there are more and more questions about how we will lead the health policy, the youth policy, the policy of the elderly, the pensioners' policy further in 2022, but given the numbers and budget, I can say that the budget is set so that these policies will be strengthened to the greatest extent possible. If I just look at the Ministry of Health, the largest proportion of resources will be allocated to healthcare, EUR 217 million, 29 million more than the estimated implementation in 2020. For secondary and tertiary health care, €60 million will be allocated and the total amount will also be devoted to investments and investments at secondary and tertiary levels. This will be 31 million more than realisation in 2020. Also to finance the covid epidemic, €69 million is allocated in 2022. Of course, we can say what is wrong, but I believe, and I also stand for this, that things in Slovenia will also start to calm down in this area. It is important to mention, however, that 5 new homes will be built for the elderly; that 35 million have already been allocated to the DSO in the past, it is said to be homes for older citizens to be able to reward their employees who are burning up in the present time, and in this place I thank all the employees in their homes for the older citizens who are responsible and who care for their residents. Maybe, I believe, in a lot of cases, it's very difficult, but they're saving things and they're available to help these people. Young. Funds are also provided for young people, including for education. Also for the development and technology of more resources in each year, which I think is very important in view of the past days when we had our Slovenian scientists participating in the Follower programme on the Education Committee. I can say that the budget is also promising in the field of ecology, which is of interest to all of us. The environment is also a priority – a healthy, clean environment. Even in this area, I can say, for my own area, which I am covering, this is the area of agriculture, higher funds are allocated. The target is 45.8 million for forestry, 1.5 million more than in the 2021 budget. So, even for the environment, for our green, pure nature, funds are also increasing. I could also list, my colleagues, what can be done, what can be done, and how the funds are being redistributed, but these are always the same debates at the budget. However, once again, I stress that this budget is designed to help strengthen the resilience of health systems, to create new jobs, especially for young people, and of course also to support the poorest in our society, small, medium-sized enterprises, and I stress once again, also for the green component and for our nature. I'll support the budget myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The vote on the General Part of the Complementary Draft Budget will be held today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 16 November 2020. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the debate on the amendments tabled, to the three sub-programmes of this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme first of all support for technological development projects and the amendment of the SD and SAB parliamentary groups. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, colleague Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u84	President, please explain one thing to me. We are all still ready to debate, and you have gone straight to the debate on the amendments. This has now been done in an express and wonderful manner, unless we have overlooked something in the Rules of Procedure or in parliamentary practice? What's going on, will you explain to us from the point of view of the process? [[advertising from the hall]] No, I'm not dealing with the content at all, Marko, quit because it has nothing to do with it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u85	What part are you talking about, buddy? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u86	I'm talking about general work.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u87	About the general work, I closed the debate because no one signed up for the debate. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u88	No, of course not. We've all responded. Please. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u89	Nobody did. Nobody did. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry. I looked, no one was there, and please. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Don't fool around. Nobody's checked in. [[…]] Everyone had the opportunity to raise their hands [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u90	Come on, President, I see he's fighting you. [[…]] It's a success! Well, great, fine! We'll remember, it's another kind of unique. Please, once a year or for four years, sorry, for two years, we have a two-year budget and at this point you simply want to conclude the debate!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u91	No, colleague Möderndorfer, you're extremely incorrect, there you've been talking to [[…]] [[They're both talking at the same time.]] You may have missed a part of the session, but if you'd listened, you'd be able to look at the video, and I asked if anyone wanted to discuss it, and no one answered. Nobody. And that's what the opposition and coalition colleagues attach to. My friend Jani Prednik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u92	President, thank you for your word. My colleague Jani, here I must take to the defense of the President of the National Assembly. He asked correctly if anyone wanted to discuss it, and we were all silent. So that's what the president of the National Assembly is right.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Support for Technology Development Projects and the amendment of the SD and SAB Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Creation of jobs and the amendment of SD and SAB sent groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Effective marketing and promotion of Slovenia and the amendment of the LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the development of the highway and road network and the three amendments of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Comrade Predrag Bakovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Road connections in some congregations are in very poor condition. I must say that even in our Kočevje municipality there is an urgent need for new investments, which will be designed to build new roads and upgrade the old ones. We have one case where the road, which is the second order, is the state road where the water was running and, I have to say, it was funny that then only one half of the road was covered. That is why I have proposed an amendment here to somehow overlay the other half, at the Stalceri–Kočevska River section, and I propose that the sub-programme be increased by EUR 250,000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u95	Thank you very much. He also wanted to discuss Mr. Only Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! On my proposal, the SD Group tabled an amendment to increase funds for new investments or modernisation of state road infrastructure, namely in the area of the fourth development axis on the Jelen–Lower Idrija route. In the area of the fourth development axis, a number of projects have been carried out in recent years, mostly on the Želen–Most in Soča, mainly in recent years with European funds, as the state budget has been scarce in the last decade for investments in the state road infrastructure area. So this is where it was built mainly thanks to European funds. Then we are pleased that the construction of the gallery in the Zale ravine between Idrija and Godovic was completed, although at first the Infrastructure Directorate simply wanted to mine the slope over this only road connection which connects Idrija with the capital and the highway cross, but we warned them on the basis of the profession and geological research that the construction of the gallery is necessary here. In this year, I don't know now, I haven't driven down the valley between Trebia and the Coves in a few weeks, but I don't know if the construction of the road in this area has already begun – that's what was promised. So, there's a few investments. Some investments, or some sections on the fourth development axis, are completely ignored. Finally, after many years not to say decades, the congregation of Cerkno and Gorenje decided to unite you to connect the Church with Gorenje village, because before each congregation had defended its variant, now the congregation has united and it would be right to move here from a dead point. The route between Cerkne and Gorenje village has been in place since 2006 and 2007, it has been said for more than 13 years, and nothing happens here, so I plead that the Ministry of Infrastructure will decide here and take a step forward with the Directorate. At this point, the worst part of the road on the fourth development axis is between Želen and Lower Idrija and my 2 million-euro amendment would of course have started construction in 2022, if the Government or the National Assembly had previously adopted the amendment by 2021. For I will read the explanation why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes this amendment for 2022 for the rehabilitation or reconstruction of the road between Želenjan and Lower Idrija. They say: "For the reconstruction of the road between Želen and Lower Idrija, it is necessary to first draw up the investment documentation and the project into the budget and to obtain the necessary land before building." I agree with that, of course, but since the beginning of this mandate, various ministers – but now we have two – say that investment documentation must be made. Why are they delaying the production of investment documents? This can be done and prepared by the Slovenian Directorate from existing resources, as they have a special fund for the production of investment documents for various projects. And that way we can listen until the end of the term. In the course of this debate, I call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent ministry and then the Directorate that carries out this task to draw up the investment documentation and the project as soon as possible into the development programme plan; a real project for the reconstruction or modernisation of the road between Želen and Lower Idrija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2431 The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and the debate on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads and the amendments of the LMŠ Group and the amendments of the SAB, LMŠ and SD groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2550 of the Ministry of Environment and Space and the debate on the amendments tabled to the four sub-programmes in this budget user. I am putting forward the sub-programme on adaptation to climate change and the amendment of SD and SAB parliamentary groups. Mr. Duck wants to discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u98	Thank you. As in 2021, it is a matter of the fact that the Ministry of Finance is not a body covering climate change and adaptation, but it is a sector ministry and, as it is, without this amendment, we are essentially in breach of Article 114 of the Constitution on autonomy and the structure of the work of the Government and, of course, we are moving this item only to the Ministry dealing with environment and space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Unless I close the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Water Management and the two amendments of the SD Group of Members. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme on the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of natural values and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u100	Thank you very much. You are probably all aware that the preservation of the Rozda Krokar, which is located on the southern part of Kočevska, is somehow news, which is extremely important that this jungle is included in the Unesc list of natural heritage. Of course, this does not only mean that we have put ourselves on the map of Unesc's lists, but it means that it is also necessary to manage, protect, protect, because this is happening, especially in the last year, that this threshold is being burdened in a way that people are looking at it. It is therefore right that this heritage, which is extremely important because it is the noise composition of the forest, which, in the post-cold age, has again spread from these areas to other parts of Europe, and this is extremely important for the whole country. For this reason, all necessary infrastructure must be regulated at the entry points in order to maintain this threshold and protected in a manner that is necessary. I propose that the sub-programme for biodiversity conservation and the protection of natural values be increased by 3.5 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme on waste management and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Just Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. As with the budget for 2021, the SD Group tabled on my proposal an amendment to remedy mining damage and the degraded environment due to half a thousand years of mining in Idrija, which left irreparable environmental consequences. I've explained this a little bit before. Let me say that since Cerara's government, it has been said that it is now a third government, machete-like attitude towards this issue. In 2017, the state eliminated the company Rudnik of mercury in closing, washing its hands Pilately, because Minister Restorationšek, whose director covered this area, said to my question of the question that, when this company was liquidated, we no longer had an address to pay the mining damage. We really don't have the mercury mine Idri in closing, d.o.o., but we still have the mine that's under the city. Part of the mine is watered. The unfavorable part must be maintained, water should be pumped outside the mine area or the mine itself and maintained. In fact, under the city of Idria, there are well - watered or un watered trenches of 700 kilometers. That's not a small infrastructure. Above this 700 km of trenches is the city of Idria with more than 6,000 inhabitants. And now say that there is no address when there is no company anymore, but if we still have all this burden under the city itself. This is how I plead here in the debate on this amendment, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia finally decides and that it begins or continues to rehabilitate this degraded area, as the Law on Environmental Protection speaks of the rehabilitation of degraded areas in Slovenia. We do not have only the Soča Valley, we do not have only the Celje Valley, we do not only have degraded areas in Koroška, the area of the former autumn ironworks is also one of them, coal areas. All these degraded environments need to be adequately remedied so that they can live and develop with local communities. I therefore propose that the National Assembly adopt an amendment to remedy the mining damage and degraded environment in the city of Idria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a budget user of 2555, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water and the debate on the amendment tabled with the budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Water Management and the amendment of the LMŠ Group. There's no desire to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2611, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and the debate on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting forward a sub-programme for supporting activities in the field of work, family and social affairs, as well as the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Because there is no desire to discuss it, I conclude it. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Long-term care and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Mr. Siter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again! I have already spoken in part about this amendment in my general debate. However, it is a simple solution to the recalibration of the priorities offered by this budget. At a time when we have a record number of people who are sick or infected, a record number of people who have died, the numbers are the redest in nursing homes, the most obvious is the failure to ignore all policies in this area so far. On the other hand, we have a record budget and a record responsibility to settle this matter. There are 12 thousand 300 and a few people waiting in nursing homes or in nursing homes for the day. There are 50 per cent missing in nursing homes, according to Community data of social institutions, 50 per cent of nursing staff. The nursing staff working there is exhausted, underpaid for their hard work and, as it is said, too few. The challenge presented by this budget is as follows. Not only does the government not use it to allocate sufficient resources to long-term care and home building, it in fact devotes too little energy, reflection and work towards developing a strategy on how to even solve the problem of lack of beds and staff. So far, this problem has been solved by granting concessions, by handing over the problem to the market, but it has also proved to be ineffective. Finally, the Court of Auditors’ audit noted this. While the Government on the one hand knows exactly how, why, and how to use the means for additional weapons, on the other hand, there is no strategy to take care of long-term care, how, how, and how enough to invest in building homes for the elderly. The figures are important, and each of these years, which we deal with today with budget documents, 2021 and 2022, uses around 600 million for weapons, and only 20, one year and 22 million for long-term supply, which is not enough, of course. The government itself estimates that a 300-million-dollar injection at the start would be urgently needed for this area. So 12,000 beds are missing, half the staff is missing, and instead of the government following its findings, the 300 million-million-dollar finding of the need for long-term care for this area in 2022, which we are currently dealing with, is committed to 22 million. What is not enough is not enough to build, is not enough to strengthen existing human resources needs. Therefore, with this amendment, we propose a patch, as we say, for this open wound. I know that 50 million won't completely solve this problem, but it will be a good start. So, an additional 50 million to build a home for the elderly, to financially strengthen existing homes for the elderly and the staff strengthening of the home, I think that the hygiene minimum is the responsibility of Slovenian policy, which, once again, on finding that this area uses 300 million and that it has a record budget in one way or another, I think this should not be a problem. Therefore, with this amendment we say: less for weapons, more for long-term care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2711 – Ministry of Health and discussion on the amendments tabled to the three sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Investments at the primary level and the amendment of the leftist Group and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. Mr. Ducky, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u106	Yes, thank you for your word. I'm not going to use a massage, unlike some. It is still a problem of solving the primary level network on our side, Trojan, which is in an unenviable state, and this is basically the content of the amendment proposed by the KUL Coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Reich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I'm joining a colleague of Dr. Duck's. This is an amendment that provides the necessary funds to the Maribor health care centre. Maribor is, as you know, the second largest Slovenian city, but according to the appropriate financing of the appropriateness of spending only in 208th place among 212th municipalities. In 208th place from 212th municipality, according to the Mayor, Mr Arsenovic. This is, of course, a sign of concern, an alarm, and precisely because of this malnutrition, we have tabled an amendment by the Moroccan opposition Members, which somehow eliminates this injustice or irregularity in the system. We are aware that primary health institutions, such as health homes, are within the jurisdiction of the municipalities, but when the second largest Slovenian city is located only in 208th place after funding is appropriate, it is only right that Members should intervene and propose essentially one correction. So I ask you to listen to this proposal and support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] Mrs. Lydia Wildeak Mirnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice to meet you, buddy. Yesterday I dedicated some time to Maribor, and we will talk about it before the vote, so I would once again invite colleagues from the coalition to consider whether in Maribor we need a health home yes or not in the biggest health crisis at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment investments at secondary and tertiary level, as well as the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB sent groups, the amendment of the leftist and LMŠ groups and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. I see more reports. First Dr. Duck, then Primaj Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Like UKC Ljubljana, UKC Maribor needs appropriate infrastructure after about 40, 30 years of creation. Since I've been down at least 50 times in this national council, what this is all about, I'm not going to repeat myself. It is also an amendment in 2022, which provides 20 million for the infrastructure reconstruction and upgrading of the University Clinical Centre in Maribor. However, the second amendment within this item is, of course, another part of providing financial resources for the new gastro clinic UKC in Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Siter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u114	Thank you very much. It's a story like old people's homes. Now I can only ask one question if anyone thinks we need an infection clinic in these days, or a better functioning or even functioning infection clinic. The current budget documents do not provide, if ever, the bloodthirsty funds needed for a new investment in health care. Although the budget of the Ministry of Health is increasing from €336 million to €520 first in 2021, that is true, but if we subtract from this sum the 200 million that the Ministry will have to spend on the deficit of the Health Insurance Office in the coming year, the budget for health will essentially remain 320 million, which is 16 million less than this year. So someone wins the record budget on this item, I think it's over. After we count down – we are in the middle of an epidemic – about 77 million euros that will have to be deducted for intervention measures, the figure is even lower and there will be 243 million euros left at the Ministry, which is a very low figure, depending on the needs. But this is not the worst news, even worse is 2022 will offer even more sub-budget funding for intervention measures, worth 69 million will remain only 225, which is, of course, less than a third – beware of this number – the sum of the budgetary resources the Government is committed to arms again. Okay, so we're talking about a relatively simple question: either a secondary tertiary level of investment to a secondary and tertiary level in health care or additional weapons. The problem is also purely of a substantive nature, not only of a financial nature, but not of a specified investment investment plan, but of a mere means of completing existing investments. Thus, no funds are provided in the budgets for 2021 and 2022 to build urgently needed infectious clinics. If ever then, then clinic in Ljubljana and Maribor. Now, however, the numbers on how much investment is being made in health care are as bearable and painful as the ones in long - term care. A few minutes ago, I was talking about the bad 20 million, about the modest 20 million long-term investment in long-term care, and in health care, the numbers are similar. For all health investments, the figures are similar. For all health investments there is only €60 million in the budget for 2021, only a million more for 2022. So when we're talking about investments in arms, let me remind you, we're talking about about about 600 million a year. So, 600 million for weapons, 60 million for health investments. Which is more than half a year from 2021-2027, so everything is planned for weapons in a total of 130 million. With this amendment, which you have Members and Members of Parliament on the table, in Levica, we propose that 50 million euros should be allocated to arms or the purchase of armored 8 X 8 and other unnecessary iron, whatever it is already in this group, redirect to the urgently needed investment item at the secondary and tertiary level. This can then be summed up or combined with European funds from the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism, then budgetaryly financed, as is said, urgently needed investments in infectious clinics in Ljubljana and Maribor. As we say at the outset, here, in fact, on this particular issue, we are faced with a dilemma, whether investing in health infrastructure during the greatest health crisis we have ever witnessed or with additional weapons. The decision, Members and Members of Parliament, is on your shoulders, as well as on your responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Lidija Divac Mirnik also took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u116	Thank you. Actually, Primoz said what I wanted to say myself. Are we going to put weapons on the one hand, or are we going to give them infrastructure to save lives in the worst health crisis since World War II? But today I have another dilemma. Are we going to argue with all of Europe, or are we going to start solving things at home where people are dying? For the Marjan Sarca List, it's not a matter of priority. However, I would like the coalition to realize that the priorities are different from what they are currently beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mr. Ducky, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u118	Thank you. I'm gonna call again, which I didn't say before. Of course, health infrastructure is not just equipment and walls, there are people. At the Maribor infectory clinic, Mrs. Lidija, I'm probably right in my head, there are 11 mainly infectologists, including some kind of infectologist, and there are about 70 in Ljubljana. You know, we also need to balance these things humanely, and I will not say that they are flowering flowers in Ljubljana, far away from it, but coming out of the constitution irrespective of – as we say in the White landscape – whose, no matter where your home or temporary address is, should have the same accessibility to Slovenian public health after the constitution. Those who gravitate tertiaryly against UKC Maribor are essentially too often second-class or third-class citizens. This is also why the Social Democrats will support this amendment of the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word was also wanted by the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u120	In view of the fact that the debate or debate on healthcare took place, as was the case last night, several numbers. Because I think that some numbers are exempt from many numbers and do not give an overall picture of how much this budget spends on health care and health care. I'm looking at the program budget. The programme budget means how much money is spent on health care, regardless of where certain numbers have been written to the Ministry, but it is also about some other ministries, such as the Ministry of Labour, covering certain healthcare services or health-related services. If we look only at what is paid out of the healthcare budget, without what the health insurance company receives from the special contribution of around 3 billion 600. So, for health care, we give to health through the insurance company with mandatory contributions of over 3 billion 600. In the budgets for 2021 we will give for health care 453, almost 454 million. If I compare it, in the 2016 budgets this number was 84 million, in the 2017 budget 256 million, in the 2018 budget 152 million, in the 2019 budget 186 million, in the budget balance of the budget 198 million. And in the draft budget for 2021 454 million. It's for all health care. I can also provide data, for example, where it increases most, is regulating the system and supporting activities in the field of healthcare. Here, for example, was the realisation in 2019 of 25 million, the draft budget for 2021 – 255 million. This money, of course, is due to the fact that we are in an epidemic. That too. Of course, it's perfectly clear that we say it and say it. On the other hand, it is also the decision to increase health money from the budget as well. If we look at the data, the international data, how much Slovenia gives as a percentage of GDP for health, if we look at it from the point of view of comparison with other countries, this percentage is slightly lower than in some other comparable countries, for example Austria and so on. However, such data, which were previously reported or excluded from the whole area of health care, do not give an overall picture. This is how I would mention this. This fact, which has been said several times here, and because of the fact that it is said repeatedly, I cannot agree with it at all, but it is repeated. In short, so much needs to be covered by another 200 million so-called potential losses of the Health Insurance Institute or, if I am more precise, the difference between the revenue and expenditure of the Health Insurance Office, which is why it is so much less. First, something is a balance sheet loss, second is because there's actually a cash flow here. So it's not exactly comparable. Just as from the financial point of view, what does not count is summed up, as shown here. That's one. And secondly, this loss is just some predicted loss that is supposed to happen, with the budget today covering all of the expenses for a co-worker — not a health insurance company, a budget. Of course, such a loss must first, of course, be examined as to whether it really is what it is, and what everything here really is in this loss. And what some potential loss to subtract from real numbers is, I'll say, so, can also be a bit tending. But I allow this option, and here I explain that without these numbers, of course, the picture would be incomplete or unilateral or tending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Reploko wanted Dr. Runczek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u122	Thank you. I mean, if anyone listened to the minister very carefully, he was honest. Far from me being trendy. There is some reservation in view of the anticipated loss, but at the same time we forget that we have some additional supplementary collateral that we are paying and some money that remains for insurance companies, probably also for profits, because certain activities are not carried out because of the Coronation Lockup. Just how much public health is put into public health if we go to recalculate per capita, we are comparable there with the Portuguese and here, because of the various organizations, it would be very difficult to draw some direct comparisons. The minister himself said, of course, if we go to watch the share of GDP to be lagging behind. The fact is, however we turn to which governments have been or have not been, that in the last twenty years it has been forgotten that the development of health care goes on to make sure that infrastructure is not the same for 30, 40 years after construction. I mean, do you know, because I don't know if you have one cottage, you have to renovate it in 30, 40 years, just secondary and tertiary health care. In fact, if we are watching all of this, there are no crazy reasons for joy or some kind of pumping, we have given, and this is also true of any previous government, including the LMŠ. Even as I said yesterday, people also pay us wages, through a whole series of taxes, taxes, up and down, we just redistribute it more or less mentally. Instead of this square circle or concealing documents, as a colleague from the SMC said, I would rather talk seriously about the European work where we would put more seriously and there, I hope, get 40, 50 million, which we urgently need for digitisation, serious information on Slovenian public health – and here we are comparable to the country of Austria's Styria, which needed such funds for some serious information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u123	Thank you very much. There's also a replica of Mr. Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Minister, we all agree, and this is not even a matter of a political position, but of a measurable fact that we have record and high budgets ahead of us. However, we also understand that with a record budget, as I have already explained, there is also record responsibility, and in record time, it is understood in the large budget that all its stakeholders receive more in proportion. You have highlighted this in your implementation. But in what way, given the time and circumstances, the Government is moving forward in the distribution of these funds within a record budget, but, of course, the government's responsibility is a matter of course. At the time of the biggest health crisis, during the economic crisis, the distribution seen in these budget documents is worth criticising. First of all, you're not the government, you're the one responsible for keeping this budget record. The economy is deserving, the workers are deserving, overexploited and underpaid, creating added value, creating profits, and in the end they have nothing to gain from it. But that's one thing. Another thing, however, is that you are irresponsible in how these means, given that they can work for the good of the people, are divided and the numbers are completely measurable and proveable. Only now that we've talked about investments in long-term care and secondary and tertiary health care are the numbers important. DSO in the year, homes for the elderly, investments in 2021 – 23 million, health care 60 and arms 636. In 2022 - 22 million in homes, infrastructure in nursing homes, 61 in secondary and tertiary health care, and 668 in weapons. At this point the government's responsibility begins, Minister. Either you work with the money that we all earned, like a pig with fur, or for the benefit of some American or Hungarian producers, or it will return to the welfare of the people. The thing is very simple and this mathematics is as simple as the beans would say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lydia Wildeak Mirnik, who do you have a replica of? To the Minister. Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We have a dilemma or you obviously have one, but in the coalition you've already decided, you'll give it to some foreign countries, to those weapons manufacturers you'll obviously agree with, instead of giving it to the Health Center at Tezně in Maribor, instead of giving it to UKC in Maribor and other things that I don't even talk about homes for the elderly. And that's actually what we have on the table today. All the other high-flying words, Mr. Secretary, are bluffs and that's what you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude this debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme the operation of emergency medical care and health care in emergency situations and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 3330 of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the debate on the amendments tabled to the 7th sub-programmes in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme first of all Research programmes and projects, as well as the amendments of the leftist Group and the amendment of the SD and SAB sent groups. Anybody want a word? Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u128	The quality of our humble life will depend on the quality of our minds. Of course, scientific research is important here. Whether we're going to be a country of business or a country of higher added value, as they call it, slightly neoliberal. With the amendment that we have jointly tabled in the Group of Social Democrats and in the Group of the Party of Alenka Bratušek, we allocate resources for scientific research activities where they feed – to the Ministry of Science. Of course, the Ministry of Finance, which needs an insane measure of intelligence, already has enough of its tasks and other tasks. We cannot go around the country in some way as the current president and this government and the coalition would have wanted; there will be two large billion items there, and then we will have a little bit of root and wand. This is, if we read materially, I am going a little bit further to my liver – 114th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia The operation and structure of the government – is also unconstitutional. That's why we're repeating this amendment. It is not a problem for the governments of the radical right simply to be aggressive, primitive, arrogant, the bigger the problem is that they are unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting forward a sub-programme to support research infrastructure and to amend the SD and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u130	It's a related story. Here we just want to preserve the so-called integral part of the resources for science in the budget. This government and this coalition obviously likes Slovenian intelligence so much that they can get it out of their integrity. So much for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lydia Wildeak Mirnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u132	Science is the one that brings, and the people who are educated are the ones who are obviously disturbed by this government, so in an integral way money is taken here, which is completely unacceptable from the point of view of the List of Marjana Sharca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u133	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Enhancing the involvement of children in pre-school education and the amendment of the leftist Group and the SD Group of Members. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes and the amendment of the Left Group. Mr. Siter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Slovenian elementary schools are pitted on the seams. The Community of Slovene municipalities warns that the number of children in primary schools will increase rapidly in the coming years, and that there is an increasing need to provide additional capacity. In public primary schools, it is somehow estimated, including the Statistical Office, that by 2023 additional 14 and 14 thousand 251 cities will have to be provided in Slovenian primary schools. Most of them are at the impact of the city’s congregation, but there is not much worse situation elsewhere. Then there's an epidemic. In the last few days, I've been chatting with some representatives, teachers, teachers, high school professors, and the story is the same everywhere. Under the circumstances, because of lack of infrastructure, because of the schooling measure at home and so on, they face catastrophic distress. Above all, over time, especially in the inability to achieve the stated learning goals, which, in these given circumstances, home schooling, cannot provide, and these are only teachers and teachers. Then there are the school managements, which, to say the least, reveal hot water about how to ensure normal working conditions for those workers in education. Then there are parents who have their own story of children, two, three, three computers, six cameras and work and household chores and so on. And then there are children or primary school children, including high school children, who have to live in all of this as a normal educational process, and of course there is no way. But because of the outbreak of the epidemic, so to speak, the need for investment in primary schools has increased, on the whole line, at all levels. Not again – I will repeat my predecessor – not only the walls, not only the additional background in primary school there and there, but at the entire level of equipment. The number of teachers and other professional staff providing teaching material, including administrative work and, of course, infrastructural reinforcements, i.e. additional facilities, tables, technical equipment for teaching, whether live or away. We therefore propose that with this amendment, respected colleagues and colleagues, in order to ensure, in due time, that sufficient capacity is provided in public primary schools, they increase investment funds in primary education, thereby also allowing the re-enactment of the call for co-financing of public primary school investments, so that at least the school system can breathe normally during these difficult times. We are all parents at the final stage, we all know what we are facing right now and we want a smooth exit from this crisis. The additional funding to finance investments in primary schools is one step in this direction. We propose that the budget documents be allocated in this direction, i.e. to finance investments in primary schools, from the Infrastructure and Equipment item of the Slovenian Armed Forces, where purchases of 8x8 and other weapons are primarily financed. So again, we are back to the priorities that Slovenian politics is reaping. This time we decide whether we invest in armor or invest in our own children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Lidija Divac Mirnik also took the floor and then Mr Horvat and then went on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Now, Primoz, we're in line, like we're gonna figure out what we're gonna say, I like that, I hope you're okay and I hope you're okay here. Once again we have a dilemma, whether we will finally put our children back in school, because distance learning is not the same as schooling, that of all the pressures children and parents experience here, I don't even start talking, or what this government has decided, which is that we will rather buy weapons from our friendly countries. And I'm not going to start here with Hungary. [[…]] I hope that you too, Mr Finance Minister, realize that when the schools return, they will have to adapt to this situation in order to ensure at least this, meter and a half. A lot of schools can't guarantee that. I don't need to talk about the fact that the birth rate was even a little higher, and everything from kindergarten to kindergarten is going to prove to be a problem. Therefore, I would be delighted if the coalition finally realized that it was better, more just, and more appropriate for our children if we put money in them, not into weapons. That is why, of course, we welcome the amendment in the List of Marjan Šarc, and we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath has the word now, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am glad that we are finally together, that we are all finally sharing the care of kindergarten and primary infrastructure together. I have already discussed this in the budget documents for 2021. I will not speak and repeat our actions and our actions as an opposition party. We have not changed the board, now that we have come to the government and we are part of the government, and here we want to implement this kind of policy with responsibility. Of course, school is very important, our young people are the most important. Nor will I be critical of what someone in the past, let's say in the last ten years, has done, because it does not bring us anywhere, if we remember, but not in budgetary discussions at all. Therefore, as regards investments in primary and kindergarten infrastructure, it is first of all to be objectively aware that this is the case for municipal investment. We all know who the founder of kindergarten and elementary school is. Here the competent ministry can perform – and it is right to act – as a co-investor, and we have provided, in the coalition, for the next four years, this is 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024, a total of 40 million funds to invest in such infrastructure; that is, in schools and primary schools. Now the congregations must pay close attention to the invitation to publish, which will allow for co-financing, and even more so to obtain the necessary documentation in due time, namely, the congregations. I expect that the funds will also be distributed on the basis of a measurable criterion on the development of the congregation, on the basis of demography and so on and so forth. If we were or listened to a meeting of the Finance Committee on Saturday, that is where Dr Gasparič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, said exactly what I said now. In short, four-year tender, 40 million euros. This means that the funds are provided in the budget documents, and this will be realized, which means that the amendments proposed are not necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Koražija has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u140	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The point is, just as you all have discussed before, the fact is that if we invest wisely and also a lot in primary schools and even in the education system, we will also have a really better future, because, as we said before, this generation will also care for us. I think we all want to have experts or experts in the field: whether it's health, whether it's engineering, or whether it's mathematics, physics, because it doesn't matter – in all areas. It is right to increase these funds or to increase them, and I think that this coronary crisis has actually shown what is the essence of everything, namely, family, children, and that we simply know how to take care of each other or that we are solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. I Google something and I don't get thrown out, I don't have the number of elementary schools in Slovenia and kindergartens right now. 40 million divided by 4 is 10 million per year. Good morning!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme the activities of higher education and the amendment of the SD and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u144	If I am a little cynical, this debate today about education, which is essentially the largest system in Slovenia, if we look from kindergarten to postdoc, it is about six of us all. If we add parents, caregivers, old parents, someone to train, and someone else, we probably get to a quarter, a third of all of us. This government here takes an integral part in higher education activities, and I also announced at the next point. I don't know what the message of this budget is now, we're going to give something small for elementary schools, then you're going to go to the museum to see that Ivan is the greatest and that this is it. I mean, that's how someone who listens could read it. I don't know if we're going to be able to repay those budgets at the age of 30 or if my grandson will be able to repay those budgets at the age of 30 and 20, and if the State bonds of the Republic of Slovenia will have more favourable interest rates in 15 or 20 years with such policies. I'm afraid not. In particular, in this amendment, at least we maintain the integral resources for higher education in the budget. In view of the fact that if anyone else is to watch this, to listen to it from citizens and citizens, given all these billions, we are talking about two million 560 000 euros from the university education unit that this government wanted to cut off.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of the University Library and the amendment of the SD and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Dr. Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Look, just like me and us in social democracy, we're diplomas, masters, PhDs, even how we wrote the book ourselves. If I'm personal, my study was the hardest colloquium in German, because I'm not really a language talent, and I don't like to play it, so I went to do it myself. If I paraphrase Bertol Brecht, the book is a weapon. If you want to study seriously, you need university libraries, including in some third, fourth period of your life. I'm looking at a fellow Private who wrote a nice book criticizing neoliberalism, maybe he'll write another way, because he's such a thinking man, I sometimes call him Socrates, he'll probably need a university library. I have no doubt that our colleague Bevk will not write anything yet, but also, to be honest, the NSI's pubes also write a book and finish their studies themselves – that I will not nod that I am pushing you somewhere you don't belong. You know, I'm literally ashamed of myself as a man with a doctorate, for which I also received the award for the best doctorate in that year at the FDV, that I have to defend the amendment here and beg to maintain 7 million integral funds for our university library. With billions of budget quotas! Where do I live? Do I live in a society where we want to be idiots? Whether this is a message of this budget, ej models that you write diplomas, master's degrees, doctorates, welcome books – or also books to some politicians – welcome, has business for you. This is the message. After all, this department is basically leading my colleague from the FDV, the political scientist, the fuck, the picture, if anyone, she should tell me whether I'm going to resign or whether it's going to be an integral. And as long as there are no politicians like that, people like that don't belong to some spelunk privately, the last end of the university, except that they come from state universities, and they cut into the integrity of these universities. I'd rather kill myself now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u147	Dr. Duck, we hope this doesn't happen. We continue the debate. Mrs. Lidija Divac Mirnik also called.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Vice President. Actually, Franjo, I understand. I understand that it upsets you, because that doesn't go through the value system to a sane normal person. I can't get through either. We're taking marijuana from the university's integrative library. What has one of you from a coalition that won't support this today been to the University Library of Maribor? I hope you were. But if you're not, go over there and see Maister's room downstairs. You know, this isn't just about making fun of people. It is also a mockery of those who want to be educated who want to learn, and it is a last resort from all students of the University of Maribor. Because the message of this government is, we don't need books, we don't need smart students. We need those who nod, and we need those who are quiet and believe the great leader. That is why we will now build you a museum so that you can worship a great leader there. Hey, my dears, you've lost your compass! Totally! That's unacceptable. It's unacceptable for the list of Marjan Sharcas. It's over. You can't take money where we prosper. Are you kidding me?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Sport infrastructure and the amendment of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB and the two amendments of the SD Group. Anybody want a word? Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u150	I see Lydia's still coming around. She'll probably want a word after that. This amendment is essentially about the renovation of the Tabor Hall in Maribor. Now I remember, I have another lecture to give today for students for architecture in Maribor. What am I supposed to say to them? You won't have the money to study with us. Learn German online, and rest over — or what? This is a message from this budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lydia Wildeak Mirnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u152	Yesterday I spoke about the fact that in Maribor, as the second largest city in the country, we do not get through one sports hall that would satisfy European standards for the highest level games. And that's actually what we're doing with this amendment. We all like to brag about our athletes. If there's only one option, we take pictures with them. In short, athletes are the ones who promote Slovenia, which we probably all agree on. Unfortunately, athletes must also have sufficient infrastructure to achieve these top results, which they also achieve. That is why it would be right and fair to have such a sports hall in Maribor. Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mag. Reich, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u154	So we're talking about the sports hall Tabor, which is 40 years old and needs new sanitation, new heat to this one. This is a hall that has one regional importance in which international competitions can take place for the time being. But this is also a hall that will not meet these standards slowly. If we want to strengthen the geostrategic position of our city and if we want to make one counterweight to the Austrian Castle, then we need to build an infrastructure in the city that the rest of the population will also recognize as their own and as the center of their life interests. I stress this once again; if we want to consolidate Maribor's position towards the Austrian Castle, I speak perfectly to the Austrian Castle, not Ljubljana, because the Austrian Gradec poses a danger, not Ljubljana, then in the town near Drava we need to provide infrastructure and also sports infrastructure, so that all generations, from the youngest to the oldest, can be properly educated and refined. That's why I'm calling on everyone to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Dr. Ducky. Again, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u156	Now that it will not turn out that we are such localpatriots of Styrians who we are, of course, but sports infrastructure we need to develop throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and Members we are Members of all people, so of course we are in the SD Group of Members, because Jože Tanko did not do this, we have also tabled an amendment for the pool in Ribnica and for the sports hall in Ribnica, because Poklopje, my dear Kolopje, and in the chalet region, I am a little less, and we could learn from the Ribniks what is a fishing tolar, because we will have to return these credits, we also need healthy people, also what kind of community we like here, which we are therefore peoratively considering, with which we have concrete problems to include – the Roma community, in sport, in healthy forms of survival of life, and also that some stereotypes between us are going away from this way. This is also why, of course, I will support these two amendments prepared by our colleague Predrag, who has delegated me to explain this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u157	Thank you very much. And Mr. Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u158	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I gotta take this. I called yesterday, and I'm gonna answer today. Look, colleague Mirnik, you were loud yesterday, you're loud today. That is also right, you have this right for all of us, but we are happy to listen to you, but one fact has to be said. During the junction, the government of Marjan Šarc and, above all, the List of Marjan Šarc did not support the averages of the municipalities. The averages of the municipality were raised by this government in the antikoronic package 2. And from this title, Maribor received 3.3 million. More money than in your government. We have supported this with awareness because we are aware that the government is directing tasks to municipalities that are not able to finance them. We're aware of that. This government of yours, despite its economic growth, has failed to do so, and on a proposal from the SDS party, you have rejected twice the increase in averages. We will increase averages in 2021 and in 2022. From this address, all congregations will receive more money, and I am sure that the congregations need to be able to make use of these funds. All these amendments, esteemed colleague Mirnik, who you have invested, Maribor was also in 2019 when the budget for 2021, prepared by your government, was discussed. Then why didn't you put that in? Did you forget about Maribor when you were in the government? We did not forget about any congregation, nor about Maribor. And since we've been talking here for half an hour about Maribor, we're going to say that Maribor's average increase won 3.3 billion euros more money than it did at the time of the government of Marjana Sharca. [[background advertising]] And millions. 3.3 million. Even now, by raising the average, all Slovenian municipalities will receive more resources. However, the budget for 2021 was prepared by your governments and you were sitting in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First of all, Mrs. Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Vice President. Yes, I expected Mr. Pogačnik to say something. Why are we talking about Maribor? Because Maribor is the second largest city funded, you know, this is the first time. I am glad that the Moroccan Members, at least the opposition, are united because those coalitions who come from Maribor do not stick with us, God help us. Why, you'll talk to him. But as for how you raised averages and how we didn't when we had a government. For the first time in history, the government of Marjan Šarc has raised the averages, even after the famous formula that I am concerned, is wrong, or at least has to be changed for the city’s municipalities. But you know what the difference between your government and ours is? The difference is that we were bound by a fiscal rule, but you weren't. The difference between our government and your government is that we left the plus in the account when you got the government. But you have made such a poof that both my grandchildren and your grandchildren will pay for it. That's the difference between your government and ours. As far as we're concerned, we didn't do it the way we did it. Of course, because the documentation was not prepared, and you know that you can put the project into the budget when the documentation is made. Here is my criticism of Mayor Maribor today and I repeat it over and over again. Even at the Maribor library, where the Municipality of Maribor will have to do its part. Please don't fool me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Dr. Duck's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u162	Thank you. I could listen to this and drag some prominent former member of the SDS from Maribor, who has not prepared any projects, and I will not let a man enjoy with his young beautiful twins. The budgets shall be adopted by the National Assembly. Governments make a proposal, one government inherits something from another government, another situation comes — whatever government it is now — I usually say Miha Kordish, and this time I will not. I don't know what to say. Coracia, if you were the Prime Minister, you'd be in debt now, but as long as we're here fighting mine, yours, the mountains, down. [[…]] Yesterday I listened almost in this way: what a kid is the opposition going to do, we brought – the government – the budget, we will burn it. The National Assembly is responsible for the budget, the National Assembly is the primary custodian of the budget! The government, whatever it is, corresponds to the National Assembly, paragraph 110. After all, the National Assembly will allow the government, without the National Assembly. All of you who are limping like this: little of ours, yours, mountains, down; but you are not, personally, my opinion, Members, because you do not take seriously the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. Together we are the guardians of the budget; from the one who received 300 votes in the Rippers to John, who is only in one of the largest polls. [[Incomprehensible]] Pika. Let's stop being irresponsible. After all, if children are watching, they are also learning what parliamentaryism is, and you are teaching them false religion. This criticism also flies to some representatives of the former government here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u163	Thank you. Once again, the Magi has applied for the debate. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u164	Madam President, once again, thank you for your word. It is probably different to work in the environment when economic growth is, or when the covid-19 virus is, and when it closes from the economy, schools, hospitals are crowded. I would say that, with this comparison now made by Comrade Divac, I cannot agree. Of course, Comrade Divac has the right to his opinion, but I am sure that by raising averages we are somehow getting closer to what the local community needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to the budget user 3340 Ministry of Culture and discussion on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion a sub-programme for the protection of cultural heritage the archival and book activity and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups, the amendment of the SB Group of Ambassadors and the SD Group of Ambassadors. I see more debaters. The first one gets the word, Mr. Just Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! With these amendments, I would have a question for Mr Finance Minister, Mr Shirtzl, and I would have asked him if he could answer my question, which I would like to ask, as well. It's two amendments or two objects and three amendments. This is the construction of the Maribor Library and the construction of the reception and information centre for the Partizan Hospital Franjo. Both facilities or both investments are, and will probably also be co-financed by the local community, both Maribor Municipality and Cerkno Municipality. However, since these are important objects, co-financing of the country is also expected. I would like to ask the Minister whether, in the context of the budgets for 2021 and in particular for 2022, under the budget, there are funds available for the implementation of the Law on the provision of certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. In fact, at the end of last year, the National Assembly adopted this law and from 2021 to 2027, it is expected that 122 million and 600 thousand euros will be allocated to the area of culture. For 2021, 9.3 million euro is needed for the implementation of this law. I recall that the Secretary of State, Dr Ignacija Friedl Jarc, at the Committee on Culture of the National Assembly, said that the budget for 2021 provided funds for the implementation of the Law on Culture and for 2022 I do not know. I therefore ask the Minister whether, in 2022, EUR 12 million is provided under this law? Because for the rehabilitation of the most endangered and most important cultural monuments and for the arrangement of basic premises for public institutions of culture, where both objects subject to the amendment belong. This is how I would like to hear in the debate on these amendments how it is with the provision of the Cultural Euro Act. I'm sorry the minister listened to me and walked out the door nicely. I think we Members deserve the ministers who are paid to work in the National Assembly to answer our questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Member, I will now be so correct, and I will say that the Minister has listened to your question all the time and has directed now to me, as President, that he comes a minute back, after the debate is over, we have two more speakers to report to you, and he will answer you. Mr. Just Bevk, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u168	Yeah, if it's true that the minister is coming back, that maybe he's just gone to some sort of emergency, then I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u169	Yes, thank you very much. Mr Trček now has the floor to prepare Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u170	Thank you. One last business trip, as normal as it was last year, was the great Cosac in Finland. During the Presidency, the government fell because of the affair – right, higher-ups to the Janša government. In Finland, the government would fall because of the mask affair, and now we have a more feminine predominance in key functions, which I very much want with us. I was the only representative of the National Assembly. At that time, the Sharčev government, in connection with these three million for me in the present government, accepted the balance of the budget and then visited something that the Finns gave themselves for the centennial of independence. A new living room, their beautiful new library, and I'm almost sorry that I didn't stay there, probably how I would have lived a year more. This amendment, which applies here – well, our mayor, because a little so-called pianists told him he likes to talk about the Rotov Centre, but it's actually something like what the Finns gave him. And instead of this museum of independence, with such budgets, we could give ourselves this library in Maribor, and after – I don't know how long we've been doing this, for decades – also NUK 2. That would be a symbolic act for me. After all, we are partly mythical because we are a nation of books. I can go to Trubar, I can go to Jurčič, who said, "if we can't work on the political field, we work at least on the cultural field" as he taught me now unfortunately for some time now the late Aleš Debeljak. I miss him so much. It would probably be very, very justified and in a much nicer Slovenian language than I would be. Of course, with these stories that we have been repeating around the congregations, I have been lonely here for the past seven years that we urgently need a reform of local self-government. Sometimes I feel that this does not fit many at national level, nor does it seem to any mayor that there is an excuse. That money will never be enough. Of course, when we talk about a Rotovž Centre, it is not just some local patriotism, nor do I know, Primož Siter can visit his mother-in-law in Maribor, but some good cooks go to the library together. This, Lydia's a little on you too, don't fish too hard, because his is Styria too. You can come to us from Ljubljana, too, why not? We could also have some beautiful 3D printers in this library, and we could create something like Finland. By the way, around that first wave of the crown, there was a lot of talk about how we have developed a super good prototype of the Slovenian predator, and then all of a sudden, it shuts down. It is likely that there will be no threat to someone’s business — another question that will have to be asked in this regard. Also, a colleague of Sam Bevk, an experienced Member of the National Assembly, said very well. Some department in the department says something, they're some punks, and then it's kind of in the pocket. If anything, this aggressive government is opposed to knowledge, science and culture. Except for that culture that she's going to say is the only right, domestic one that probably comes from some natural law through their optics, which is not true, but you know. The wise men are the same artifice as the Laibachs. Let one and the other forgive me. After all, the boss of Modrijanov himself tells us what they picked up from the rockers and so on. And I'm also listening to Tony Verderber not to tell Tony Verderber how he would solve the refugee issue. [[…]] It's a little awkward, on one side of your chest, knocking on each other's chest. Our colleague also writes so beautifully – and seriously, I mean, I'm not kidding – they're patriotic poetry and, on the other hand, in their pocket, they're talking about culture. Here are the three beautiful amendments in the budget for the following year, where we can prove what we do not always prove in the National Assembly that we are, after all, politicians, regardless of which sex, tendency and number and identity we personally are cultural beings after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u172	Thank you very much. In the opposition, as we have said, we have connected, the Moroccan one, and today we will talk quite a bit about these Maribor projects, at least there in the vote. And it is also true that Members from the same region, if we come from the same region, we stick together. If we're coming from the same town, anyway. It's just sad that some people aren't with us if I say so in the notes. As for the funds for the construction of the Centre Rotovž, an innovative centre aimed at the promotion of books, education, culture and digitisation, this is something that we have been really sweeping in Maribor for several years. However, it is true that the former mayor, I think he was changing some five locations where we would have it, now that the new one who came, who, by the way, is SMC mayor to understand each other, has decided on a single location, which is okay, prepared documentation and because the documentation is now ready, meets the conditions for this project to be budgeted. Don't let Comrade Pogačnik tell me again why you didn't do it in the time of Marjan Sarc. That's why we didn't do it. I'm answering it in advance. Why did we actually survive the Slovenians? Because of his culture and his language. Where could they have read that language once? Yes, a book. Yeah, where do we have 'em? In the library. I'm sure you all understand that very well, even in the coalition. That is why I would like to see what I have said several times — and I will do it again today — that the Maribor congregation as a city congregation is underfunded to be given more mandatory tasks than money. And since, of course, the city council has to do this mandatory task, it takes money on investments and is therefore running out of money on investments. There's no big philosophy in the back. I really don't. Everyone understands that. I hope you understand that in the coalition, or at least you'll want to understand. That is why we need to co-finance this project. And yes, Mr Bevk has asked very well how much of the cultural euro money we – by the way – received during the government of Marjan Sarca – is intended for two projects. One is the Maribor library or the Rotovž Center, and the other is the Franja Hospital or the reception center. Whoever was already there, I was alone this year, really that sad-looking one. There's this cabin, and that's it, and there's nothing. And it's not that big of a money. Not at all, given the billions of puffs we make or work. That's why I'd like you to go next to that museum that you're about to build — I don't mind the museum, so we can understand each other — to see that there's something else we need to do. Because to honor the character and work of the great leader, this period, I hope we are outgrown. To go to other times now, although after all the letters that fly, I am not exactly sure that you have grown beyond this period to honor the image and work of the great leader. I wouldn't want to think that this government has a resistance to knowledge, science and culture. Certainly not, because I am sure and I know that many of you are also passionate about culture and it is right that we all do this; but it is also right that Maribor gets this loving library. This is also true because Maribor deserves it and because we also pay the Mariborians in this common budget small, which now has such a large minus. That is why it is fair and just. That's how they used to teach me when I was a believer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Of course we need the Centre Rotovž, we need a library in Maribor, totally normal. And I don't mind you telling us now that we've lost our compass to oppress our culture. I am looking for some common nominees, and I will again refer to Dr. Franz Trcko, whom I do not currently see in the Chamber – and it is not important – for preventive health reasons in the office, but this is his freedom. He said NUK 2. I don't know if you know, NUK 2 and I are serious. Whether it's the right time or not, there's no dilemma here: it's the right time, it's the right time. We've been pacifying this thing too long, or some former governments have been ploying, which were very cultural, but with NUK 2, there was nothing. Let me tell you that the NUK 2 Act is in intersectoral coordination. And he'll go through as far as the coalition's concerned. I believe that 90 votes for this bill – 82 million investment – will be such a rough estimate. That now we've lost the compass, that's what you can say, that's your freedom of speech, that's your freedom of speech, and so on. It doesn't really touch me. Is that why we are now the ones who oppress culture, you can say it, it's totally nothing to me. We will do what we estimate is right, which is right for our Slovenian culture, so we are also drastically increasing the funding for the Ministry of Culture for 2021 and 2022, which is now the topic of this agenda item. Let us do something together for the Rotovž Centre; it is now a municipal investment and the state will co-finance. I also say that money must not be a problem in such matters, but I hope that the municipality has prepared all the documentation, construction and so on, because only then does the project have, in my understanding, the conditions for state co-financing. Of course culture, of course Slovenian language. I don't need to prove it to you as Prekmurac. We also know who he was, ladies and gentlemen, who is responsible for us Prekmurci speaking Slovenian today. We know, we know. Against this, you know mostly on the far left brutally ugly talk. We know who preserved the Slovenian and Slovenian languages, the Premur language, left of Mura, between Mura and Raba. But it's not a topic today, but please don't think of it that way. You can tell us again that we've lost the compass, you can tell us that we despise culture. Culturers in the PKP have already obtained their legal status for the first time in their lives, for the first time in their careers the basic monthly personal income, but this is not the topic either. But with NUK 2, we're moving on, full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word was also wanted by the Minister, Mr. Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I owe you one answer. Secondly, I can only say that in 2021 there is a projected consumption of 268 million in culture, which is more than 48 million in 2020 when there was a rebalancing and 66 million more in 2019, which means that these funds are increasing substantially for different purposes. Under this overall cultural budget, 23.5 million funding for investment in culture is also included under the Act on the provision of funds for certain emergency cultural programmes to be launched in 2022. However, it is not clear which investments in culture will be built from this money. In short, in some ways money is reserved, Mr Bevk, or money will be available, but it is not yet set for which. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Minister, for answering my question. I am pleased that the Government has decided to implement the Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture for the period 2021-2027, so that Slovenian culture will be richer by 122 million and 600 000 euros. Let me say that in December, when we had our third reading of this law, practically the entire National Assembly, with the exception of the three votes against, supported this law. It is said that the Cultural Euro Act has a consensus in Slovenian politics and the cultural public, and I am pleased that after seven dry years, the last Cultural Euro Act has expired at the end of 2013. From 1999 to 2013, Slovenia's culture was richer by €95 million on the basis of several laws on cultural euro, and I now believe that with the implementation of the new Law on cultural euro, the real cultural policy can be a little easier to breathe into cultural creativity and investment in this area. Again, thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The vote on the amendments and on the Special Part of the Additional Draft Budget will be held today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will take place today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is a preliminary proposal for the amending Decision on the framework for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Mags. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Due to the exceptional circumstances created by the covid-19 epidemic, the National Assembly has already adopted two amendments to this decree, namely the work relating to 2020. This time, you are facing a change that relates to 2021 and 2022. This is also linked to the proposal for amending the budget for 2021 and the draft budget for 2022. In both years, changes in the decree allow for a higher level of expenditure in the light of the current situation. With the proposed amendments to the decree, the target balance of the 2021 sector from the planned 1.1 per cent of gross social product surplus will have grown to 6.6 per cent of GDP deficit and the target balance of the state budget from 1.2 per cent of gross social product to minus 5.7 per cent of GDP. For 2022, the decree provides for a reduction in the deficit of the state sector to minus 4.6 per cent of the gross social product and the state budget to 3.2 per cent of the gross social product. In line with these objectives, expenditure ceilings will also be increased. Higher levels of expenditure are required due to measures to deal with the effects of the covid-19 pandemic. Fiscal rules allow higher spending in such situations. For 2021, a derogation clause from fiscal rules is made possible at European level due to exceptional circumstances. For 2022 too, the start of a gradual resolution of public financial deficits is expected to be required to increase. This also reflects the objectives of the proposed amendment of the decree, which is to say, a gradual reduction of the deficit from the summit this year. The other Member States of the European Union are also planning large-scale incentives to deal with the epidemic and its consequences. The European Commission's autumn forecast in 2021 for euro area countries on average predicts a deficit of 6.4 per cent of gross social product in 2022 and 4.7 per cent of gross social product in 2022, which means that these deficits are greater than or are proposed for Slovenia. The current situation is inconclusive. We witness this from day to day. This makes fiscal planning even more uncertain for 2022. The Fiscal Council also notes with uncertainty in its work, where it notes that in 2021 at least one of the two statutory conditions for the enforcement of exceptional circumstances is expected to be met, whereas for 2022 it is not currently possible to establish that such forecasts are not static and all depends on the future course of events. The current expected growth of the gross social product used in the preparation of the amendments to the decree is minus 6.7 per cent for 2020, 5.1 per cent for 2021 and 3.7 per cent for 2022. For 2021, indicators are expected to improve on the assumption used and economic activity from 2019 is expected to be achieved in 2022. Of course, everything will depend on the development of the epidemic or on the halting of the epidemic in us and in the world, so these assumptions can change quickly. Dear Members! In the light of the exceptional situation we are in, there is a need for extensive action, while at the same time thinking about the future and laying the foundations for recovery as quickly as possible. Fiscal incentives will need to be maintained long enough to ensure that recovery is not compromised, as also stressed by independent institutions such as the OECD and the European Central Bank. All of this makes it possible to consider and adopt a decision and I therefore propose that you support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u182	Madam Vice-President, Madam Members, Madam Members! At its 45th urgent meeting on 20 October this year, the Committee on Finance considered as its parent working body the Proposal for a Decision amending the Framework Decision on the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the years 2020 to 2022. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the Minister of Finance made substantive changes to the draft decree and the reasons which are mainly due to exceptional circumstances as a result of the covid-19 epidemic. He said that all government actions would have a significant impact on public finances, but that human health is paramount. He also presented the Government's written responses to the Fiscal Council's assessment and said that the Government would follow the Fiscal Council's recommendations on both expenditure and control. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service gave a warning, which is reflected in the written opinion of the Service and relates to the Government’s finding that exceptional circumstances have arisen. Following the meeting, the President of the Fiscal Council presented a written assessment of the Fiscal Council and said that there were certain conditions under the Fiscal Rule Act to allow exceptional circumstances to apply, so that these conditions were met. This applies to this year and next year. As far as 2022 is concerned, it is not yet clear that the situation is changing at a very high rate and will be checked regularly by the Fiscal Council. He then presented the public financial projections for the next two years. He said that the measures should be directed to where the burdens were greatest and he mentioned health care. He further made recommendations to the Government, which are reflected in the written opinion of the Fiscal Council, referring in particular to the timing of the assessment of the existence of exceptional circumstances and the preparation of budgetary documents and the explanation of the difference in the changes in the expenditure of the State sector and the change in the amount of expenditure in the draft decree. It further pointed out the risks associated with large investment funds, both in terms of their efficient consumption and absorption capacity and in terms of their control. Following the meeting, the Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development said that the decree had taken account of the autumn forecast and said that the decline in economic growth would be slightly smaller than in the annual forecast and that recovery would be better, and at present the situation is very uncertain and is increasing. For 2022, it forecasted 5.1% economic growth, mainly due to exports, investments and private consumption. For 2022, economic growth is expected to be 3.7%. The debate focused on the existence of exceptional circumstances and uncertainty, which also affects the forecasts and budgetary documents. Concern was expressed about the planned investments and the increase in the country's indebtedness, as well as the gap between the proposal for a framework and the draft budget regarding the level of expenditure. In the course of the debate, the Minister of Finance answered the questions raised, stressing that Slovenia is one of the few countries that has received a higher credit rating during this period, which means that financial resources can be borrowed under more favourable conditions than standard ones. Further questions were also answered by the President of the Fiscal Council and the Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the draft decree and adopted them. Since no amendments have been tabled to the Proposal for a Decree on the home working body, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Decision amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022 be adopted in the text table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he gets the word "magic." Dušan Verbich. He will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President of the National Assembly. Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! The decree on the framework for the preparation of state sector budgets is a central document setting out our public financial framework for the following years and is prepared under the Fiscal Rule Act. The amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia made it possible to adopt the Fiscal Rule Act, which contains a fundamental principle of public finance management at the level of the whole sector of the country. The role of the National Assembly is clearly defined. In accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act, the National Assembly, by means of a specific act or decision on the framework for the preparation of the sector's budgets, sets out the key public financial frameworks to be pursued in public financial planning, namely the target balance of the State sector as a whole and of individual public finances and the maximum possible amount of expenditure for the State sector and the individual treasury. The Government has laid down amendments to the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022, which are necessary in order to prepare proposals for amending the budget for 2020-2021 and the draft budget for 2022, and to take into account the autumn macroeconomic forecasts of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for macroeconomic analysis and development. In view of the exceptional circumstances created by the covid-19 epidemic, the National Assembly has already adopted two amendments to the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022 relating to 2020, and these amendments relate to the years 2021 and 2022. The amendment of the decree will allow for an appropriate level of expenditure to promote recovery after the fall of economic growth in 2020 and to deal with the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. The period considered, from 2020 to 2022, provides for an increase in the deficit of the state sector compared to the previous decree of half a percentage of GDP, an increase in the ceiling of expenditure of the state sector, the state budget and the expenditure of municipalities, and an increase in the target balances of the state sector and the state budget. By leading fiscal policy in the past, SMC has proven that we are supporters of sustainable and responsible fiscal policies. We can say responsibly that we are a party to the SMC based on past work and in this government, which supports the management of fiscal policy, because it ensures stability and growth in the future. We must be aware, however, that the exceptional circumstances created by the covid-19 epidemic have allowed a derogation from fiscal rules aimed at stabilising public finances, ensuring social security and preventing a significant increase in unemployment in our country. The government responded to the situation in a timely and responsible manner. With responsible work, it prevented job losses and thus ensured further revenue for health, education and social welfare. We are convinced that, in such situations, large-scale and multi-stage fiscal policy action is both appropriate and necessary, but only this must not jeopardise the medium-term sustainability of public finances. It is also necessary to know that Slovenia is one of the few countries that has received a credit rating during this period, which means that it can borrow funds under more favourable conditions than other countries. The following should be added under this heading. On the basis of a request from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Fiscal Council adopted an assessment of the application of exceptional circumstances and an assessment of the compatibility of the fiscal policy with fiscal rules. Furthermore, the decree also takes into account the autumn forecast of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for macroeconomic analysis and development, which notes that the decline in economic growth will be slightly lower than in the annual forecast and that recovery will be better. On the basis of the above, we are of the view that the decision in question provides us with stable and development-oriented finances, so we will support the proposal for a decree in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. Greetings, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Following the projected 4.2 billion deficit in the 2020 budget balance, Janez Janša's government is again planning a huge deficit for the next two years, €2.75 billion in 2021 and €1.6 billion in 2022. In order to cover these deficits and provide an additional liquidity reserve, Slovenia's net public debt, which will have to be fully repaid within three years, will increase by an additional EUR 10.2 billion. As a result of the health and economic crisis, the budget revenue at the expense of taxes in 2020 and 2021 will be reduced by 2 billion. As a result of the epidemic, public health and pension registers have also been hit. The Health Insurance Office has serious liquidity problems, exhausts surpluses from past years and funds from the contingency fund, it is daily forced to commit to the state Treasury. According to the last evaluation of the Institute, this year's decline in contributions and rising costs in health care are leading to a current health deficit of € 140 million, which cannot be covered by its own resources. In addition, there is a growing deficit in the public pension fund, which will have to be covered by the budget. In 2021, the government estimated EUR 1.38 billion, and in 2022 it estimated EUR 1.29 billion. If we want to maintain the public health and pension system and other pillars of the social state, new tax inflows will have to be provided which will not burden the weakest, but the income and wealth of the rich and the profits of corporations. But Janez Janša's government is embarking on a different path; a path that, at the expense of tax exemptions to the rich and capital, will further exhaust the already underprivileged state budget and impoverish public, social and development infrastructure in the long term. Instead of looking for new, urgently needed tax resources, of which there is no spirit or hearing in the budget documents, she set up the Strategic Council for Debarcation under the leadership of Ivan Simic, which proposes a reduction in taxes on capital, a reduction in income for the rich and a reduction in social security contributions for the rich by introducing a social cap. Finance Minister Andrej Šircelj has already announced the introduction of Simič's first action: the abolition of the luxury tax in motor vehicles. This is just another senseless measure that testifies to the completely missed priorities of the Janša government. At the time of the second wave of the epidemic, which has completely escaped control, we urgently need budgetary resources to strengthen health capacity to increase the number of beds, to improve the technical equipment of hospitals, to recruit new staff, to systematically strengthen public health infrastructure, to network the homes of older citizens and other pillars of the social state. But all of this is of marginal importance to the government of John Janša. The government is particularly concerned about the fate of a handful of luxury vehicle owners, so they propose to abolish the luxury tax, which will further impoverish the state budget for the rich at the expense of new tax breaks. In addition, during an alarming budgetary crisis, it plans additional absurdly high expenditure on completely unnecessary weapons, which will not serve the security of citizens, but the interests of foreign arms corporations. In Levica, I do not oppose an increase in public expenditure to address the health and economic crisis, but we insist that these expenditure must be directed urgently towards projects that strengthen public health, the social state, create new jobs and address the material hardships of the weak. It is unacceptable, however, that at a time when more than 9,000 100 public rental apartments are lacking for the most vulnerable and 12 thousand pensioners are desperately waiting in line to be admitted to overcrowded and financially and humanely malnourished elderly homes, public funds are being made available to foreign corporations from the military industry. In Levika, we will therefore oppose the Government's Framework Decision on the preparation of budgets in the country sector for the period 2020 to 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The positions of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u188	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a decree amending the Decree in the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020 to 2022. The proposed amendment allows for higher expenditure of the state sector, the state budget and municipal budgets over the next two years, i.e. in 2021 and 2022. This will allow an adequate level of expenditure to stimulate recovery after the fall of economic activity in 2020, this year, and to tackle the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic, as well as to prevent and control the spread of covid-19. Our priorities are very clear; helping the economy and helping citizens, especially all citizens. Pursuant to Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted a decree on the framework for the preparation of state budget for the period 2020 to 2022. The decree sets out the target balance and the maximum possible level of expenditure of the State sector for each financial year in 2020, 2021 and 2022, as well as the target balance and maximum possible amounts of expenditure of each cash public funding in those years following the cash flow. Due to the exceptional circumstances created by the covid-19 epidemic, on 11 May this year the National Assembly adopted an amendment to the decree allowing for higher expenditure of the state sector as a whole, the state budget sector, municipal budgets and pension funds in order to respond rapidly to the situation in 2020. On 23 September 2020, the National Assembly adopted a second amendment to the regulation on work relating to 2020, which further amended the target balances and maximum expenditure levels for the state sector and the state budget. However, the maximum level of expenditure on medical bills has also changed. A change was needed as the uncertainty of the macroeconomic environment made it very difficult to set parameters for the assessment of public financial policy this year. These amendments provided funds for the implementation of measures related to the control of covid-19 infectious disease in 2020. When preparing a proposal to amend the state budget for 2021 and the state budget proposal for 2022, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to recast the current Decision on the framework for the preparation of the state sector's budgets for the period 2020 to 2022, this time in the work relating to the years 2021 and 2022. The proposed amendment allows for higher expenditure of the state sector, the state budget and municipal budgets over the next two years. This will allow an adequate level of expenditure to stimulate recovery after the fall of economic activity this year and to tackle the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic, as well as to prevent and control the spread of infectious covid-19 disease. Fiscal policy, ladies and gentlemen, will also be encouraged in the coming years, and we are pleased to see this in New Slovenia. Measures aimed at promoting economic activity will have a significant impact on public finances, and a temporary derogation from fiscal rules is also allowed at EU level in 2021. It is also not possible to plan full compliance with fiscal rules in 2022, as the rapid limitation of fiscal incentives could have a negative impact on recovery. The proposed proposal for a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budgets for the period 2020 to 2022 is, of course, also accompanied by a proposal for amendments to the state budget for 2021 and a proposal for a state budget for 2022. I express my support for New Slovenia for the above-mentioned decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, everyone, Mr. Secretary! The budget framework for the next two years, which sets out the maximum amount of expenditure of the state sector, for 2021 22 billion 160 million to 24 billion 900 million, the difference is thus 2 billion 740 million, and for 2022 from 23 billion to 24 billion 950 million, the difference close to 2 billion. The state sector is both municipalities and both cash registers, and the main budget of the country itself is from 10 billion 455 to 13 billion 520, so the difference is more than 3 billion. For 2022, from 10 billion 750 to 12 billion 650. So, the difference is nice – also close to 2 billion. This is already the third proposal for a framework this year with which the Government proposes an increase in the expenditure of the country. However, any increase in expenditure without a simultaneous increase in revenue is only an additional debt. As a result of such planning of government expenditure, Slovenia will record a record deficit in the state budget and also a record public debt. While the projections for the following financial years indicate a reduction of this deficit, the projections offered by the Government are not to be relied upon, as is the Government itself, because the circumstances are uncertain, but are still planning an optimistic budget. Why can't we rely on this projection? First, because of the unpredictableness of the epidemic itself. Secondly, because most of the revenue expected to reduce the deficit in the future depends on the receipt of European funds. The receipt of these funds for Slovenia is certainly not a fact but depends on the approval of the European Commission, which rejected the first document. In addition, an agreement has been adopted within the European Union that makes the allocation conditional on respect for the rule of law. This is opposed by Poland and Hungary, which have many examples of the rulings in Slovenia. That is why the political moves of this government can also deprive us of these expected European funds. Third time. The deficit can only be reduced by limiting expenditure and increasing revenue, which will not be feasible without strong economic activity. The increase in these planned expenditure is due to measures to combat the covid -19 epidemic, which, according to the Government in the first year, is expected to mitigate the decline in economic growth by 15 per cent, but this does not mean that the companies receiving the aid will actually survive and reach the same level of activity as before this epidemic. It is also important to take into account the fact that in 2022 – I hope that there will be no more exceptional circumstances, that this will not be exceptional – and then the budget will have to be coordinated over the medium term in accordance with the fiscal rule. We also try to be optimistic in the SAB. Given the use of the country, it is wise to increase when there is a crisis when the demand for the population falls. And this increases some activity economically and keeps society active. However, we note that the measures taken, despite the record indebtedness of our health system in the second epidemiological wave, did not bring the expected resistance to the epidemic. Similarly, they did not prevent the growing unemployment and shutting down of a number of companies. The enormous debt and measures to ensure economic growth in Slovenia, without salary cuts and pensions, are now the responsibility of this government. We expect from it decisions that will ensure at least 7 years of continuous economic growth at the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek in 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Ambassador, Madam Members! In the market economy, the information role of macroeconomic strategies, forecasts and policies is crucial. The government, the central bank and other institutional authorities shall communicate their objectives, basic management parameters and the system framework to stakeholders. Good timely and reliable information is the key to business adaptation, lower transaction costs and optimal economic results. A successful economy needs two: competition and flexibility on the one hand, social sustainability and inclusion on the other. It's a reference framework. The Framework Decision on State budget preparation for the period 2020 to 2022, the amendments to which are the subject of today's treatment for 2021 and 2022, was first adopted on 25 April 2019. On the basis of the latest forecast by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, economic growth is expected to fall by 6.7% of gross domestic product this year and then by 5.1% in 2022 by 3.7% in 2021. The depth of the fall and the size of the growth will depend mainly on the duration of the epidemic and the recovery of the international environment. Umar's forecast predicts a drop in investment in fixed assets by 13 per cent this year and an increase by 11 per cent next year and 8.5 per cent in 2022. State consumption is expected to grow by 3% in 2020, contributing to the smoothing of the decline in economic growth more than, for example, in the previous crisis, when state consumption increased by 2.5% in 2009. Over the next two years, national consumption will increase by 1 per cent and 1.3 per cent. A smaller drop in gross domestic product than in some other economies is no proof of the strength of an individual economy. When such major global crises occur, the movement of gross domestic product does not depend on the power of the economy, but mainly on its structure and dependence on the global market. Countries where the main economic sector is tourism, or countries that are major exporters of both raw materials and industrial products, will see the biggest decline in gross domestic product. The proposed amendments to the decree are necessary due to exceptional circumstances which raise the ceiling on expenditure of the state sector, the state budget and the expenditure of the municipalities. The country's sector spending is increasing by €2 billion and €740 million to €24 billion and €900 million in the coming year and €950 million to €24 billion and €950 million in the year 2022. The increase in expenditure in the sector is mainly due to an increase in the expenditure of the state budget, which rises by €3 billion and €65 million to €13 billion and €520 million in 2021, with an increase of €2 billion and €945 million to €12 billion and €650 million for 2022. It is also envisaged to raise the maximum expenditure for local units of the state sector, according to the municipalities, by €80 million to a total of €2 billion and €440 million in 2021. What is the key characteristic of the crisis we are dealing with? Significantly, it is not an internal shock either on the supply side or on the demand side, but rather an external shock mainly on the supply side and partly on demand. Therefore, it is necessary not only to maintain liquidity but to preserve businesses, employment and income as much as possible. The fiscal authority must assume obligations to employees to pay their salaries if employers cannot do so. This is how companies are kept. Businesses and all other economic operators need to be maintained not only in financial terms but also in legal and production terms, because the advantages of collective experience are otherwise lost, which are particularly important in terms of productivity. Members of the Desus Group note that the current Slovenian authorities have coordinated and complementaryly implemented the overlap of all the measures just mentioned, so we will unanimously support the proposed amendments to the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u194	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues! We have before us an amendment to the draft decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022. In view of the exceptional circumstances created by the covid-19 epidemic, the National Assembly has already adopted two amendments to the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022 relating to 2020, and these amendments relate to the years 2021 and 2022. The amendment of the decree will allow for an appropriate level of expenditure to stimulate recovery after the fall of economic activity in 2020 and to deal with the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. There is an increase in the ceiling of the expenditure of the state sector, the state budget and the municipalities, and an increase in the target balances of the state sector and the state budget. In 2021, the ceiling of the expenditure of the state sector increased to EUR 24.9 billion, the state budget to EUR 13.5 billion and the municipalities to EUR 2.4 billion. In 2022, the ceiling for expenditure in the sector is slightly higher than €24.9 billion and the state budget is slightly higher than €12.6 billion after the cash flow. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Prime Minister! The purpose of the decree, which was adopted on 11 May 2020, was to require or give a more rapid response to the emerging situation of covid-19, of course in 2020, by increasing the expenditure of the state sector as a whole, the state budget itself, the municipal budgets, pensions and health bills. In view of the change in the situation brought about by the second wave of the epidemic, this is already the third amendment to the Decision amending the objectives of the balance for 2020, 2021, 2022. Unfortunately, the budget documents show that the increased expenditure during this period is not only intended to deal directly with the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic, but also to prevent and control the spread of communicable diseases in SARS-COV-2. The budget documents show that all ministries, despite a significant decline in income, all receive more, especially in addition to increasing public spending, are increasing investments, including those that, both directly and indirectly, do not increase productivity and growth in the economy during this period of crisis. The government is already this year with the assumption: Everyone gets more, set up a meter of consumption extremely high, too high. In doing so, we must be aware that higher spending does not only come from covid-19 expenditure, but is about raising spending as a whole, which goes beyond realistic options and leads Slovenia into a headless increase in public debt. This raises the question of when the growth of the economy and thus the revenue in the state treasury will catch up with the growth in consumption. So when will we be able to talk again in Slovenia about a balanced budget, when will we be able to talk about a real budget that will cover current expenditure with its own tax revenues. Unfortunately, the government has not presented this in its budget documents. Both the European Commission and the Fiscal Council warn the Government to define more precisely the expenditure or their planning, in particular those which are being used indirectly with currently poorly and poorly planned projects for, of course, successful pumping under recovery and resilience mechanisms. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if ever, it is now extremely important how and why we will allocate these funds to recovery instruments that must ultimately affect economic growth, jobs and unemployment reduction. GDP growth or added value is the basis for long-term sustainability of public finances. Thus, we must direct all possible resources from the European mechanisms to this growth of the economy. Of course, it is not unexpected that the European Commission and the Fiscal Council again require the Government to complement its budgetary documents with the preparation of a plan for long-term sustainability and the balance of public finances. Since, of course, we have not received all these answers and explanations from the representatives of the Government and because the budgetary documents lead to a headless debt, we will not support the amendment of the decree in the List of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u198	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, one good day! Since the introduction of the fiscal rule, the budgets of all public cash registers have been designed to determine by means of fiscal equations the maximum allowable consumption of individual public finances. Those amounts shall be fixed by a decree and the total maximum amount of expenditure thus determined shall be taken into account in the subsequent budget cut. In this way, the fiscal rule ensures that only the medium-term sustainability of public funds is used. In this way, the budgets of the last five years have also been drawn up since the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act. The purpose of this rule is to first limit the maximum total consumption and then allocate the available resources. In recent years, the procedure has often been reversed. Only after the budgetary appetites have they been satisfied have common applications been identified. This was also one of the reasons that led us years ago to the radar of the guardians of public financial sustainability. As sparrows have said, because of the viral pandemic this year and next year, the fiscal rule does not apply. This means that it is not necessary to take all these restrictions into account at this time, since the State must act countercyclically and through public spending to promote a halted economy and mitigate the social consequences of the epidemic. The government has thus drawn up a budgetary framework without taking into account fiscal constraints. Moreover, it did the same for 2022, which the Fiscal Council points out is not certain that the specific epidemic circumstances will still apply and can be used as an excuse to temporarily derogate from fiscal rules. In such circumstances, the preparation of the fiscal framework does not play the same role as in times when fiscal rules need to be strictly adhered to. In these circumstances, this framework does not actually play its role, as the maximum permitted use is determined only after the budget lines have already been allocated. This also makes a divorced sense of pre-definition of available resources. It makes very little sense to adopt such a decision under such circumstances. Since we accept it on time after we have already allocated the budget money for the two coming financial years, this decree does not even play a symbolic role. It is only a formal determination of the amount of the planned total consumption of individual public cash registers. Therefore, in the SD Group of Members, we believe that the debate on limiting maximum consumption has already been exhausted in the debate on the draft budgets for the next two years. It should only point out that the competent authorities have not yet turned on the green light for an unbalanced budget in 2022, and therefore there is a high risk that the budgetary framework will have to be adopted, as well as specific budget lines in the coming years. That is why we will abstain from voting in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u199	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There was no amendment to the mother's work on the motion for a decree. The decision on the motion for a decision will be made today, in accordance with the time frame followed by the meeting, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item — Second draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022 under the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Andrea Shirtzle, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u200	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Allow me to explain that the implementation of the proposed Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 and 2022 is an urgent condition for the implementation of the budget for 2021 and 2022. There is no doubt, however, that the public financial rules for a period in which the conditions for exceptional circumstances have not been met require the preparation of budgetary documents to take into account the public financial precautionary principle, which compels budget preparers to take into account risks that could have a negative impact on macroeconomic stability in the planning and assessment of the volume of revenue and expenditure, as well as on the long-term sustainability of public funding and the extent of the country's debt. In the given situation, where the covid-19 virus epidemic presents a new and unpredictable situation, derogations from these rules are allowed. Moreover, it is the duty of the State to continuously adapt to such situations. The way in which adaptation is shown is also that measures are being taken to minimise the burden on the population and the economy as a result of the epidemic. According to the proposed law, it provides for the financing of measures related to the epidemic in the same way as it was carried out in 2020; therefore, through the general budgetary reservation. This ensures full transparency in the use of funds, as they are used exclusively for measures related to the epidemic or to the smoothing of the consequences of the epidemic. It is true, however, that when planning the budget from the budget documents, it is not possible to determine which measure linked to the epidemic will be used, since mostly all the funds are planned on one sub-programme. However, since the proposed law lays down strict rules on the intention to use these funds, there is no doubt that these funds cannot be used for anything other than those measures adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with intervention laws. The proposed law contains all the content and other elements laid down or envisaged by the Public Finance Act and the content laid down in the sectoral laws. According to the above, the extent of the country's debt and permitted guarantees and the extent of the public sector's debt at national level is determined in a given year. The law also regulates the special powers of the Government and the Ministry responsible for finance and the managing authority and other direct users for the implementation of the budget of the State for 2021 and 2022. The proposed law also sets out the extent of the commitments that budget users may assume in the current year and which will fall into payment in the coming years, as well as the use and recovery of European Union funds, prepayments, financing of institutions, specialities in the management and sale of assets, the average of municipalities, the preparation of financial plans for direct users of the budget, the employment policy, the establishment of an annual allowance for pensioners. The proposed law differs from the current regulation in the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021. Firstly, as regards the inclusion of projects in the country's development programme plan and the changes to these projects, this is mainly related to the possibility of replacing integrated funding sources with European funds. For 2021, the volume of appropriations in the general budget reserve to finance covid epidemic measures is not limited. The Slovenian Health Insurance Office can provide additional funds from the country's budget for expenditure related to the epidemic. An annual pension allowance is being fixed, which is increasing compared to 2020, and payment of this allowance is foreseen at five levels. A percentage of the regular reconciliation of pensions of 2.5 per cent shall be determined. The work relating to projects where integrated funding resources will be replaced by European funding requires unused rights of use of integral resources to be redeployed to the budget reserve for the financing of natural disasters. Given the fact that the proposed law allows the implementation of the country's budget for the next two years, I propose that the honourable Members and Members support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 48th urgent meeting on 14 November this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law on the implementation of the accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, qualified applicants have tabled 11 amendments and 4 amendments for new articles. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the Minister of Finance provided clarifications on the solutions that would allow for the current and smooth implementation of the country's budgets for 2021 and 2022 and the financing of measures related to the mitigation of the consequences of the epidemic. He explained that in the planning of the budget documents, all the funds associated with the epidemic were planned on one sub-programme and the proposed law laid down strict rules on the purpose of using those funds which could not be spent on anything other than those adopted by the National Assembly with intervention laws. It further clarified in detail the content of the draft legislation provided for or envisaged by the Public Finance Act and the content laid down in the sectoral laws. He presented all the essential elements in which the proposal for a law differs from the current regulation. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups to Articles 2, 71 and 73 remove the comments contained in the written opinion. It noted, however, that the amendments for the new 81.a, b., c. and c. no. proposed further amendments to other laws and highlighted the contention of provisions which, in a law which should govern only the implementation of the budget, amend and supplement other laws. After a brief discussion on the amendments tabled, the Committee decided, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, first on the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to the eighth Article and adopted them, the amendments of the SDS, NSI and Desus to the 60th Article and the new 81st and 81st Articles and adopted them. The amendments of the opposition MPs of the Left, the Sab, the Social Democrats and the LMŠ by 30th, 50th, 65th and 81st Amendments have not been adopted by the Committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, in which amendments are incorporated, is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the amendment is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u204	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022 introduces a protector for budgetary coverage of the deficit of public health treasury. Due to the outbreak of the epidemic, which has been completely out of control to the Government, less contributions to compulsory health insurance can be expected on the income side. At the same time, the cost of healthcare activities will be significantly increased as a result of measures to control the epidemic. Therefore, in Levica, we have been tirelessly repeating for several months that the introduction of a safety guard is absolutely necessary for the preservation of public health. The government solution is a step in the right direction, but it is insufficient, since the introduction of the fuse is only temporary and limited. In addition, the Government introduced the fuse only for 2021 and provided only budgetary resources to finance hospital fees and other costs incurred by healthcare providers due to the control of the epidemic. A comprehensive and systemic solution will therefore be needed in the future. As we provide a pensioner, we should also provide a health-care provider from the budget, as it is only in this way that we can defend and provide accessible public services to all in health care as universal and inalienable rights, which, in our Constitution, should be. In the future, the country is obliged to cover the entire deficit of the health allowance by budgetary means, just as it covers the pension deficit each year. Otherwise, we are promised to tighten the public health situation, the most likely cuts in the basket of rights and the privatisation that this government is forcing. Our second criticism is that the Government has not done enough to curb poverty and inequality among pensioners. This year's pensioner allowance, which will be provided in ZIPRS, is not sufficient. According to STIZ data, 46% of all pensioners received a pension of less than €600 in 2019 on one side, which is not enough to cover the minimum cost of living. On the other hand, 3,000,300 or a poor percentage of pensioners received pensions of more than 2,000 euros. According to Sursa, 69,000 people over the age of 65 lived below the poverty risk threshold in 2019, of which 48 thousand were women. In Levika we have drafted an amendment that would at least partially ease this situation and begin to change the relationship between poor and rich pensioners. For 2021, the government is proposing the harmonisation of pensions by 2.5 per cent, which means that, on the one hand, a poor pensioner with EUR 300 will increase his pension by only EUR 8 and on the other hand a pensioner with EUR 2 000 500 for EUR 63 or 8 times more. Contrary to the government proposal, we therefore propose in Levi that pensions increase to all equally, in order to raise every pensioner's pension by €18 this year. Regrettably, this amendment was not adopted by the Coalition on the Finance Committee. At the same time, the Government has included some completely unacceptable provisions in the ZIPRS. The minimum transparency of budget spending, for example, requires budgetary consumers to be able to assume financial obligations in the current year only if they are intended to be spent in the budgets adopted, and the Government has, for example, included in the ZIPRS a provision that this criterion for investment contracts in the Slovenian Army does not apply, thereby providing a Bianca menu for the purchase of 780 million weapons. Therefore, the government bill, which plans absurdly high expenditure on arms at the height of the epidemic, does not take into account the state of pensioners and does not adequately address the critical health situation, cannot be supported in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary. From the current regulation in the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021, the proposed law differs in some of the following points. I'll also describe them briefly. Firstly, the average of municipalities is increasing. The average according to the bill we are considering for the financial year 2021 is 628.20 euros. Let me remind you, the Charles Coalition has set it at EUR 588,30 for 2021. In 2020, our coalition set it at 623,96 euros and this has already been realized. The average of the municipalities for the financial year 2022 will also be 628.20 euros, which is the starting value and it is important that these averages for 2021 and 2022 were also aligned with the representative associations of the municipalities. The average for 2021 will therefore be 4.24 euros higher than the one we have set for 2020 and also realised, and almost 40 euros higher – 40 euros higher – than the one set by the Sharč Coalition for 2021. This is the average amount proposed by Nova Slovenija and the Slovenian Democratic Party for 2021 as a compromise proposal for the implementation of the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021, but unfortunately we did not succeed at that time. We have therefore fulfilled the promise, which is also enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, for 2020, this year, as well as for 2021. The following amendment is significant; a percentage of the regular reconciliation of pensions is set at 2.5 per cent. This will happen in January 2021. Let me remind you, in December, there will be an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions of 2 per cent, 2 per cent, bringing together about €94 million to all pensioners. Come in. An annual pension allowance is fixed, increasing by 5 euros compared to 2020. Let me recall, because there has been a lot of criticism that we are not paying attention to pensioners, that in this year, given the December extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, pensioners will receive a good €471 million in addition to regular pensions, and that is also the case. Come in. The scope of the general budget provision for the financing of covid-19 measures for 2021 is not limited. The following amendment – The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance can be provided with additional funds from the country's budget in times of exceptional circumstances due to the epidemic. The funds will be provided to the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance if health programmes are implemented. Eligibility for funding will be determined by the Ministry of Health. Due to uncertain conditions, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is also allowed a short-term debt of up to one year. Let me remind you, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia can already be in liquidity debt within the calendar year, in accordance with the applicable rules. Come in. Changes in budgetary resources on budget lines for the implementation of the recovery and resilience mechanism in the current plan of the development programmes for the coming years may be coordinated without limitation. The proposed regulation aims to accelerate the absorption of the European funds that Slovenia has acquired to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic. This means that the source of funding for projects originally envisaged as an integral source of funding can be changed. However, only those projects that meet the conditions for obtaining European funds will be subject to change. I announce support for New Slovenia to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u208	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The accompanying budget law for 2021 and 2022 brings some positive solutions. The law introduces changes that will allow for greater flexibility and efficiency in the area of European funds. The Health Insurance Office will be provided with additional funds from the budget for unforeseen expenditure caused by the epidemic to health care. The proposed changes bring higher amounts of the averages received by the municipalities, the payment of the annual pension allowance at five different levels, the harmonisation of the pension and thus its growth of 2.5 per cent. In the SAB, we tried again to provide free protection masks to pensioners with a supplement, along with some opposition parties, but this time there was no compliance with the coalition. For the next two years, the government has reserved special powers in the law regarding transfers of funds, debt and reserves. Everything in connection with the epidemic. The original text of the law was supplemented by amendments by coalition parliamentary groups and proposed several interventions into other laws. This law on the implementation of the budget changes other laws which have nothing to do with budgetary implementation. This is considered controversial because the Constitution prohibits the referendum on ZIPRS and therefore the amendment of other laws to the ZIPRS constitutional ban on the referendum is inadmissible and excessively prevents the referendum will. In the SAB, we draw attention to the risk of the recurrence of the ULJF all the time when the adoption of the budget documents giving rise to a record commitment; and this is precisely the purpose of Article 81. This aims to further reduce the funding for student organisation, as the same government has allocated to them with the ZUJF in 2011. We wonder whether it is ideological and political punishment of student organisations and students. Such a drastic reduction in funds threatens the independent functioning of an organisation that has always been critical of every government. In the SAB, we have proposed to delete this harmful provision, which allocates 2 million euro to student organisations in 2020 while calling on all parliamentary parties to reconsider and support our complement. In the SAB Group, we will not support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The budget as a way of financing projects and the common public good is a responsible decision on what is planned and what is advocated for. A stable scale and predictable consumption structure require caution in addressing excessive generalisations and restraint in oversimplification. The law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is a necessary and direct condition for its implementation, according to the legal nature of the state budget. The aim of the law is to legislate solutions that will enable the running and smooth implementation of the budgets of the State and the budgets of the municipalities in 2021 and 2022. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that local self-government is an extremely important state subsystem. The financing of the development tasks of municipalities, and of those that prove to be investment expenditure or investment transfers of municipal budgets, must be an integral part of the regulated funding system, that is, the part co-financed by the state budget. The fundamental objective to be achieved is to respect the principle of compliance of financial resources with competences. All available sources of local authorities should be in proportion to the powers and tasks laid down in the legislation. The essential added value of the proposed law is therefore to establish a higher average for the financing of municipal tasks. The financing of local affairs is inseparably linked to competences, to statutory tasks and powers or to the rights and obligations of the municipalities. In relation to representatives of representative organisations of local self-government, the current government coalition has changed the established authoritarian practice so far. The average is thus no longer determined administratively but in cooperation with the agreement. The new average will be higher by 4.24 euros compared to this year and will amount to €628.20. This year's average rose to a total of €39 for the year 2019 for 2020. Realistically, it takes into account that the last one was the average of €573.50 and 54.70 euros. The bill, as usual, also specifies the amount of the annual pension allowance, will be paid in June. There are also new classes of pension levels dependent on which the annual allowance is fixed, and it is important that none of the pensioners will be in a worse position than last year when receiving the annual allowance. The new classes are determined in a way that adapts to the planned harmonisation of pensions, which will prevent beneficiaries from jumping to a higher class, which would mean a lower annual allowance. In the Desus Group, we advocate such a distribution of payments because the initial purpose of this form of social transfer has changed from a recreation allowance to a total social adjustment whereby pensioners are forcibly compensated for too low pensions. There are more pensioners with the lowest pensions and fewer pensioners with higher pensions because the annual allowance cannot be defined as a right on the basis of the contributions paid. Already in January next year, after almost 2% of December's harmonisation, there is an even more important increase in pensions. This proposal for a law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia sets out a 2.5% regular harmonisation. The level is estimated by the Desus Group as it is even slightly higher than the calculated, according to the autumn forecast of economic trends of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which is the basis for the calculation. The proposal for the implementation of the budgets for the coming years will be supported by Members of the Desus Group. As political realists, however, we expect that both budgets will continue to experience a balance and change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u212	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! In view of the legal nature of the State budget, the implementation of the law governing the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is a necessary and direct condition for the implementation of the budget and its implementation. The key solutions to the Budget Implementation Act, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party, are to set the average for municipalities for both years of €628.20, representing 4.24 euros more than the average for this year. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the financing of the local community is of great importance; it is important for the development of the local community, which also represents a higher standard for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The law also provides for regular and extraordinary coordination of pensions. The proposal also sets out an annual allowance for pensioners, which is increasing compared to 2020. It will be paid at five levels: pension recipients of up to €225 will receive an annual allowance of €445, pension recipients of €525 to €630, pension recipients of €305, pension recipients of €630 to €745, pension recipients of €745 to €900, pension recipients of €195, pension recipients of €900 will receive an annual allowance of €135. In the SDS Group, we will support the draft law on the implementation of the budget for the years 2021 and 2022.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, chairman. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The law ahead of us sets the maximum amount of the country's debt for 2021 at 6.73 billion and for 2022 at 4.22 billion euros. If we deduct the debt repayment costs, in these years, including this year, the Republic of Slovenia will be in debt under the government of Janez Janša at EUR 10.2 billion, or EUR 9.3 million per day. In addition to the extremely high amount that will be repaid by the next generation, we are disturbed by the fact that we have not even learned in the course of the proceedings where the borrowed funds will be directed and how they will be returned. This is what the Fiscal Council has already pointed out at this year's budget rebalancing, and this is how it warns now, while the Minister of Finance continues to act very carefreely. Then there is Article 30, which allows the purchase of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wake of the budgets of the coming years, which is based on a law that has not been adopted at all. It is a law that will devote 780 million dollars, including the purchase of armor. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment to the LMŠ Committee on Finance to prevent this, because this is an inappropriate and irresponsible act in the light of the circumstances. If anything, then the health crisis we are in is an indication that purchasing armoured and other combat vehicles in the current situation is certainly not a priority. If anything, for example, we need new infectory clinics in Ljubljana and Maribor, not armory clinics. The amendment was rejected by the government's parties. You obviously have different priorities. We also do not agree with the fact that this time the scope of State guarantees does not guarantee the resolution of the housing problem of young people. In January 2020, the proposal for a law that would give young families access to their own real estate was publicly considered, but the government of Janez Janša did not decide to continue to address this issue. This amendment of ours was not adopted on the committee either, you thought it was more important to find funds for the Museum of Slovenian Independence. You obviously have different priorities here, too. But as in your custom, you've also put a few things into ZIPRS that I don't belong to. Article 81, for example, extending the time limit for the transfer of capital investments from SDH to the Republic of Slovenia. We will not discuss whether this is appropriate for you because of the demographic fund, but we have warned in the LMŠ that this type of amendment is contrary to the principle of legal certainty, which makes the rule of law imprecise, while at the same time it is a provision that does not fall within the law governing the implementation of the budget. As recorded by the Constitutional Court in its decision of 28. 9. 2015, the ZIPRS must contain only the content related to the implementation of the budget, as it is not permissible for a referendum to be held against this law. Therefore, as drafters of the law, we should take into account here and should not introduce into the content of the law provisions which are not relevant to the implementation of the budget or are not subject to this law. In view of all of this, given the unreasonable high debt, some 100 million for armoured personnel instead of addressing the housing problem of young people and mixing with state property, we will vote against the proposed law in the Marjan Sarca List.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u216	Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, once again a lovely greeting! Each budget shall also be monitored by the law on its enforcement. It identifies all the specificities and procedures necessary for the implementation of the budget, as well as any specificities and exceptions that enable the normal functioning of public systems. As a rule, however, it always contains important provisions on the employment, financing of municipalities and the pension and health system, and the debate is often in-depth and quite difficult. It is not surprising for this year's crisis budgets as a result of anti-Korona measures if the law on the implementation of the budget is also similar to the government's other approach. Like any anti-Korona package, there are always some content that has been planted, and there is no exception to the law on the implementation of the budget. This time, for example, members of the right-wing coalition are trying to add an article to withdraw funds from the student organisation. It is difficult to understand that the coalition, which, in its own words, is so generous with tax money, would once again gain savings from students. It is particularly difficult to understand this, after the government has maintained generosity everywhere else, and suddenly it is concerned about the loss of student income caused by its own actions. To a great extent, she prevented the students from working, rewarded them with 150 euro supplements, and tried to move them out of their dormitory at the time of the outbreak. The contents, as mentioned in the article, are clear evidence of retaliation and targeted indemnity, which lie beneath the level of many government measures. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the law, which executes a record-breaking budget, is difficult to establish a stable content that can be supported at all budgetary concerns. Additional planted content only weakens the confidence that the government has a sincere intention to help. For many groups, self-employed, culturers, scientists, holiday workers and now students, it is increasingly clear that government measures are not only intended to help but to punish. Punishing for criticism, disobedience, or simply because you seem to be a suitable target for collecting political points. We will oppose the content of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We also express our support for the opposition's amendments, which are trying to improve this budget law at least slightly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, once again a very nice greeting! The Act on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022 regulates the content relating to the implementation of the future two budgets. The extent of the country's debt and permitted guarantees and the extent of the public sector's debt at national level shall be determined in each year. The law also regulates the special powers of the Government and the managing authority and other direct users for the implementation of the budget of the State for 2021 and 2022. In this context, the powers to entrust the Government with a financial stabiliser are particularly important. The government has prepared a bill on the implementation of budgets for the years 2021 and 2022, which we support in the SMC Group in particular due to the following elements of the law. Projects will be included in the country's development programme plan, which is particularly important in terms of the possibility of replacing integrated funding sources with European funds. For 2021, the volume of appropriations in the general budget reserve for the financing of covid-19 measures is not limited. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance can be provided with additional funds from the country's budget in times of exceptional circumstances due to the epidemic. Once again, the average for municipalities is increasing to EUR 628.20. An annual pension allowance is fixed, which is increasing compared to 2020 and payment of this allowance is foreseen at five levels. In addition to December’s extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, pensioners can expect a further 2.5 per cent regular harmonisation by January next year. In addition to the proposed provisions in the Law on the Implementation of Budgets for the next two years, we have prepared an important addition to the law in the SMC Group, which builds on the solution adopted at the meeting of the mother labour force in the work relating to veteran war. With the addition adopted at the meeting of the Committee, the age limit for obtaining rights belonging to war veterans under the War Veterans Act was reduced and the right to air and medical treatment, which was withdrawn from them by the ZUJF in 2012, was restored. In the SMC, we support this solution, but we estimate that the right must be restored or guaranteed to all three categories of beneficiaries under war laws; in addition to war veterans, also to war disabled persons and victims of war violence under the same conditions and to the same extent as the legal regime before the entry into force of the ZUJF. We do not see any rational reasons why this would also be denied to the other two categories. The remarks are certainly infrastructure projects that are important for the development of our country and individual municipalities, especially since Slovenia is not equally developed and without developed infrastructure it is not possible to imagine the development of the communities of the Republic of Slovenia. For all these reasons, we will unanimously support the proposal for the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 and 2022 in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 73 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] I'm guessing yes, I'm asking for an application. The word is Aljaž Kovacic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u220	Thank you, Chairman. First, the question for you, is a general discussion allowed or should we be allowed to go wider in the first article? [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u221	Yeah, yeah, the debate. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u222	Well, then, thank you for your word, chairman. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! All the time, in all the CAP in the List of Marjan Šarca, we also warn in the budget that there is again injustice on the part of young people. I'm going to start with the ZUJF, which means that Janša's government, which introduced it and actually took away the future for young people, for generations, and we'll never be able to do that again, so to speak, to these groups, to return. Why I am talking about the ZUJF, you will see in the end, because in this law on the implementation of the budget is also an article linked to the ZUJF, there is an 8-year-old issue, which was also signed at the time of the previous Janša government. This government likes to brag about what it has done for different groups in Slovenia. She did it for young people to give them 150 euros in one of the CAPs, although we have in fact all alerted them to what this means, that 150 euros are needed, according to various studies, by young people studying about 500 euros in order to survive. In view of the fact that it has been more than half a year, we know if we share this with €6.150 – what does this mean at the monthly level? It is said that this government likes to boast that it has given 150 euros to young people. On the other hand, what did this government actually take from young people? She actually saved a lot of money for them. Although the Constitution speaks of education, has closed their schools and has not provided them with quality education, it is the right education to be as far away as it should be for the quality of education to be at least the same level as it would have been in classrooms. Then she actually drove them out of college homes, even though we know that students have a contractual relationship in student homes and that it's a similar thing to having a lease with the owner of the apartment. So it's a similar thing as if the state says if you have a lease in a block, you just have to move out tomorrow because of an epidemiological picture. We also saw in the budget how much she was saving on student vouchers. Thus, many students are through subsidised diet and although restaurants operate and can deliver home, we must be aware that all those restaurants that have had the opportunity to eat with them do not have the possibility of delivery. So, very few restaurants have this option, I think we're talking about millions of dollars here, how much the country has saved only on food in young people. In fact, it is unheard of that young people are apparently not to eat any more. The matter that I am about to talk about and which is once again an egg in this law on budget implementation is said to have banned their work. So, a lot of things have closed down, young people have lost their jobs, there's actually no student work. Why was I talking about ZUJF in the first place? Because Janša's government in ZUJF taxed student work very heavily in 2012. And in the agreement with the Student Organisation, she also signed the way this share is then financed. There's one more thing I'd like to point out in my students. I think that even in 2015, young people are again in the country and have started paying in the pension register. Young people spend more than 60 million euros a year in pension allowance because they are actually solidarity with the elderly and thus contribute to their pensions. And now what exactly are you doing, reverend government? In fact, as with the NGOs, with all those who are critical of you, although youth organisations are far from being critical of you at this time, even though you have not actually given them anything, you want to make them financially impossible, and in the next phase actually destroy them, because then there will be no criticism. Therefore, the distinguished representative of the Government, I am only interested in one question. What does this article do in the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia? Who thought of that?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u224	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. And I'm going to tie myself to Alaska's debate. Indeed, what does this article do in this marriage? Because when we talk about our future, we have our children, our young or students, our students, our primary schoolmates, in our minds. And in these cases, when it comes to taking on these most vulnerable groups, even at this time of coronaryism, I don't think they really have anything to look for in certain laws or even in ZIPRS. Of course, taking on a student organisation at this time is also incomprehensible or even when this coronary crisis is over, in fact, recovery will also be very important and it will be very important for all of these organisations to have the same funding opportunities as at least before, so that they can reenter a new world, I hope better, more solidarity, and when we talk about solidarity, in fact, it is just the word of the day in reality. Young people have already shown at all during this time of coronary disease or epidemics that they know what is solidarity. They also bear a very heavy burden of this coronary crisis by simply learning from a distance or by teaching from a distance, and given that we also need to realize that they already bear a great burden — and even older ones, as mentioned earlier — it is right for all members of different laws, whether it is this law, or whether it is another law, or the PKP — whatever our future may be, I do not think we should afford any reduction in costs at the expense of our recruits or children or adolescents. I also come from an environment where Alaska is also coming and we know that Styria is currently, in fact, the whole of Slovenia is in crisis, and it already feels this social part of the crisis. But in Styria, I think that even for the potential of a higher or even stronger response, and people in Styria fear that this social bomb that they have experienced or experienced will come again. And when it comes to whatever region I come from, although we are basically all representatives of all citizens here, I still have something to say to this eastern part of Slovenia or Styria. Please, let us be even more careful about this part than in general, because it is simple, there have been major social problems or unemployment has been high, and there are also some problems, and I hope that attention and focus will be on solving these problems, not creating new problems. In view of the fact that the Government also likes to boast that there is so much and so much money in some common malah, I hope that it will also be distributed evenly according to all the items that need urgent and that we will be satisfied with this social and solidarity that we are all talking so much about today. Yes, unfortunately this fact is no longer some mirage or fictional thing, the economic crisis and the social crisis, as well as the health crisis that we currently feel the most, has already begun. It will now need to be tackled in concrete terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign in. I'm on my way. The first one has the word Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honourable representative of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! We have before us ZIPRS, the Law on Budget Implementation, and as in other laws, let's say the CAP, if you want to compare it, full of some non-injurious people and provisions that don't belong there, of course - pests pardons. This modus operandi of Janez Janša we have seen when Janša is in power, but it is taken by young people; it is taken by those whom the same government has always stressed that our future is, that they are what we need to invest in, but all the time it is taken from this little. Before I jump on a topic already mentioned by one of my colleagues, allow me to touch the zipRS already. ZIPRS is one specific document and sets out both the extent of the debt and the State guarantee permit and, in fact, the extent of the public sector's debt in the country for a certain period, i.e. each year. This law is not substantive and must, by the Constitution and by the legislation which has been adopted, only contain those provisions which apply what I have mentioned earlier. Here I will hang myself on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which has clearly warned you in many articles that you are in violation of these provisions. Let me just read one sentence. “This amendment is contrary to the principle of legal certainty, because it introduces impreciseness into the legal order, the provision certainly does not fall within the substance of the implementation of the budget.” And these provisions, a respected coalition, are quite something. So you push everything back into ZIPRS, because otherwise things don't go through, everything that doesn't belong there. Now, to connect myself to students and young people, that is to say, some generation that I belong to myself. The SAB party has tabled an amendment to the procedure, which deletes paragraph 81 from the law. This is an article that retakes young people; it takes money that allows young people and students to cooperate, to act, to organise themselves and to prosper. This is taken by the government of Janez Janša, respected. In the LMŠ we will definitely support the SAB amendment for two reasons. The first is that I have already mentioned that you are throwing things into ZIPRS that do not belong there, which many of you are also warned about from the legislative and legal branches of power. Why? Because we know about ZIPRS that it is not possible to call a referendum against this law. And as if this is not enough for you to do so in other laws, to limit this constitutional right to citizens and citizens, you are now introducing these things into this law, so that we should be silent – but we will not be respected! The second reason is that this article is, in fact, a completely unilateral move by the Government and more than obviously a minister of NSI, so here, a respected secretary of state, I am joining the issue of a colleague. Explain who remembered this, and who drew it into this marriage. So you want to take away funds that are intended either to organise some socially beneficial projects, blood-giving actions – these students have a lot – thus helping citizens and citizens, from working brigades, to help people with disabilities not to talk about helping young families. Of course, the government has not aligned this action with young students far from it. That's what you agreed to under the table. This is also indicated by the invitation sent to you by the Student Organisation of Slovenia, where it says that you have completely overlooked them. Again! As if it is not enough that the government of Janez Janša in the PKP has in fact not paid any attention, the only measure, and this was unique, was 150 euros for all students equal. At that time, we clearly warned you what a mistake you were making. Indeed, many students and youths with 150 euros could not help much. Many work and pay for their studies, pay for their lives, pay for their apartments, a dormitory, and just 150 euros from this point of view does not help them much. But you shut down the dorms, you ban the work from the students, and then you expect them to bow down to you and say, great, two more million take us out of this item. Yeah, it won't work. This is not the way we do things, and we are actually dealing with it the day after the International Student Day. It's really ironic, isn't it? And you know, when it's necessary to contribute $60 million to the budget register, then students and young people are good, but when you have to do something for them, you just don't care. It's a disgrace, a national disgrace! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The word is from a representative of the government, mag. Christina Steblaj, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! However, these implementations must be responded to, regardless of the fact that the Government has not transposed this Article's basic proposal into the National Assembly, but it is true that such an amendment has been reviewed and seems meaningful to us. First of all, we're not taking anything. Approximately a million resources, a little less, a little more, are allocated annually to the Student Organisation – not to students, to the Student Organization – for the difference they do not get from concessions from the student work. Which means that students who work and a certain part of what they deserve are student organisations anyway. With the ZUJF, a provision was made that up to 80 per cent of the amount received by these student organisations in 2011 should be made to provide additional funds for this difference. These additional funds have been distributed rather untransparently over these years. What is now stated in this article, a new one that has actually come in with an amendment, provides that it is limited to the amount it is expected to pay this year. This is again an estimate of slightly less than a million funds, so much will be received by the student organisations in the following year. It is further determined that student organisations must report for these funds. You know that everyone who receives funds from the state budget, including non-governmental organisations, submits certain reports on what they have done with these funds, and here we are also dealing in a comparable way with student organisations. I just have to respond to this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Replica, Nick Prebil, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u230	I'll respond to your performance myself. Dear Secretary of State, this is a complete hoax! That you speak, no, no, you don't take on young people and students, you take on the student organization – so who sits in the student organization? Martians, perhaps? Students and young ones, right? And now you're talking about distribution, see, the state is obliged to cover this matter in accordance with the law. In the government of Marjana Šarca and this National Assembly confirmed this, if I am not mistaken, with the majority that the National Assembly has been forced to exercise better control of the Student Organisation, even the Court of Auditors has been involved in this and these reports have been submitted. Not now that you, because you don't do your job, you say, let's let them take this and take this away from them, but let's just give them a break, because that's good for the country, right? No, this is very bad for the country because I told you before, but the student organisation and the students and the student councils in colleges are working together to prepare an enormous number of events that help students as well as other populations. As I told you, a lot of blood supply actions and a lot of events. Of course, there's some fun around, because that's logical, but it's not entirely out of these resources. And don't say that because it's not true and it's a delusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u231	Aljaž Kovačič also has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, I don't know what you are by profession, but still, you're sitting at the Treasury Department, and if someone gets less money at the end of the day, you say we don't take anything from anyone. This is really your mathematics, as you say, we didn't take anything from young people, we gave them 150 euros. Then forget that you told them not to work, that you threw them out of college homes and that you closed colleges and secondary schools. But everyone's educated, everyone's got more because you gave them 150 euros. But before that, one student made 500 euros, but no, you took 500 euros away from him, and you gave him 150 more, so now it's for the better. I'm saying, I don't know what you're up to in education, but, from a man who's in political office at the Ministry of Finance, at least primary mathematics would expect him to know.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u234	Dear Vice President, two matters. First of all, I ask that you read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly clearly again, which discusses when and how the replica is used. The last two performances were not replicas, but young exhilarating colleagues had the opportunity to continue with the discussions to tell them what was bothering them. What happened wasn't a replica. However, as far as personal injury is concerned, there is a mode of extreme left-hand operation in the implementation of the LMŠ. They say how they hurt others, how they scare, but they do it themselves. Madam Vice-President, please protect the interests or integrity of guests in the National Assembly, in this case Madam Secretary of State, and remind your young colleague, especially the last contractor, not to be offensive to guests in the National Assembly. Despite the fact that it is not important in this National Assembly who is according to what kind of education, but such nonchalant and insulting conduct is unacceptable in my opinion. I therefore propose that you define yourself publicly for the second time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Yeah, it's true. This was not like a replica, and if you want to discuss it in any way, you will have the opportunity to reapply. [[adverts from benches]] Mr. Miha Kordish has the word. [[adverts from benches]] Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. Now, Mr Vice President, if this wasn't a school case of replica, then I don't know what a replica is. [[adverts from benches]] I don't know, the real secretary of state was just saying something to my performance, which is not true, and I demanded a replica. [[advertising from the hall]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u237	Please, I take your word! I take your word for it. Read Article 69. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, chairman. Health care is a fundamental human right for an adulterer who is in his health. It should not be linked to income or any other circumstances, at least not in a country called a social state. Why, after all, do people pay taxes in Slovenian society? In order for the government of Janez Janša to buy 780 million euros in arms from these taxes, which are hard-earned and hard-paid, certainly not. In order to be able to rely on the infrastructure of social solidarity, the first among them is public health, for sure and with joy. But this joy is less every day. It's been on the ground for the last two decades. Because Slovenian public health is constantly being hit by such and different lobbying and political interests after privatisation. Slovenian public health is deeply undernourished. From public sources and from the budget, we devote an incomparable amount [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u239	Mr. Kordish, I apologize. Members, please do not disturb the speaker in his debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u240	Yeah. For our public health care, which is quite robust and very well held and saves us, protects us from the epidemic as well, we give inadequately less from public funds, both by percentage and in absolute amounts as well as by countries with which we would otherwise like to go up. Unfortunately, this latter is no longer as self-evident as it may have been a decade ago, given that Prime Minister Janez Janša is fraternizing with the international extreme right hand and is placating Viktor Orban. We do not want everyone else in the Slovenian public to do so, however. The Scandinavian countries are, in principle, those to whom we like to compare ourselves, including Austria. All these countries have higher percentages of public investment in health systems and health care than Slovenia has. In short, the malnutrition of the Slovenian public health system, both in its service work and in its investments, is not the result of the current government, but is the crown of twenty years of the ongoing process of dismantling the public health system. And we've come into a situation where we don't have enough doctors because there wasn't enough specializations from the Medical Chamber. And we have a situation where hospitals are erected walls, ceilings are falling down, windows are not narrow, what corridors are too narrow to even turn beds into them, such as the case of the Infectious Clinic in Maribor in the first wave, and so on. Celje General Hospital, for example, has rooms in 150 years old. A living disaster! If public health is seen as a right for everyone, as a fundamental human right to be guaranteed by the State, then it cannot be argued by every single authority that there is no money, no money for investment, nor can it be argued that the public health department is not full enough to finance a greater scale of health services, checks, interventions and so on, which could reduce waiting periods. If we take serious health care for all citizens and citizens as a right, then the public health system must not be a hostage to capitalism crises. Only to change from right to market goods. Self-payment services are on the rise because there are such long waiting periods. This is particularly evident in the dental sector, which is the most privatised or the most indented sector in our country. Surprise, surprise! There is also the highest level of self-payment and people have to pay and pay out of their pockets for the urgent medical care they need, even though they are already giving their fair share of taxes and contributions in order to provide them with such care and to fund the state. Plačnik cadra, material, service is a public health treasury, Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. As much as this public cash can be allocated to individual public health institutions, such as hospitals, and in agreement with them, the general agreement is called, to plan how many interventions will be paid, how many interventions will be most likely to be carried out. Now it's a problem. If the public health department does not have enough money, however, despite the health needs of citizens and citizens, not all will be in line when they should, and when they could, even though spatial and human resources are available. This also hides part of the reasons for waiting periods and for the deterioration of the provision of poor health for citizens and citizens. I'm telling you, he's making excuses. Here we have a whole bunch of other anomalies that the state should prioritise, but unfortunately the political class doesn't want them, from the doctors of amphibians to the abolition of supplementary health insurance, to the overpayment of medical supplies and so on. These anomalies all bear some common name and stem from the same conceptual problem that we can call legalised corruption. It is said that the invasion of a private interest in the public interest, the intrusion of capitalism into the public health system, which should otherwise be governed by solidarity, and the fact that it exists there for the needs of citizens and citizens, and not for someone to earn badly on the needs of people. Even if all these forms of legalised corruption and the interests of the medical and insurance lobby that we are driving, we push a little aside, the fact remains that Slovenia, as a state of health care, does not have sufficient resources. The budget does not finance the public health treasury under any of the same systems as financing, say, a pension fund. Why is it that even in the biggest crisis, pensions are still, in principle, uncut, unbalinated and not juggled with? Because of the fact that the pensioner has a built-in security guard that, if he has not paid enough from the contributions, the State has reached out, opens the budget purse and adds the missing funds to ensure that all pensioners receive their pensions on a specific day of the month. In 2019, the pension budget contributed EUR 965 million, and EUR 1.38 billion was provided for pension protection for 2021. What we are proposing in Levica is what we are asking, which is also a long-term proposal and initiative of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, is to equip the public health department with a cashier with whom a pension box is already comparablely equipped. So that it doesn't happen that any authority or any bureaucratic apparatus within the healthcare system says, "Well, you know, we don't have enough money to finance your operation, and we don't have enough money to fill all these capacities that we could otherwise do." Since there would be no means, then they would not work and people would wait in line, their disease would get worse and, if possible, some worse form of disease would even get ahead of us. As I said in the introduction, if we take health as a right and not as a market commodity, then this is a necessity, then public health cash must be protected against any possible crisis of capitalism. If we do not do so, we can monitor what is happening in real time over the past few months. There are many initiatives that need to be reduced because money is not enough for everyone. The public health treasury was first with the 2020 budget rebalancing, but now also with the draft budget for 2021 and 2022, the literal hostage of the government of Janez Janša, who is squeezing the scrotum and does not want to allocate a sufficient amount of resources to it. This includes the direct lobbying interests of the medical and insurance lobby and the ideological agenda of the government of Janez Janša, which is the privatisation of the public health system. And how much easier and better to achieve this if we do not provide sufficient resources to public health care, a public health treasury that is a payer of services, materials, personnel and so on, we leave the food well fed, that waiting species are longer and then we start with a propaganda operation of convincing people: “Look how the public health system does not work, let us privatize it.” This is a very low-level agenda that we have been following since the government of Janez Janša set out and for this purpose has very gravely abused the Coronavirus epidemic. Public health bills receive insufficient funds, not only that they have been fed before and before the epidemic, but also that they receive insufficient resources for work within the epidemic and that the government does not give it adequate attention because it does not want to do so. At the same time, there are ideas in the media that a basket of insurance rights, more or less of all citizens and citizens, should be reduced. The real people continue to pay contributions to the cash register, while the services they receive from this are smaller, they get less on the basis of their money. And thirdly, instead of further capitalising public health treasury and protecting it from the shocks of capitalism following the Coronavirus epidemic, it devotes EUR 50 million over health and finance standards of services and all of this to a completely separate special call to shorten waiting periods, which is intended not to public health treasury but to private private health service providers. And we know that public health is the one that protects us from the epidemic, but in private, the one that kneels, fails, poof, all over the line, breaks like a bubble. No, I'm not talking about the Slovenian situation or just about the Slovenian situation, I'm talking about the world situation. Everywhere in any country in the world, private health was the one that immediately collapsed at the first outbreak. And now, instead of strengthening it because of the first wave, but only at the top of the second wave, the public health system is being abandoned, it is trying to further impoverish it, it is trying to break it, and it is being subsidized at the same time by individuals beyond funding standards and by guards, which ensure that patients receive a quality service. These same guards, after all, protect the standards of the medical profession itself. This is where we talk about you having a license, you don't have a license, and your license is granted by the Medical Chamber. So I'm not talking about the problems that only I would have seen, and I'm talking about the fact that the country is spending 50 million euros on private operators past their own health care providers, but at the same time, we have a health treasury that records a minus to a minus to a minus due to the Coronavirus epidemic. Now the entire public health system is largely dealing with the covida-19 epidemic, which is, after all, right, but it is not right that individuals with other diseases and other diseases remain behind, especially those of the worse, cancer patients. And, of course, that's not going to get any better. It's not gonna get any better than itself. A step towards protecting the public health system in and after the epidemic against the privatisation appetites of the authorities and the medical and insurance lobby, so that it can ever be better and people will come to normal care free of charge, is to provide public health insurance with budgetary resources. So, if there is a lack of funds in the Health Insurance Office, the state enters and covers the hole. And don't tell me we're talking about how the crazy left-wing socialists would be doing a minus in the budget again. The issue is that health is a right, and if we treat it as a fundamental human right, it must also be given adequate financial attention. And this public health budget protector, that he is not a hostage of capitalism crises, that he is not a hostage of market fluctuations or of every government, we have in fact proposed in Levica long ago. There is probably no Member here who would not have remembered the sage about the abolition of supplementary health insurance, which we brought to the National Assembly for the first time in the history of this country exactly by the socialists, just us in Levica. Our original proposal also included a budget finance guard for the health treasury in the same way as the pensioner's treasury. Regardless of the epidemic, regardless of the economic crisis, pensions are not cut, they are not reduced, as the state has given the pensioner who pays the pension, the guarantee and the insurer that the pension money is always available. The same must be done with the public health treasury. The government of Janez Janša has decided to do exactly the opposite, to use the epidemic to blow public health to the best of its ability to feed the private. I think that in this debate I have shown how very socially harmful this is, and why our amendment to the law on the implementation of the budget needs to be supported and adopted, because public health is protecting it from being brought to its knees by an epidemic or political handshake as a system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'm going to refer to this 73rd article myself, which speaks of the health department. The medical department is overloaded. We all know that. However, at a time when we see that, when we adopt budgets for 2021, 2022, we have a large deficit when we find that revenue does not follow expenditure, it would be even more important to come across, and otherwise we will help with other measures to improve this area. Above all, I would like to draw attention to the waiting species we have so much to mention. We have mentioned them thousands of times, we have considered them, but we are not able to reduce this area in any way, in order to bring this range of waiting species to this level so that patients, true citizens and citizens, are not at risk, given timely or unfair treatment. We are giving huge funds for this, including intervention, 40 million, 17 million in this period, which I am also in the National Assembly, but there is no real impact. Now, anyway, we don't know what it's going to be like, because we all hear that because of leaving treatments and making it harder for the doctor, things are waiting. On the other hand, we do not know how to ensure that we approach organizationally in health care and eliminate almost the unacceptable practices that are happening to us. We cannot rationally use the resources, equipment and even the resources available to us. I'm only going to point out two cases when we can solve a lot of things quickly, and we don't know that. An example of Kranj and ultrasound. For almost two years there is no expert, a specialist who can work with this ultrasound. There is no such thing in one of the largest cities in Slovenia. By the beginning of this year, when final guidance is given to a doctor from Serbia, we are already in the second half of November, we do not know how to get this doctor or doctor to Slovenia, so that he can then sit down and use this ultrasound to reduce the waiting lines. All patients from this area now have to go elsewhere – to Ljubljana, to Jesenice, and there cause new waiting types, congestion. Of course, there is a duplication of treatments. Many, as was the case when almost one patient died because she was not treated in time. That's one example. And there's a lot of cases like this. Why don't the Ministry, the leadership know why we can't make better use of it? Another example is the opposite. But where the frame is, there's no equipment, and there's equipment that's two million. It is a gammacamero that allows for 36 different tests of the diagnostics used. Koroška has an old camera that is practically no longer usable, 31 years old, it's an old fiche. The ministry and the government do not see that such small interventions could be done and greatly helped to resolve such matters. You practically don't understand that. On the other hand, I don't know what millions we're giving, we're using, and we're practically doing things without effect. There's a little bit of movement here. How can we resolve this so that the ministry, the minister and the other responsible can resolve these matters immediately? It's a central information system, which is also like some kind of goat snake. Not only in health care, but also in other areas, agriculture and so on. This is why I say this in particular because the European Union has specifically pointed out from these structural funds that the funds for this, for IT technology, are green. It is said that we should take advantage of these things, but I am afraid that at ministries and others they cannot approach and take advantage of such good things. After all, look, we already have the back of the information system, e-health. For this e-passenger we have made a whole revolution, an evolution in this area, we should only upgrade it. We have a central patient register where all the data is. It needs to be upgraded. The analogue country of Estonia was able to build this in two years. We should go this way. I don't know if we want to, and the last law on patient rights is that it's being partially resolved, and then these costs are incredible. On the other hand, you can't believe that in 2020, or if we look at what was happening to us this spring, the Ministry of Health and Government cannot obtain data within a few months, how many fans are in Slovenia in these 15 hospitals. Clearly, this does not mean that something is seriously wrong. And here I point out that more needs to be done organisationally, but not just some millions to look for from economic growth taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u243	Thank you very much. My colleague Vojko Starović has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Your Honor! The basic objective of this law, which is ahead of us because we have already gone through budgets and proposals, is to legislate solutions that will allow the country's budgets for 2021 and 2022 to be implemented in an ongoing and smooth manner. It's about the state sector as a whole. This includes the congregations, which also regulates the pension and health bills, if I may say so. All financial public funding shall be applied. The purpose of this, because the tides and outflows are not harmonised, the revenue, expenditure is not harmonised, it does not take place, so it also allows some temporary funding, borrowing of credits, bridging, guarantees and so on. The law is necessary to enable budgets or all expenditure on public cash financing to be pursued and implemented. In this marriage, I must say hello to the fact that it introduces a lot of flexibility. A breakthrough has also been made by this law so that, if the money runs out, the health department can also be financed from the state budget. The previous government has split up, the Left has cancelled support here, now that we are comparing the current situation, these two are completely different, and I think that those debaters who compared this were actually unfair and unfair. In the previous government there have been several years, the predecessors of this government have been fighting to reduce public debt to reduce interest costs. Did you know that we paid over a billion interest a year in some years? Do you know what a billion is and where you could spend it? A billion is huge. Well, now that we are in a situation where we are in the bag, as we have already said several times in the SAB, we are in debt because it is necessary to save the economy and the social sector, so that it lives on and is preserved in life, so that we can get the quality out of this in the next period, so that we can have a basis for the outcome. But in this transformation curve that the economy is talking about, and today there was a lot of debate, or giving for cannons or butter, I say that we have forgotten something. It's not just for cannons and butter, it's also for investments. That is why I also welcomed in my previous speech that I like that we went to investment, because if the economy can't and if the population doesn't invest, the country is called in such times, which can be less indebted. It is true that about 700 million dollars is planned for interest, which is once again a lot of money. By reducing and making a budget surplus by reducing public debt earlier, we are actually increasing it. But we have to scale it up carefully. Now we're just wooding, now we're all sharing, sharing, sharing, sharing -- what do we share? From money we don't have, from income that's questionable, we share in debt. And we're starting to do it this way now. You have to keep the pre-election promises, the ruling SDS party said that instead of €110 for tolls, we will pay €55 for tolls. When the suggestions were to reduce because people cannot travel because they are municipal prisons, nothing has changed. They promised 500 Euros of Christmas, and it's not a big deal. These are promises, but we must not promise empty because we must act responsibly to the country. If we are in debt, let us take more productive responsibility for things so that we can get out of this crisis. Promises we made. We haven't given anything. This money hasn't even been paid yet. We are in debt, we are in a great fucking debt, and we must be careful that this does not lead us into destructive waters and that we will again pay a billion 300, 10% of the budget. We used to pay up to 10% for interest. I don't know who it's in the best interest of or why I'd defend it. Accusing the previous government of not giving up on these matters, which is, and this is from a loan, from money that it doesn't give, and things it promises, and we made savings that could reduce public debt. I think we need to make sure that the public cash registers live for the good of the people and for the good of the economy and for the good of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk? It's still an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. First he gets the word of his colleague Yuri Leprechaun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u246	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, secretary of state, nice greeting! ZIPRS, for a short time, is called the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the basic document determining or prescribing how the budget for 2021 and 2022 will be implemented or implemented. We all expect the budget to be as liquid and uninterrupted as possible. We are repeating ourselves in June, the fact that 2020 is truly a unique and very complex year. Under such strict conditions, a plan had to be drawn up to allocate the resources provided most rationally and fairly. As we know, we are actually only here to allocate the resources we have acquired to management. Thus, we are Members here to try the wisest, according to the most expert knowledge, to use this money. So we really don't give anything, but the money we have ready is trying to spend as rationally as possible. Under such strict conditions, it was necessary to draw up a plan to allocate the resources provided most rationally and fairly. Budgets ensure the strengthening of the economy and thus additional jobs. They respond to the needs of the health system, provide increased care for the elderly and also care for the weakest and most prosperous of all citizens. There are some very important differences between ZIPRS for 2020 and 2021 and now proposed for 2021 and 2022. Let me count them. It is possible that the integral resources of the funds may be replaced by European funds. If these funds are replaced, these resources must be redeployed to the budget reserve intended to finance natural disasters. In exceptional circumstances, additional funds may be provided to the Health Care Office from the State budget due to the epidemic. It is also stated that the volume of funding for the control measures for the COVID-19 epidemic is not regulated under the heading of the general budget provision. One of the key values of the proposed law is the higher average for municipalities, namely for the years 2021 and 2022 628.20 euros. I am also very pleased that an agreement was signed between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, represented by Minister Boštjan Koritnik, and the Presidents of the Associations of the municipalities of Slovenia. It happened that there was no signature at all, and I was in the negotiating group myself, and since we did not sign, the congregations received even a smaller average. Let me say that the average of municipalities in the last ten years has fallen first and then again. Since 2012, when it amounted to around €550, it has then fallen to €536 and then to a minimum of €522 in 2016 and again started in 2017, starting at €533, 2018 at €551, 2019 at €574, and now at €628.20, which means a big jump of €54. For us Members of the Desus Group, of course, it is very important that ZIPRS also sets the amount of the annual pension allowance to be paid in June of next year, also in the five classes that are being maintained. It is also important to know that none of the pensioners who pay the annual allowance will be in a worse position than last year. In doing so, I would like to stress in particular that the payment system in several classes is significantly more linked to social justice than in two classes. This year, according to December, a 2% extraordinary reconciliation of pensions will be paid and a 2.5% regular reconciliation of pensions will be established with ZIPRS in January next year. With the measures and proposals reached, Members of the Desus Group can certainly be pleased. Nevertheless, we still have an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions for the remaining 3,6 %, originating and remaining due to the previous economic crisis that took place with Zuyfa in 2012. But I am also pleased that we will support the amendment of the war veterans. They re-establish the right to medical treatment, which was also seized with Zujf in 2012. However, the age limit for obtaining legally defined rights of war veterans is also decreasing. For all the above reasons, I will support the budget and ZIPRS for the years 2021 and 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Member Nick Prebil has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u248	Thank you, Mr Vice President. I'd like to respond to a few things from before. Before the other Vice-President presided, I raised my hand several times for the procedure and did not see me, but I waited, out of correctness, for the fellow Members who had been notified further, to apply once again. Article 70 of the Rules of Procedure states that each debater shall have the right to reply to the debate of the other debater if it relates to his debate. My response to the Secretary of State was exactly that and a complete replica. If someone in this room doesn't like this replica, it's his problem. The other thing, the pitiful comments and some misdirection. I think that you are some of the last ones to speak of any insult in this national assembly, because you often point out what we are, where we come from, what we come from and how we come from. I'm glad you think I'm an uplifting Member, but I certainly don't come from the far left. Please, who believes this? To get back to the zipRS. As it is said, there are things I do not belong to: some capital companies, taking money to young people and students, guaranteeing the state, which is of course the point of ZIPRS, not to mention NRPs, where there are projects that are not included and so on and so on. The whole problem is that the government is obviously getting away from things at multiple levels, not just this one. That's why you throw into marriage what doesn't belong there. I've already told you, we're going to deal with the sixth PKP law and there's a little sea of things in there that don't belong there. And here again. What should be in the budget is not. But okay. There was something about solidarity earlier. I agree, we must be solidarity in these times, these are times of crisis. But with all these billions – the country owes an additional EUR 18 billion, and you now want to convince me here that 2 million is to be taken away from students relevant to the resolution of the state crisis. Now I ask you once again, Secretary of State, you have explained to me why you included this, and I have asked you clearly who remembered this. Please tell me whether you insisted on bringing this article into law, which was not in the original proposal of the government. You know, I don't care what's in the hundreds of proposals of the government, I'm interested in that proposal that comes to the National Assembly, and it was in that proposal. I ask you what is the difference between 2012 and this year. The financial picture is kind of like a bad one, we owe today much more than we did then, but except for one, the same parties were at the government, the same coalition partners. But then it made sense to bring it into Zuif, and now we're going to delete it. And at the time, I started not to talk about any amount of money, from everywhere. So you say one thing, you do the other, and I'm really worried about that. As a matter of fact, young people, if any, are the young future of every country. Many of those who go to school today will someday sit in this hall, one day they will also sit in the finance ministry, in other positions, and they will someday make a destiny for us, you, when we are at peace. It seems really unfair to me that young people are treated the way they are treated in this country. So much for me today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u249	Thank you very much. There's a MEP with a word. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u250	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Look, we all know that each budget reflects the priority of each government and we also see in this budget cut that the political priorities of the government are being exposed. I'd just like to continue here with my colleague Nick Prebil. In the SAB, we first noticed and tabled an amendment to delete paragraph 81. We're talking about an article that takes funds from a student organisation. Once again, he's taking funds. But he takes them because he's financed from his students' work. Students were unable to perform their student work this year, and as a result, they have lower incomes. To say that students are not being taken is then, in this sense, a perfect distraction. But it is not possible to overlook the fact that the student elections have won options that are not close to the ruling party, and I also understand this as punishment and speculation. Once again, I take that as punishment and conjecture. In the SAB, we will certainly take the stand and also vote together with the opposition's colleagues to delete this 81st paragraph. As I have already said, this year and also the future budget will be record-breaking. When we look at what the priorities are, we see that there are essentially no positions and one thing that has been highlighted in the biggest government party before the elections. Such a thing is also a Christmas Eve for 500 euros each year. This item is not in the budget. Of course it's not because it's unrealistic. However, I would like to say what we could have done in the SAB because we were aware of the real constraints and the financial situation. We have ensured that pensions are regularly and exceptionally coordinated. We raised the dose rate from 57 to 62.5%. We have provided free cross-border transport for pensioners over 65 years of age, veterans of war and disabled persons. We also wanted this good practice, tested by more than 150 000 users, to be transferred to Slovenian cities where public passenger transport is carried out, and the coalition did not listen. Now that the cod epidemic and the movement between municipalities is limited, we have put forward a proposal to extend the validity of vineyards in a proportionate proportion. When we look at this poster, that they're supposed to be too expensive, we haven't seen a proposal today to lower the price of vignettes from €110 to €55, as it was intended and promised before the elections. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u251	Mr Reich, we are talking about the amendment to Article 73, which speaks of the provision of ZZS funds and short-term debt. Please limit yourself to the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u252	I will. I am discussing a little more broadly than all the predecessors have discussed. But it has to be taken into context. VAT. Given that the state has the possibility of practically unlimited indebtedness, we have not seen a reduction in VAT as promised. The budget is higher, VAT has not decreased. And that was promised.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u253	Comrade Reich, please limit yourself to the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u254	However, as far as health care is concerned, we have always been advocates of strong and affordable public health. We have always maintained and had the view that there is a need to solve health problems, that there is a need for order in health care, to arrange waiting lists, to increase health care resources, and, in fact, it is not clear to me how colleagues in the government today thought that health care could handle matters with less money. Slovenia's health target is 8% of GDP, the EU average is 10% of GDP, and Austria is 12%. If someone had previously advocated lowering taxes, lowering the burden of work, without increasing incomes, and solving health problems, he had a change of heart. As far as all these amendments and ZIPS are concerned, I also see a number of shortcomings in person, so I will certainly not fail ZIPRS.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Member Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u256	Vice President, thank you for your word. In some ways, I have been involved for more than 15 years in the preparation of budgets at local and national level. I have a feeling it's always the same. The coalition speaks one thing, and the opposition denies and says something of its own. But this matter in parliamentary democracy must probably be the same. When the new government came together in March after the emergency, because the former ministers and the Prime Minister had resigned, no one was aware of the difficult situation ahead of the new government. There was no idea how wide this outbreak of the new virus would be. The extremely difficult situation requires a parallel adjustment to health, social and other socio-economic conditions, which we are doing to a large extent. After a strong increase in gross social product since 2014, this year fell as in the worst crisis in 2009. While budgets need to adapt to very unpredictable difficult situations, both budgets are very optimistic for 2021 and 2022, they are also highly developmental and investment-oriented. They are geared towards recovery and strengthening economic resilience, largely responding to the needs of the health system, and maintaining a high level of concern for people's well-being. I'm going to stop at one of the most vulnerable groups, which is in any crisis, maybe the one that's medical in the first place hit even more on the shoulders. These are our Slovenian pensioners. It's only right that I start with a few facts. According to a statistical review of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, the current average nine-month pension data is as follows. And I'm going to tell you a few things, and there's nothing wrong with hearing them, and then there's some comparisons. The pension provided in this nine-month data is 555.76 euros. The average age is 687.83 euros. The average old-age pension without proportional portions of pensions and partial pensions is 785.84 euros and the average old-age pension with 40 or more years of retirement without proportionate portions of pensions and partial pensions is 871.81.81. In Slovenia, there were 625 thousand 463 pensioners at the end of September. Of this, there were just over 460,000 pensioners. Let me remind you that the previous crisis, which was significantly more mild, affected the pensioners in their coordination by as much as 8.4%. This is attempted by regular coordination and so far we have managed to reach a debt of 5.6%. In December, this is expected to be an extraordinary harmonisation of 2%, which is exclusively due to us who have insisted on doing so. If they remember a little in the SAB, what kind of proposal did they make? What we have given is once more than was proposed, 6.5 euros. This should then reduce the matter to 3.6 %. In our parliamentary group, we will advocate that in the following year – if not in the next year – this issue will also be brought to a close within two years, and commitments will come to zero. In February this year, the account for January and pensioners with average pensions will increase by 3.2%, and increased by 1.5% for extraordinary harmonisation. Such increases were dictated by favourable trends in gross social product growth, wage growth and prices of living needs. The first important thing that happened to the most vulnerable recipients of pensions, disability benefits and older farmers through anti-korona measures this year was the solidarity supplement. The solidarity allowance was granted to those who had a lower pension of 500 euros, 300 euros, those who had a pension of between 501 and 600 euros, and those who had 601 and 700 euros received 130 euros. We will therefore advocate that even in the seventh anti-korona action, those groups that are most vulnerable will receive a certain part of the means to make it easier for them to survive. In December, as I mentioned earlier, pensions will rise by 2% again. Immediately in January, we expect a new pension raise. The draft law on the implementation of the budget under consideration provides for a regular harmonisation of pensions and beneficiaries of disability. If I play a little bit of numbers, I'll tell you what. Someone thinks it doesn't mean anything, but it doesn't. If the pension is higher by 25, 28 euros, the annual pension will be 303,36 euros. If the average age pension is higher than 31.29 euros, the annual pension will be 375.48 euros. If the average age pension is higher than 35.75 euros, it is 429 euros. The average retirement pension of 40 years or more without proportionate portions of pensions and partial pensions will be higher by 39.66 euros, representing 475,92 euros. Someone's gonna say, that's not enough. But remember, at these altitudes, pensions are also increasing for everyone in the next period. In order not to do wrong, however, we are advocates in the Desus Group to receive the pensioners’ annual allowance in the fifth grade. Why? Because we think it's more social. Next year everyone gets, no one gets hurt, black is a low amount, everyone gets 5 Euros of supplement. In order to balance the matter, it is said that whoever has a lower pension will receive a few more annual allowances. But those who have a higher pension will receive a higher level of coordination. We will advocate that in future pensioners, regardless of the crisis, they will receive supplements to make it easier for them to survive the fall of their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Procedural. First, my colleague Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Vice President. I don't know. Please enlighten me. Mr Reich, in his discussion, you reminded him to talk about Article 73. Article 73 speaks of the provision of funds to the Health Insurance and Short-term Debt Office. My colleague Jurš, but not to be misunderstood, I absolutely agree that you said that, and this is a great thing. But you can tell me whether all other Members can also speak in general in this article, or whether only and only Mr Jurša can speak in general in this article. Rajh’s colleague said well that we were having a general discussion or that we were talking in general and more broadly. Now I don't know. Now there are some, I'll say, double criteria. So just tell me whether I can discuss this article more broadly or just have to limit myself to this 73rd paragraph of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Yeah, I'll give you an answer right away. He spoke of pensions or the provision of funds for these matters. While Rajh was talking about VAT, which has nothing to do with it and he was talking about students, the 81st article, where it will be, if we get there today, and we will, a special amendment to this work. I suggest you all limit yourselves to the amendment that has been tabled. Comrade Jurš spoke in this context, not entirely but mostly. However, he did not discuss any other content that was mentioned. Comrade Bandelli, you also have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u260	Thank you, President. My colleague Muršič just took the words out of my mouth. I'd like to ask you for instructions. The former Vice-President, who chaired the meeting, gave us the opportunity to talk about all the articles. So I was a little surprised when you said we were only talking about Article 73. Now I ask you, given that my debate, which is now referred to in Article 81, if I may speak of this article, is whether you will stop me as a colleague of the Reich. Please, if you'll answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u261	Well, look, the colleague who led the meeting before me, Branko Simonovic, said that he is putting to the debate Article 73 and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. I suggest you all discuss Article 73. The following article, which you will be able to discuss, is article 81.c, which has been tabled by the coalition groups of Members and is followed by article 81.c, which has been tabled by the SAB. I suggest that, for the public's sake, that they understand what this is about, focus on the debate on the amendment to what you have prepared. I don't think it makes sense for you to say everything from A to Z right now, if we're going to put everything into consideration, just like we did in paragraph 73. All right, buddy Bandelli?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u262	Yes, you interpret it your way, the former vice president interprets it his way, we stick to what you said. You're there now, and only when it's 81st. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u263	I think my colleague Branko Simonovic ordered this at the time of the meeting. I suggest, colleague Bandelli, if you do not have a prepared debate on this amendment to sign out and then wait for your amendment to come in order, so that there will be a direct link between the amendment tabled and the content of your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u264	Here.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u265	Okay. Thanks for understanding. Nick Pretbel, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u266	I'm just going to fill in, Mr Vice President, a procedural question. Hold on, what my colleague Simonovich said is the same as what you said. However, Vice-President Simonovic's colleague Kovačič then asked clearly, as is in accordance with parliamentary practice, if we are to discuss all articles in general in Article 1 or not, and said that this allows for discussion in general. I only speak because some strange parliamentary practice is being introduced. I really can't imagine that this National Assembly is going to work a little differently every time, given who's going to sit in the Chair. At least I'd like you and the president to make a deal with the vice presidents. I have no problem discussing only the article that comes next. Only that this is always the same and that it does not change regardless of who sits in the chair. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u267	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Little shame is that the first amendment has been tabled under Article 73, not Article 1. Article 1 of each law is usually the one that allows for a slightly broader discussion. We are now at the end of the content somewhere, and these provisions, which are amended, but special provisions, are not in that sense general. I therefore propose that you limit yourselves to the amendment to a specific article in your deliberations. My friend Bandelli checked out. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. He does. Anyone besides my friend Kordish? I give the floor to Micha Kordiš, and then we will conclude the debate on this article. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u268	Thank you for your word, chairman. To the extent that I have been able to experience parliamentary practice in the last six years, it is discussed somewhat more broadly about the law to which the amendments are attached, not only in the case of article 1 but also in the case of the first article which is open. It's at the point where the first amendment has been tabled. In this case, Article 73 of the Law on the implementation of the budget. This has been Parliamentary practice in these six years, which I am here. However, it appears to be new in the same way that it appears to be written on the new directions of Slovenian foreign policy towards Hungary and Poland. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u269	Dude, do you have a debate on Article 73 or something else?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u270	Now I'm going to go ahead with the debate. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u271	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u272	to Article 73 and the Law on the implementation of the budget. [[…]] In this Chamber in the budget at all, and also outside the hall, I have already heard a great deal about debt in fact yesterday and especially in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. Janša's government is heavily in charge that we can expect 18 billion new loans, some already made, some more coming, and I would like to put things in a slightly different context. In itself, it is not a problem for you to invest wisely in the development of social infrastructure in the debt of the state. And this part that Janez Janša is in charge of is not problematic. He's got a problem with what he's throwing money for. That it is an obligation to pay fees for purchases of protective equipment to purchase for 780 million weapons, while the Ljubljana Infectious Clinic, Maribor has no place in the budget for 2021, 2022. That's the problem. The same as the problem is that the Department of Health Insurance, which is a payer of materials and services, basically determines how many people will be involved in interventions that will be opened in hospitals does not have budgetary funding. This budget funding, too, if we implement it with borrowed money, i.e. with loans, is not in itself problematic because it leads to greater prosperity and leads to social development. The country also does not return its credits when it swells up in the same way as households do. Because you pay interest and pay the principal and the state refinances its loans. Through economic growth, through development, some material output of goods, services, production in the company is so increased that the share of debt in the gross domestic product falls. So the debt in itself is not problematic, it is problematic how these funds are used. Let me add that we currently have a relatively favourable situation in order for Slovenia to be in debt. And just in favourable circumstances, it is wise to commit yourself to making a financial small, not only in some bank accounts that cover budgetary expenditure, but also with investments in some basic social infrastructure, we can call it railways, as well as solidarity social infrastructure, schools, development, research, universities, hospitals, clinical centres and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u273	Comrade Kordish, you yourself said that you would define yourself or discuss the amendment to Article 73 that you tabled in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u274	Literally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u275	Please return to the contents of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u276	I am touching the contents of the whole law, touching the content of Article 73 and touching the contents of the amendment that we have submitted to Article 73. So, chairman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u277	The amendment is the subject of debate, not the whole law right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u278	I think we've cleared that up before. I'm sticking to the amendment, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u279	I suggest you stick to the content of the amendment you tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u280	I am certainly sticking to the contents of the amendment and would continue to hold the contents of the amendment if they did not constantly interrupt me. Now, President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u281	There's no problem with the contents of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u282	A few months ago, trends in financial markets were even so favourable that not only were loans cheap but interest rates even negative. So the big financiers were willing to pay that the Republic of Slovenia, with a debt of savings, would be willing to pay even a little extra for this storage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u283	Comrade Kordish, we are talking and talking about the debt of a health insurance company and its short-term debt. You've probably saved the state stuff before. I hope that you have held this debate in the position of the Group of Members at a meeting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u284	We have four cash registers in this country. The Health Insurance Office is a public treasury which is a payer of public health services and materials. So, chairman, please stop teasing me like one. [[Incomprehensible]] So just borrowing is not a problem. However, the problem is if, for example, the Health Insurance Office, which sets up gauges, what kind of interventions will be carried out, does not have sufficient resources. There is not enough resources to allow already these capacities, which Slovenian hospitals have, but are not fully exploited, to be fully exploited, because they require intervention funds, for material, because each gauze has to be paid, at least a bandage has to be paid and every medical watch has to be paid. For the last 20 years, Slovenian health has had a fundamental problem that there is no government on the priority list except on the firing list and for privatisation. As a result, investments in the infrastructure conditions of the Slovenian public health system, such as equipment, suitable rooms, spatial capacity and so on, are maintained. That they're desperately fed, that they're all dressed up. I mentioned the case earlier, which is just the tip of the iceberg, we have a general hospital Celje, which performs a certain part of its activities in a 150-year-old building. There's nothing much better in a lot of other hospitals. The back of the same coin is that services are also financed. It is not only infrastructure on which health care works and which servicees the needs of citizens and citizens when they are sick, including activities, treatments carried out here, does not receive an adequate amount of resources. 8% of GDP is earmarked for the protection of citizens and citizens; the average of the European Union is 10% of GDP, neighbouring Austria 12% of GDP. I am speaking on purpose in percentages of GDP, because this is a relative figure, which is relatively good in capitalist economies, showing how high a specific area is at the priority of governments. In order to increase the quality of patient care in order to reduce waiting periods, on the one hand, sufficient funding needs to be allocated to the budget for the infrastructure on which health activities are currently being carried out and, on the other hand, to strengthen the implementation of these health-care activities in a way that provides the staff and is then adequately paid. As it is said, the payer of these activities is the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. And he pays for the activities, as much as he can pay them, as much as he has the resources. This is decided and regulated at the level of the general agreement, as we call it to this document, which is prepared and signed within the health system under the auspices of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute. But because the public health department is so tense, ideas are falling in public that a basket of health rights needs to be reduced. It is said that people should continue to pay contributions to health care and then get less from these contributions paid for the same money. Of course, it is the first task of the State to call itself a social state to intervene here, to provide funds and to ensure that all citizens and citizens are provided with public care as a right, unconditional right. We do not "have an economic crisis of capitalism, oh dear, we will not operate on your cancer". Absolutely not. Therefore, in Levica, we propose, with our amendment, a so-called budget protector, that, as long as the public health treasury is underfed, there is not enough money to meet its obligations, the state enters into the budget and finances it. This is a long-term requirement of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and we have proposed this in the context of the termination of supplementary health insurance one year ago, if you remember this. Of course, that would be the only thing that would be appropriate, and that would be the only thing normal. Nor would this be a case-by-case case between individual cashiers in this country. The exact same arrangement is already known by the pension register. Pension registers, if there are not enough contributions, and usually there are not enough to cover all pensions, as they are metered and as determined, the state is the one that opens the purse and ensures that pensions are in any case. Even if the economic crisis brings 10% of GDP, let's say. I find it quite disturbing that at the top of the second wave of the epidemic, I hope, but that we are at the top and that we will be going down soon, let me say, to talk about the fact that the public health department does not have this budget guard who would unconditionally finance and provide health care. It does not, however, because there is no political interest. The government of Janez Janša has set a diametric opposite policy for public health. Despite the fact that it is the public health care that protects us from the epidemic or within the epidemic, the extreme right government has decided to try to use this epidemic to dismantle public health wherever and as much as possible. The only safeguard they have entered into the law is that the State extra covers only the costs of the public health system or the health care system, as an integral part of the health system created by the covida-19 epidemic, but not everything else that comes from and belongs to the people of their compulsory health insurance. And there's a knelt and there's a difference. We say, for the needs of the people, that all the interventions that ultimately stem from contributions and payments made by the insured must be provided with funds. That's what money has to be for. Pika, it's over. If it's at the expense of the armored men that the government buys at Nate's befel, no problem, we don't buy armor, we'll give money to public health. Madam Secretary, I ask you why you limited this guardian to the budgetary financing of the medical treasury only at the cost of covid-19. As far as I am concerned, the political commitment to your actions is clear for the government of Janez Janša – to dismantle, destroy, exhaust public health and feed private people. As is done by this extra invitation to tender for the reduction of waiting periods, these 50 million going through the public health treasury in the pockets of the medical and insurance lobby. But the common interest that we maintain public health and that we defend it against privatisation is so strong, this need and visibility, why we need budgetary funding from the public health treasury, is so clear that I would still like to hear from the government representatives to respond – not only to me, because we are on camera to respond to the Slovenian public too – why not budget funding as an unconditional guarantor of the appropriate amount of resources for the delivery of health services. Why not incorporate this into the law on the implementation of the budget, as proposed in Levica? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. As no one else wants the word, I conclude the debate on Article 73. I am putting to the debate article 81.c and the amendment of the SMC, Desus, SDS and NSI groups. Anybody want to talk? I do not see a desire to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate the article 81st and the amendment of the SAB Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? [[Yeah.]] Anybody else want some? [[No, no, ……]] I give my word to Mark Bandelli. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u286	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I will talk practically only about the 81st article and everything around this article to hear about the criticism and what it was about. Dear Secretary of State, you have already spoken about this 81st article since this was previously permitted, but you have read to student organisations non-transparent action. Those were your words. That's why you want to cut their budget if you say so. You tell me, Mr. Secretary of State, you and the government with purchases, such as masks and respirators, something more impractical than this, I don't know, so as far as transparency is concerned, you're the last one to be able to tell students that. Now I'm going to ask you a question, Madam Secretary of State, given that you're going to collect 2 million students – is it true that your teenagers are united under the name SAS? That's the first thing. And you lost all the elections in student organizations. I'm just asking. And one more thing, the distinguished Secretary of State, while Katja Shoba was President of the SOS, was the funds high in student organisations. Then where did Mrs. Katya Shoba go? In the teens of SDS. I'm asking if it's true because you're on the same line. Drago Zadergal, who is now an expert SDS associate, was also the main organizer in student organisations. And while he was, and until they lost the election in all the colleges, there was money. Right now, if we're going to say this briefly, you're going to punish them. You would literally be punishing them right now. Since they weren't elected because they're no longer the chiefs of these student organizations, you'd be punishing the entire student organization because there's no more of yours on the summit. I wonder if this is really some ideological and political punishment of student organisations. Really. Because what you do with this article is not fair. That's not right. In this case, I ask you, Madam Secretary of State, what you want to do with this article, you are literally jeopardizing the existence of four student organisations, 52 student clubs and more than ten institutions at the Foundation. I hope you're aware of that. If this is accepted, you will collect €2 million. And the reduction of funds certainly threatens the independence of this organisation. That's what I think you know. So I really appeal to all parliamentary parties and I call for further reflection on the support of this supplement, because it is literally for students, for our students, for all students. And don't start diversifying things just because they're no longer yours in leading positions. Don't let yourself do that. So much for me, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? I do not see a desire for a debate, so I conclude the debate. In the debate, I propose amendments to SMC, Desus, SDS and NSI by new 81.d., 81.e., 81.f., 81.g., 81.h. and 81.i. The amendment of the amendment of 18 is also published on the e-club. 11. 2020. Anybody want to talk? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which will be resumed at 4:30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4:30 p.m. and resumed at 4:30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u288	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we go to the vote, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 4, 2, 3 and 5 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Members who participate in the meeting through the application shall in particular be requested to verify their connection. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 19. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the Draft amending budget. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 27. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for amending the budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the Draft amending budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 11. 2020. We are moving to the budgetary user Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to the statistical research sub-programme. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Research and Development. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to the sub-programme Preparation of analyses and forecasts. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for budgetary control. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levice and SAB to the Internal Control Sub-programme, the verification of budget spending and the revision. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 49. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budget user the Ministry of Defence. We decide on the amendment of the leftist groups, LMŠ and SD to the equipment and infrastructure sub-programme. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group colleague Natasa Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Chairman. Look, I gotta take this. With such an astronomical draft budget, we are proposing, in fact, a small amount of EUR 252 000 to be paid by the end of the year because of the promised co-financing for the fire rescue centre in the municipality of Postojna. This should be done and it's not done yet. I don't see why the coalition wouldn't support it. Although the Ministry of Defence does not wish to disclose the remainder of the promised funds by citing that there are no legal grounds for this, which is absurd. That can be arranged if you want. And it is not right to blackmail the local population, which opposes further military activities at Poček. There's probably a bit of a break in here. But remember that at its 5th regular session on 16 May 2019, the Committee adopted a decision by 13 votes in favour and none against to invite the Ministry of Defence to settle its obligations. And this decision must be implemented. The decision was also supported by the current State Secretary for National Security in the cabinet of Prime Minister Jan Mahnic, citing: “I must say that I will support the third decision of Levic to call on the Ministry of Defence to settle all financial obligations that have been incurred towards the municipality of Postojna and have not been settled.” End of story. Now Secretary Mahnic is in a position to stand behind his words, or you and his colleagues are in a position to stand behind those words. We therefore propose that these EUR 252 000 for co-financing the construction of the fire rescue centre in Postojna be provided from an undefined line for covid epidemic financing. A lot of undefined funds have been parked in the Ministry of Finance. The government has already provided €1.6 billion in the 2020 rebalancing, saying 11% of the planned budget spending to finance the covid epidemic. Out of this crazy undefinable amount of money that can't get this change for such an important thing as these fireflies, because, after all, people don't just die because of covido right now, they die because of fires and other accidents or other diseases. I appeal to you to support this, after all, your current Secretary of State for National Security was aware of this when he supported it not long ago, so please follow this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u290	Thank you very much. My friend Robert Pavšič has a word in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll make it easier for this national council to vote. I will, of course, confirm this amendment, but let me tell you that the Constituent Congregation has managed to reach an agreement with Morse, so that, if both sides fulfil their obligations, these 252 000 euros will be settled by the end of the year Mors Municipality Postojna. If the National Assembly had confirmed this amendment, it would only prove that it is capable of dealing with important matters, even in the case of so-called state change, to step together and at least at the symbolic level shows that it agrees with the local community in Postojna. A written meeting of the Municipal Council of Postojna is now taking place. By Monday, we need to confirm the proposal for an agreement, but I have no doubt that the municipal councillors will be able to do so, among them alone, and that by the end of the year this unfortunate story will finally end around these 252,000 euros despite the opposition of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u292	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, for 35, for 51. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. First of all, we are moving to a sub-programme to support technological development projects. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members, 27 to 50. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Porti 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme creating jobs. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 49. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Promoting the technological development of the economy. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving to the Sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ and SAB groups to this sub-programme. Colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik has a word in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u293	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues! The amendment we tabled in the List of Marjan Šarca and in the SAB speaks of a cableway on the destination of Ribnica on Pohorje and Pesnik. Why? Because the paperwork is ready, the building permit is waiting, they need the money. However, since we decided in Slovenia that we would like to be a green boutique tourist destination, it is right to have these tourists, who will come to Pohorje, transferred to Pohorje. And it's one of those projects. Of course, I will vote in favour and invite all colleagues from the coalition to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u294	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Infrastructure. First, we switch to the Sub-programme Effective Energy Use. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and Levica parliamentary groups to this sub-programme. We're voting. 86 Members and Members are present. 36 votes to 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Development of the highway and road network. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 50. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 50. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving to a sub-programme of the Integrated Public Passenger Transport System. We decide on the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica groups to this sub-programme. Mag. Andrej Reich, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u295	Together with my opposition colleagues, we tabled an amendment that would allow pensioners over 65 years of age, war veterans and disabled persons to drive free of charge with public passenger traffic in cities where this service is already being carried out as a public service. Let me stress that we have excellent experience in introducing free public passenger transport in cross-border transport for pensioners over 65 years of age, veterans of war and disabled persons, since this benefit has already benefited more than 150 000 users. That the solution is good and effective is evidence of the number of users who used these services during the summer months. We also want to take this positive experience to the local level. If this amendment does not receive sufficient support, we announce that we will also fight ahead and implement it as soon as possible. We won't give up, we won't give up! Let me point out that the proposal we made has been rejected by a predecessor of a law that has been rejected. As can be seen, the coalition did not recognize this project as appropriate, although the effects of this project have benefited and recognised for very good more than 150 000 new users. I therefore call on everyone to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Trček, an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u297	In my own name. Of course, I agree, I will support and we will not give up. But I would like us to go a little bit in the Estonian direction when they change their mind and it's all about this, at least cross-border transport free of charge.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u298	Thank you very much. My friend Micah Kordish, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u299	Thank you for your word, chairman. Public passenger transport, regardless of whether it is publicly owned, i.e. state, municipal, whatever, is already predominantly operating on state subsidies in this country. The extent to which individual companies collect from cards is a relatively negligible amount compared to what the State gives. We must not forget that we are not just facing the covida-19 epidemic and the economic crisis in capitalism, which is quickly followed, the key challenge of the first half of the 21st century is the climate crisis or climate crisis. Transport and release, especially in road transport, contribute greatly to this climate crash. By expanding and upgrading the use of public transport, we would not only take a big step forward towards the quality of life of a large part of citizens and citizens, so that, for example, we would no longer stop and annoy ourselves at the castles in Celovška, but would also contribute much to the environmental burden. And not only for individual social groups, public transport should be free of charge for all residents and residents in this country. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Cigler's colleague, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, free local transport, especially in major cities where heavy pollution occurs and where transport needs are very high, must become a free basic municipal infrastructure in all municipalities where necessary. First of all, it's less pollution, it's electric transport, it's gas transport. There is no need for parking, but especially for all citizens and citizens, free and equal transport by city is provided for those essential things they must carry out. This is especially important for vulnerable groups of people, such as people with disabilities, who are elderly. However, I would like to say that in Slovenia today local transport is already being carried out by city, but there are citizens and citizens in an unequal position. If this locality is free in Velenj, 100 euros must be paid for it in my Celje. In another congregation, perhaps even more. Why this inequality? The health, environmental and spatial objectives call for this practically marginal amount, as the representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure told us when he identified himself for our proposal, to support this issue and I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u302	Thank you very much. We're voting. 87 Members present, 36 to 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50]] . I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and to the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. First, we decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme under number 1. Comrade Josie Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u303	Thank you very much. The Municipality of Thinking is the door to Koroška. Day after day, 9000 600 trucks and passenger vehicles drive through this village. It's a big problem, because there's a gas station on one side of the store, there's an ambulance on the other side, there's schools, and that's why there's gotta be a ring there for safety. Since it is the safety of the vehicle, the safety of children, citizens and citizens, this is absolutely necessary. All the documentation is ready, all we need to do is provide funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u304	Thank you very much. We're voting. The 86 Members and Members present voted 28 to 50. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme No. 2. My friend Nick Prebil, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u305	Thank you, Mr. President. It is an amendment which I tabled for the purpose of regulating the state road in the village of Šempeter in 2021. This work is already being regulated because the municipalities and the people there want this infrastructure to be used as soon as possible, so it is a transfer of funds to 2021 and thus the implementation of the project in the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u306	Thank you very much. We're voting. 84 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 51. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme No. 3. We're voting. The 86 Members and Members present voted 28 against 51. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme No. 4. My friend Nick Pretbil, on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u307	It is an amendment which allocates funds to arrange the intersection on the road Šempeter-Latkova village in the Municipality of Prebold. It is a section of the road, which is extremely problematic and is also classified by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia as one of the roads where the most traffic accidents occur. For many years, the locals and the congregation have been working to ensure that the matter is fully settled. Some things have moved, but now I want funds to be provided as soon as possible and to be carried out in the next financial year in order to avoid such events and for the necessary integrated arrangements in this congregation. This will ensure adequate modern security for citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u308	Thank you very much. We're voting. The 87 Members and Members present voted 29 to 50. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to this sub-programme No. 5. Comrade Marko Bandelli, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u309	Thank you, Chairman. You're always looking to the left, and so are we on the right here. [[Laughing in the hall]] I am very disappointed by the government's response to this amendment. No road, not the main road, not the regional one, has been rebuilt in the municipality of Komen for 30 years. And here we have made an amendment so that we can do something good here. The tourist municipality, which is in the development stage of growth and daily there are a lot of tourists and bikers on this path and it is really the only trailer from Gorjanski, if you have not yet been to Kras, to the border crossing with Italy. Right on the other side of the border crossing is a road like a highway, but we come almost on the macadam road to the border. Literally on the macadam road. And here is the only connection of the Kraska Municipality of Komen to the nearest highway. Since the road is also dangerous, we have asked that the direction in this way be able to repair, overcoat and expand the road. As such, the government does not have this hearing, I hope that at least you Members understand the needs that can be in Crassus, that we can also develop tourism, which is very urgent at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u310	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members, 29 to 50. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user of the Ministry of Environment and Space. First, we are moving to the Climate Change Adjustment Sub-programme. We decide on the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Left and Sab groups to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, for 35, for 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the water management subroutine. First, we decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 1. My friend Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u311	Thank you very much, President. The amendment refers to the construction of water cover for isolated farms, which in fact represent a good part of the agricultural economy in Kočevska, and it is sad to hear that they are still without a water network at this time. Therefore, this water cover for these farms would also mean an expansion of activities and a more favourable and more competitive operation. I therefore ask for the support of my fellow Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u312	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 37 to 49. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 2. Mr Predrag Baković on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u313	This is the Lake of Kočev, which represents a great tourist potential as well as environmental potential for only Kočevje and even wider. It is about regulating access and participation and action in this area, which in fact offers many recreational opportunities, from boating, swimming, diving, skating in winter. Therefore, I would like to ask my fellow Members of the Council for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u314	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 49. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme to preserve biodiversity and protect natural values. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme. My friend Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u315	After the classification of the Škocjan caves in Unesco's cultural and natural heritage, of course, after many years there was another entry into Unesco's natural heritage, the Rozda Krokar. This is one of the six thresholds that are in Kočevska and requires a certain arrangement to keep it as a craftsman. We would arrange access, because now that it's on Unesco's cultural heritage list, it's kind of getting burdened because people want to see it. It's about, if you don't know, that after the ice age that happened, it came right from the contents of the beech from this area then to the expansion of the beech forest back across Europe. Therefore, I would like to ask my fellow Members of the Council for their support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u316	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 49. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the sub-programme Waste Management. We first decide on the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme under number one. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 51. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Environmental Protection. We're moving to subroutine Air Quality. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 51. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the sub-programme Waste Management. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 51. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. First of all, we are moving to a sub-programme to support the employment and rehabilitation of people with disabilities. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme. Mag. Dejan Židan, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u317	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I am asking for your support here. We will vote, of course, in favour. At the moment we have 12,000 500 disabled people in Slovenia who are on the list of the unemployed. Every year they go into a system of work rehabilitation, which is useful, about 2,000. But this system has one mistake. And this mistake is that if someone doesn't do up to 100 hours a month, he doesn't get any income. Only over 100 hours worked shall he receive 40 % of the minimum wage of the additional remuneration. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to imagine that many of the disabled are limited to 4 hours a day. It is simply not possible to receive, and employment rehabilitation can take several months, and it can actually work there. Our proposal is – this is also a proposal from the opposition, we have also tabled a bill last week, of course we are counting on your votes there, but if this amendment is not adopted, it will not be valid in 2021 – to comply with social activation. This means, in practice, that if a disabled person is given 60 hours to 128 hours on work-related rehabilitation, as is the case with the social activation of the additional remuneration, I think 69%, which in practice means around EUR 500. However, if he is disabled, we also have such disabled persons, and at work rehabilitation more than 129 hours a month, he gets 83% of the minimum wage, which is just over 600 euros. If we adopt this amendment today, that is 5 million at the competent ministry, thus allowing us that the law, which we are likely to talk about and vote on in January or February next year, here I believe that we will all support it, can work after the publication in the Official Journal plus 15 days. But if we don't accept it, we're going to have a very big technical problem. That's really a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Franz Duck in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u319	Thank you for your word. A fellow Jew explained the contents. Of course I'll support that. You know, unfortunately, we live in a society where there are quite a few forms of so-called hidden, almost slave-ownership relationships. If we don't support this amendment, we're actually going to make it possible, yes, it's not a harsh word, it's some kind of slavery that's allowed. I, too, as a Christian Democrat, cannot support such a thing, so I will support this amendment. [[Laughing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u320	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 47. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the scholarship subroutine. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 87 Members present, 36 votes against 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the subroutine Food for students, students and students. We decide on the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Left and Sab groups to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 86 Members present, 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme of supporting activities in the field of work, family and social affairs. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme. Mr Predrag Baković on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u321	The amendment refers to the construction of a multigeneration centre, which represents an acquisition for the entire municipality in Ribnica and would provide both a space for culture, sport and socialization, accommodation and more. Therefore, honourable fellow Members, fellow Members, I ask your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u322	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members present, 37 votes against 49. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme of Social Protection Programmes. We decide on the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Left groups to this sub-programme. Mag. Andrej Reich, explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u323	On behalf of the Group of Members, I will explain the amendment proposal. It is the Elderly for the Elderly, where older fellow citizens help older fellow citizens over the age of 69 who live at home, but for example, they cannot handle certain matters themselves. For example, because they do not have a personal vehicle at home or because no free public transport is available in cities. It is a humanitarian programme where the elderly help the elderly in their daily tasks and this represents one form of volunteering, solidarity that is ultimately socially beneficial and beneficial to the country. It is the unpaid hours these elderly volunteers take to help other elderly fellow citizens. So it's about people who are over 69 years of age and can't do certain things on their own anymore, because they may not be able to drive a car anymore, so someone can take them to a doctor or a store or help with some basic things that they can't do on their own. That is why I would like to reiterate my call for you to reconsider and support this amendment, which provides €600,000 for the Older Ageing Programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Mr Željko Cigler on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u325	Thank you very much. In Levi, we absolutely support this amendment. This is a fundamental principle of solidarity, which is very strongly present in the Republic of Slovenia when the elderly help the elderly. It helps people not only to have one association, it helps to regulate basic social, social, health needs especially those who cannot be included in nursing homes because waiting species are very long. Those who do not have long - term care or those who simply do not have money or are not provided with help at home in their congregation. This is where the older man helps. It is solidarity, it is a human relationship, it is a marginal resource that is intended exclusively and only to provide infrastructure so that older citizens can help older people. That's why we in Levica are absolutely going to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u326	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 49. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the long-term supply subroutine. We decide on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD groups to this sub-programme under number 1. Comrade Boštjan Koražija, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u327	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. The government of Janez Janša has already provided 1.6 billion euros in the 2020 budget balance under the Ministry of Finance, 11% of the overall budget spending planned to finance the covid-19 epidemic, with neither the National Assembly nor the general public explaining why and exactly how it will spend these funds. It also intends to continue this practice next year. The draft state budget provides for a total of around €800 million for the year 2021 to limit the effects of covida-19, of which €500 million is allocated to the Ministry of Finance, and the use of these funds is neither concrete nor reasoned. The outbreak of covid-19 due to the human and financial malnutrition of the homes of older citizens and the absence of a system-wide aid scheme for persons who are dependent on the assistance of other persons in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks because of illness, age weakness, injury, disability, lack or loss of intellectual capacity for a longer period of time, or who are permanently dependent on the assistance of other persons in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks, calls for the excessive number of deaths of the most vulnerable and socially disadvantaged part of the population. At the same time, as many as 12,000 pensioners are still desperately waiting in line for admission to overcrowded DSOs. This made it even clearer than ever before the need to provide new public funding for long-term care as soon as possible. The government has written a law on long-term care, which is not coordinated either between coalition parties or between ministries, with a fig in its pocket. On the one hand, it declares that it has finally drawn up a systemic solution and, on the other hand, they do not want to finance these solutions either through contributions, because employers oppose it, nor through budgetary means, because it prefers to spend them to buy arms and grant concessions to private people. The government is on the budget line of the Ministry of Labour for long-term care, for which, according to this government's annual assessment, we need 300 million euros, and for 2021 it has earmarked 23 million euros. In Levi, therefore, with the amendment, we propose that €50 million from the undefined item finance for the covid-19 epidemic be earmarked for the human and financial reinforcement of existing ones and for the construction of new DSOs. As a Christian socialist, I ask you to support this amendment. [[Laughing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mag. Bojana Muršič, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u329	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! All of us here are full of ears, how we're going to do and coordinate long-term care. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has provided only €23 million in the budget for the human resources maintenance of homes for the elderly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also talking about building five public homes. How's she gonna build them with 23 million? That is why we are proposing and putting an amendment of 50 million on this budget item, as long-term care should be provided in the budget of at least 300 million according to all estimates. In view of the fact that we have updated homes for the elderly in recent years, including the House of Danice Vogrinec in Maribor, where there has been an investment in the renovation of the kitchen, as well as laundry facilities, it is expected that you will also start building dislocated units, for which Dom Danice Vogrinec also has a wish. That is why we need additional resources, locations are both in Ruša and elsewhere in Slovenia, and I suggest that the Moroccan Members look back and look in the mirror, because we need money, we need additional funds. So support the amendment for 50 million for long-term care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u331	In the SAB, too, we strongly support the early regulation of the situation in the area of home for older citizens. This covid epidemic has shown the entire crisis that this system is in. Also with regard to human resources standards, financial sub-payments and, last but not least, the needs of society. However, as part of the epidemic, I would like to highlight the problem that happens that homes for older citizens at the time of the epidemic do not accept new protectors, even though the needs exist to appear daily, people break their hips and do not have adequate care. Homes face problems that, even when I say to them, the guards will somehow go away because it is such a life course, they must not accept new protectors, but they have the same costs. This is one vicious circle that will have to be saved. And these assets, this problem, they kind of refer to. I would also like to highlight the problem of alternative care for such people and protectors. Home care in these days is on foot, is getting worse, and the question is whether people who are new to this system of care at home are receiving such care in these circumstances. That is why I will support this amendment to the €50 million budget, as will all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u332	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u333	Thank you for your word. I played with mathematics on the subject of mannequin space and personnel in nursing homes. In the field, home representatives say that the investment to build one such home is about 5 million. If there are 12,000 beds missing at this point, if we can put 200 people in one, that means we need 60 homes, which would cost the country about 300 million. This should not present such a problem for a budget of 108 million more for armoured personnel. And in this case, we would have this spatial manna, which we've been dealing with for years and years now, cleaned up and we wouldn't be dealing with it anymore. We'd have 12,000 people in the house waiting for a town in the nursing home today. I believe that the number 23 million that this budget document devotes to home infrastructure is a ridiculous number or, to correct myself, a sad number. Twelve thousand people are still waiting for a place in a home, in a nursing home we still have 50% too much staff, and these are all problems that require only a few political will to be resolved. 50 million, as proposed by this amendment, will not solve this situation, but one quick patch will be on this open wound, and I hope that a good point for this matter to be resolved systematically. Of course, I will support this amendment myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u334	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u335	Thank you for your word. I'm listening to this, and I actually remember that Danica Vogrinec, a beginner, a pioneer of modern - day care, has unfortunately not experienced age. If I'm right in my memory, she ended her life in a car accident. There's something else about these stories. We've had people working on this for a decade, for generations. We have knowledge. It is also a question of whether the profits from this supply will be drawn by any French or any other global corporation or that I do not continue. [[…]] I'd rather see the French approach that Bojan described, but maybe he doesn't even know that they're building smaller homes, smaller units, 50, 60 providers, a pavilion type. And that's not funny, because one of you is going to growl, and we're going to be in some, third, fourth period of life, or else I'm going to get picked up here earlier for stupidity. And even in this light, you probably won't vote against yourself, will you? Most of us are 50 and over. Even pretty fellow Irgle is not 23 anymore, even though she looks. [[Laughing in the hall]] Second of all, growl around Christian Democrats. The positive message of the Gospel, both canonized and apocryphal, is love for another and different. You know yourself in the face of another, says Levinas. In short, without Pojbič, it's not me or the other way around. And in this sense, we should all be Christian Democrats, and also Miha Kordish is a Christian Democrat. So much for a little while. Historically, however, one of the elements of the KUL coalition in Italy, a little with the help of the CIA, was the Christian Democrats. At the time, though, they were afraid that the Communists would win. If you don't know this tonin, it's also very sad. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u336	Please, let's stick to the explanation of the voice. Gigler's stomach has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u337	Thank you. I will vote in favour of the amendment, which increases the funds allocated to the elderly for a decent age in Slovenia for the modernisation and expansion of existing homes for the elderly and for the construction of five new ones such as the true coalition. In that sense, I will support her. We are all always worthy of a decent age when we speak in this National Assembly about older citizens, and we, when it comes to providing money, are running out of this positive. When the coalition presented to us when we discussed the amendments that they intend to update the two homes and build five new ones, this is virtually impossible through the construction view with 23 million. Since we want to help the coalition in the opposition and we stand here on their side, we propose that they secure money for what they say they can do. For the benefit of the elderly, support this amendment. As long as you speak one word and the other you will work, you will not support this amendment. I personally support this amendment, because I am aware of our moral responsibility to all the older people in Slovenia who need homes for the elderly, including that part of the long-term care that these homes provide today. If you're up for what you're saying, you'll support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u338	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u339	Thank you for your word, chairman. Twelve thousand people in this country are waiting in line for bed in the homes of older citizens. These are people who have worked their whole lives, contributed to society by their work, and ultimately by paying taxes and contributions. And these people did not pay taxes and contributions for the government of John Janša or after all any other government to buy armored men with this money. They have contributed to enable the state to establish solidarity conditions for the whole society. Long-term care is also an element of social solidarity, extremely fine and extremely important, given that 12 thousand people are waiting in line and suffering. He's also extremely neglected. The government of Janez Janša constantly promises and repeats how it will build five homes for the elders. At the same time, it promises and repeats and adopts a special law on how it will buy 100 armoured weapons for NATO and the Pact 780 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, these are overriding priorities. Not only do we not need five homes for the elderly, but we need 50. For the 23 million euros you have dedicated to long-term care, not even these five homes can be established. But I can imagine why this number is so low. You are not interested in the long-term, solidarity, publicly funded home care of the elderly, you are interested in privatising this area so that your lobbyist friends can make extra money on the hardships of the elderly and their relatives. In Levica we say socialists, this is wrong, the country has to cut through its own resources. In this budget, let us find €50 million for adequate home care and support this area, reduce waiting types and protect our elderly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u340	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u341	Thank you very much. I know that some are uncomfortable when they have to listen when Left is trying to convince you how important it is to invest more money in long-term care. Not to repeat that 12 thousand people are waiting for bed today, some of us have parents who are also waiting, and not least, unless some of you are so rich that you can take care of yourself I don't know where to pay, we will all be in this position soon to wait for a bed in any of these homes. I certainly would not want these homes to be in foreign ownership, where we should pay for every activity, for every diaper, for every movement and feeding. As a society, we show our maturity precisely according to our concern for our most vulnerable and for our elderly. As colleagues mentioned earlier, these people have worked their entire lives, contributed to this society, trained us, and prepared society at all to be where we are. And now that they're powerless, we leave them in really impossible situations. Believe me, some are in hospitals, some are in nursing hospitals, some are huge, they're waiting for bed, they're not taking them. That's the priority we have to solve. Then we can only talk about everything else. We keep saying that we're a rapidly growing society, but we don't do anything to get into trouble where we really should be solving it. I will absolutely support our amendment, and I urge you to think of the need to build our homes for the elderly for the sake of your parents, which I hope you still have, and for the sake of your future, to build our homes for the elderly and to support them with the staff, because they are catastrophically fed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u343	Your Honor! With such an astronomical budget, with such an insane, enormous exchange rate, which is aimed at tackling the covid crisis, and we know that covid has suffered a great deal because he has literally broken into the homes for the elderly. Not only is 12,000 beds already missing, but this moment actually lacks capacity. Even in the light of the crisis, covid is likely to be one of these enormous funds parked in the Ministry of Finance, but you will do what I have been listening to you recently to keep talking – that you are a different coalition that will finally take care of the elderly and invest in building a home for the elderly. Well, now you have the opportunity to move from words to actions and actually do so, first through that item you've already set out, and by increasing these 50 million, which you can easily collect from your parked assets at the Ministry of Finance. You can do this peacefully without a problem. I urge you to do everything you can to make this possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u344	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 48. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 2. My friend Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u345	Thank you very much. As we can see, the previous amendment was not adopted. I'm sorry. It is, however, that if you have not already favoured the previous proposal, this amendment represents a good alternative to the problem of employment at the home of older citizens in building protected dwellings. It's a cheaper, faster option, and even people who live there would be more satisfied. How this has been served at another time, for which some do not like to hear, you can look at in the Rippers. There they have well-kept shelters and a home for older citizens. I propose this amendment to arrange protected apartments, 49 in an area where we do not have protected housing from Ljubljana to the Croatian border. That is why I ask respectable colleagues and colleagues for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u346	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 49. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Health. First of all, we are moving to a sub-programme of Investment Investments at the primary level. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to this sub-programme. Dr. Mr Franz Trček on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u347	Thank you for your word. We have a beautiful, beautiful system that many of us envy. It's called – how do you think? Public health system. We belong to countries that have one of the most accessible systems. Of course, there are many challenges in it, many problems, but this does not change this fact. Our public health system is more accessible to the entire population, for example, as Austrian, although it cannot be compared under any other criteria. The constitutional category is also that we must not be distinguished according to where we come from. Or like the Belokrans, we call you who you are. Unfortunately, in practice this happens too often. It's been a long and wide story for some time. Of course, it is investment investments at the primary level, when the municipality, because of what we vote here, does not have enough money to build it itself. When the municipality of Maribor because you don't want to go into reforming local self-government, it doesn't have these pennies to build it. So we have prepared this amendment, which I hope you will support. But if not, I can't imagine him walking around Maribor or as a member of the coalition or the opposition. If I hadn't supported this amendment, I would have walked with a bag on my head or a head on a bag, anyway. Of course, we will support this amendment by the Social Democrats, and I hope that we will not be so smirky about these matters, whoever forms a coalition or a government, but I hope that we are not at least so divided as to fire each other, but that we all want health among ourselves if we have already slipped here, and then I really don't know where we are.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u348	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on behalf of the delegation? Mag. Reich on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u349	In my own name. Look at that, too. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u350	Wait, wait, on behalf of the House or on your own?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u351	On behalf of the Group of Members. Therefore, I ask all my colleagues to reconsider and support this amendment, which will be a large part of the people of Maribor, we are talking about the Fourth Thesa and others who belong there, we are talking about a healthcare home that will cover the needs of more than 20,000 people, helping to provide adequate health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Lydia Divac Mirnik in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u353	Thank you very much, President, for your word. You know I'm coming from Maribor. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u354	Please, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u355	That's not funny at all, for those of you who think it's funny.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u356	Your Honor, I ask for a little peace and explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u357	Maribor is the second largest city in Slovenia, with 113 000 inhabitants. Only one town hall has more people than a number of municipalities or several. We have 11 city quarters in Maribor and 6 local communities. Those of you who have not yet been to Maribor, I invite you to see it. The municipality of Maribor is underfunded as a city municipality. About €30 million a year, the state assigns her more tasks than it gives her money. The result is that the Municipality of Maribor cannot carry out the investments itself, because it simply does not have the money, because it has to give them for the mandatory tasks. The health care home The Tezna, by the way, is a circus of 17,000 people; the time in this health home has stopped in that socialism, not to say communism. Completely inappropriate places where people go to continue to heal. The documentation is ready, so a financial injection is required. I expected this financial injection in the budget to be misled, but it is not, so please do not mock Maribor and vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u358	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we stick to the explanation of vote. Everyone says what they're going to vote for, and we don't launch controversy or appeal to others. Comrade Rajić, you have the floor in your own name to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u359	Thank you very much. I come from Maribor, too, but the reason I want to come forward is because I belong to a coalition group, and I certainly want to say something that seems very important to me. It is true that health homes belong to primary care and are the founder of the municipality, but the Ministry of Health under its Health Care programme and sub-programme Investments at primary level has the opportunity to co-finance investment projects when the city, when the municipality cannot do so alone. The city of Maribor has provided some funds, for the next year 850 000 euros, for the year for this million 800 000 euros. So it's not like it didn't work out. It's just that it's done so much, but it takes more than that to get this investment started. I must say that this health care home is a mockery of every standard of health and that the people working there are working so hard that patients who go to them do not feel it in such a drastic way. But the shape itself, the structure itself is absolutely inappropriate to Southeast Europe in the 21st century. That is why I am in favour of this because there was no agreement to support this amendment, so that we can at least think about how it will be. I tried, and I spoke to the Minister of Finance last night after 10:00 and he said that there are solutions, so in cooperation with the ministries of finance, health and with the support of the government, there is still something to be done. That is why this amendment battle is probably lost today, but it is still a difficult war, and I hope that it will be successfully ended for the benefit of all of us. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u360	Thank you very much. Dean Kaloh, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u361	President, thank you. I would not like to repeat myself, but I am also from Maribor, but we also have Kalohova Street in Maribor, so I would like to highlight this with our very opposition Members. But in the first place, allow me, you have been almost coalition Members for two years and no financial injections have been made from your side to this medical home in Maribor. None. So let me see what you've been doing in the budgets 2019, 2020. However, I would like to give a positive explanation for this voice. Look, we'll just find another way to finance. From the European Cohesion Policy funds, for the specific location of the Health Station, if defined as an entry point, these funds can still be found. So I agree with my colleague Rajic here. The war, if you say so in quotes, about the Health Station Thesis, which is nicely said in a clairvoyant state, I also have, unlike you, respected opposition members from Maribor, there my personal doctor, so I know exactly what it looks like to become Thesno. So I am certainly in favour of solving this problem in due course. However, I must say that I think this mandate will last until 2022, and then we will also take care of the funds for Health Station Tesno. Don't worry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u362	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Duck in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u363	You know what, as long as you're in here making fools out of people, certain people in this one. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u364	Dear colleague Trcek [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u365	Medical stations are working hard. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u366	Please refrain from such comments. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] No one was sneezing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u367	And as long as we wait, as some Moroccan MPs suggest, who understand their embarrassment, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u368	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u369	The European health worker market is not waiting and we will lose these people and we will have one decommissioning without people. [[…]] We should be aware of that, too, so I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u370	Dear colleagues, I ask you to stick to some level of debate, no one has giggled and did not know who from whom I do not know, so please refrain from these controversy, please explain your voice in your own name. My colleague Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u371	Of course, I will support this, I live this moment in 2020, I don't care what the previous government, the previous government, what was in the stone age or whatever. We are today in 2020, the problem is here, now it is a solution if we just gather the political will to do so, so I see no reason why not all of us vote together in good company for it. I'll vote for it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u372	Thank you very much. Gigler's stomach on its own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, we represent citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia all. The basis that we are talking about right now is to ensure access to a doctor. The family doctor is the one who dealt with before he went to the treatment of every co-infection patient. Family doctors are the ones who keep the patients going until premiers and secondarys. Many ministers, as well as the Slovenian Medical Chamber and, finally, the Departments of Family Medicine from the Ljubljana and Maribor Medical Faculty, have warned that there is a shortage of primary health facilities. This is also one of the reasons that results in the absence of a family doctor, one of the reasons why no more reference ambulances can be opened in health homes in Slovenia. This calls for investment support for primary health care. Also from the Medical Chamber, we have been warned that we need a substantial number of outpatients, which is what rooms and jobs provide. In the future, if they have an advantageous place to work, many young doctors will also choose to specialize in a family doctor. That is why I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u374	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Investment Investment on a secondary and tertiary level. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Left and SAB to this sub-programme under number 1. Dr. Franz Duck in the name of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u375	Thank you for your word. We have two tertiary health institutions, two university clinical centres, we have two medical colleges, one of which had a thorny path, unfortunately also by throwing pollen under the feet of Ljubljana to establish it. Serious medical colleges in a city, because the current state secretary of this government gave that sewer shaft, which says it can't be a university city without a serious clinical center. Because somewhere in the fourth year or in the third year, the so-called clinic begins. Students must go to the clinic, have clinical departments and must master one of the most demanding professions and also one of the most expensive studies. The fact is that the Maribor University Clinical Centre is always disadvantaged when compared with Ljubljana, and it also needs high investment in infrastructure, because for about 20 years it has been forgotten that it will have to be renewed, upgraded, changed, and something to undermine, something new to build. In order not to get any Members out again, the proposal in Brussels mentions only two infectious clinics in the secondary. We urgently need 100, 120 investment millions every year in our public health care at secondary and tertiary level in the next six, seven years. About as much as that Ton's package is, I'm not going to practice here with these armored men because I'm getting a little sick of hearing this. That is why we have drafted this amendment in the opposition and will also be supported by the Social Democrats. We must also be aware that without supporting these matters and such amendments we are actually throwing money on the other hand and teaching young doctors and doctors, and in Maribor we want to expand the programme, in fact for foreign markets. Primary to the German-speaking market of health workers. Is that what we want? Are we going to teach some colonial land with these money that will never be enough to train doctors for others? I think it's about time we switched our minds. We are responsible for the state budget, Members and Members of Parliament, the government is only proposing it. Under Article 82, we are not bound by the instructions of any Prime Minister, if perhaps you have forgotten, if you have not read the Constitution in the last few years or ten years.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u376	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan in his own name. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u377	Thank you, President. I will vote for this amendment myself for a simple reason. I live in Prekmurje. Maribor University Clinical Centre covers one third of Slovenia, UKC Ljubljana two thirds. The ratio is 1 :2. In some areas, it is even the most excellent institution in Slovenia. So we don't go looking for reasons to go back. If we look at it from 2009 to 2018, investments in Slovenia were somewhat proportional. What broke in 2019 and 2020, that Maribor was completely on the sidelines, I have been researching for a year and a half. Not just under this government, even under the previous government. I couldn't figure it out. I only note that there are no investment funds for the second largest healthcare facility in Slovenia, from which we expect a lot. I think it is necessary to vote for also because I feel very uncomfortable seeing top-notch, high-level policies ruling options, as they now go to UKV Maribor, praising, bouncy people, how good you are, how you help those who are sick. But you can't just say that. By pressing the button today and allowing investment funds also for Maribor, not only for other parts of Slovenia, you will do something concrete and not just in words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u378	Thank you very much. Mag. The Reich in its own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u379	I too will continue somehow the story of my predecessors, but in the sense that the position of Maribor needs to be strengthened. We are a city that is only 15 kilometers from the Austrian border. We need to consolidate the geostrategic position of our city in the broadest sense of the word towards the Austrian City, which is the second most powerful city in Austria, one of the richest Member States of the European Union. It is therefore right that, if we want Maribor to become one strong regional and also international centre, investment in the clinical centre should also be carried out in a proportionate and appropriate manner and equally across the country. It is true that European funds are available, but then European funds should be acquired in the same way and in the same proportion throughout Slovenian hospitals. This is essentially my answer, why it is necessary to increase funding for investments in the Maribor hospital from the state budget. I therefore hope, my fellow Members and colleagues, that this proposal, which we have jointly signed and prepared in the opposition, will also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u380	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 46. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme under number 2. Dr. Mr Franz Trček on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u381	Thank you for your word. Our gastro-clinic at UKC Ljubljana is also a national pearl and national disgrace. The fact that she is a national pearl and shame could also be confirmed by a fellow Christian Democrat, at least after that addition to me, the Christian Democrat and the Social Democrat, because we were together on the morning board, where four generations of high-quality doctors, doctors and other staff operating in national disgrace are absolutely impossible conditions. Those who operate or operate or work for a longer time in politics, if this goes on, will probably end up on the gaster. 70% of people who end up in the gastro-clinic have cancers, even a variety of cancers, they take therapy in the hallway. Our cafeteria, when we go to coffee in the National Assembly in the morning, is Hilton against the gastro-clinic. The Social Democrats will, of course, support this amendment, which I have drafted on behalf of the opposition. After all, it was also a promise made by my colleague Ivy when we visited the gastro clinic together. I really don't understand. I don't understand if you don't support this. I don't understand it, I just don't understand it on a personal level. It's 90 of us, we're all equally responsible. You do not have one document in Slovenia that says that the opposition Member is different from the coalition Member. We have a national disgrace in a building that is otherwise an architectural pearl, Fabiani's, monumentally protected, from the beginning of the ten years of the past century. It seems to me that we owe citizens and citizens a new one, to build a new gastro-clinic. This building should be dedicated to the history of Slovenian medicine before and after independence, so that you will be comforted here. As I said before, the Social Democrats will, of course, break this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u382	We're voting. 86 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 47. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SNS Group to this sub-programme No. 3. We're voting. 85 Members and Members present, 70 votes against 5. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to this sub-programme No. 4. Miha Kordish, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u383	We have been facing the worst health crisis in the last hundred years. However, in the budget documents for 2021 and 2022, which are adopted at the top of the second wave of covida-19 epidemic, we are looking for in vain for suitable investment funds to be allocated to the Slovenian public health system. The investment item for the 2021 budget is a difficult fight of €18 million, no matter how many coalition Members are banging on their chests that this budget is an investment. As far as health care is concerned, I'm sure you don't. These €18 million will only go towards the completion of some of the projects already started, and new projects are not in view here in this budget. June is exactly the public health system that brought us through the second wave and is now at the worst impact of the second wave of the epidemic. This is completely reversed, especially in the light of the fact that, at the same time, the government of Janez Janša through the National Assembly is breaking a special law that would cost 780 million euros to buy arms we don't need. There is not even an update of infection clinics in Ljubljana or Maribor. Neither is this, but in the Maribor — at least for the first wave — patients were provided elsewhere because they could not even turn their beds there in the department. Already, we expect European funds, they are quick to deploy coalition MPs. But these European funds will not really be enough for everyone. They will be much less than what government ladies and gentlemen represent to us. In addition, we are talking in the context of these funds about the time-table until 2026. But we need reinforcements of the public health system, additional investment in the infectious clinic now. I'm not even gonna say today. We needed them yesterday. But Janez Janša’s government acted as if there were no problems between the first and the second waves, and it is done as if this problem would not continue to exist. We have therefore prepared an amendment from the procurement of weapons 25 million euros in investment investments at the secondary and tertiary levels of the health system in Levika. If Janez Janša were less on Twitter and more on psychiatry where he belongs, he would see the poor condition of our public health infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u384	Dear colleague Kordish, please refrain from making such remarks. [[advertising from the hall]] Quiet. My friend Kordesh's warning. I'm asking you to stick to one order. It is also the order to speak respectfully and to do our job as it is. Anyone else want an explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, for 34, for 51. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, Levica and Sab groups to this sub-programme under number five. My friend Josie Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we are to help health care and reduce waiting lines, we must support this amendment today. It's very simple, and I'm going to introduce it to you in life. Look, the hospital Slovenj Gradec has a 32-year-old gammacamero that is supposed to allow up to 36 investigations. Unfortunately, this camera has only 20 percent efficiency, and this unreliable diagnosis. Specialists now travel patients to Maribor, Celje, Ljubljana, only to a hospital where patients can even receive their waiting line. We know what a timely, rapid diagnosis means, what are the waiting types that we are causing for Maribor, Celje, Ljubljana, the whole of Slovenia – then this is not only the problem of Koroška, but it is broader – what does it mean to put it into the waiting line, because then these checks are being renewed. With this investment of 2 million 492 000 777, this number already says that the hospital Slovenj Gradec has been prepared for a long time, we will allow this area for at least 20 years without waiting species. So, colleagues and colleagues, we are taking this step today to deal specifically with this problem. Such apparatus and such reviews are being carried out today in Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje, Isoli and Nova Gorica. Slovenj Gradec is a remote region and this hospital is the last one again, so he really deserves this investment with these funds where we can make big moves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u386	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 44. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, Levica and Sab groups to this sub-programme under number six. We're voting. 85 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 51. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Operation of emergency medical care and health care in emergency situations. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme. My friend Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u387	The project of the first mediators has been very well received in our country and reaps the benefits of success. I therefore refer to the allocation of certain funds for the construction of an education centre for the training of these first intermediaries in Kočev. It is about being the largest municipality in Kočev by area in Slovenia, so it is essential that it has a well-covered network of first intermediaries. And he's got it. Her success in activating these first mediators is remarkable, so please, my fellow Members and colleagues, to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u388	Dr. Franz Duck in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u389	Thank you for your word. I can honestly admit when I was reviewing the amendments, I had to ask too dearly what it was. Let me translate a little bit into human language. When you fall together from exhaustion or a stroke hits you or something, you have people who can help you, and that's how they save your life. That's basically what this is about. In our love of Slovenia we live very scatteredly as we have talked with students today, and we need, in particular, in a more frequent way, other infrastructure-based areas of voluntary knowledge that will protect the lives of all of us. That's why, of course, I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u390	We're voting. 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 49. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Public Administration. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, Levica and Sab groups to the sub-programme Development of broadband networks. Comrade Jože Lenart, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u391	I'd like to draw your attention to this. Look, there are five municipalities in Koroška where there are white foxes where there is no internet connection. This is 960 households, and today these children in these 960 households are unable to monitor distance learning. I told you everything. Please confirm this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u392	Thank you very much. Comrade Reich, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u393	We too are joining this proposal. As you know, in the SAB Group, together with the opposition's colleagues, we have proposed an amendment to this budget to ensure that all students and students are provided with a free tablet computer and also access to the Internet. This proposal for the development of broadband Internet networks in the area of white foxes, i.e. areas not adequately covered by the Internet signal, solves and addresses this particular challenge. If we want education in these crisis situations to be accessible to all, then I propose or ask all fellow Members and Members to support this proposal, which strengthens the idea of public and universal public education.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u394	Dear colleagues and colleagues, before we proceed, I would like to read you an agreement reached at the College of the President of the National Assembly on the explanation of vote. This is an agreement that is still in force. It states as follows: The explanation of the vote is not a controversy, a title, a persuasion, a call, and a question which is for the purpose of the debate, but rather a presentation of the substantive reasons why the Group or Member will vote in favour or against the proposed solution. So I suggest that you do not open the debate and not convince others, but explain the substantive reasons why you will vote in favour or against. Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u395	Dear President, I appreciate your explanation and this reading of the Rules of Procedure, but only on your left is the Vice-President who says that he is valid does not agree, but I do not know what else is, but that only what is true is true. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u396	My friend Möderndorfer [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u397	the Rules of Procedure. [[…]] So now you're going to have to figure out what's actually true and what's not. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u398	Please, I'm in charge of the session now. I explained to you how I read it, and I didn't make up this rule myself, that was agreed upon at the College. Dr. Franz Duck, on your own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u399	Of course, I will support this amendment, because information accessibility is, metaphorically speaking, the water of the 21st century. Certain countries have this even enshrined in the Constitution in order to ensure information accessibility. Jože’s friend explained the situation in Koroška and elsewhere. What a white fox we might need to go there to rest from the use of Twitter and similar matters. That is why I also appeal to preserve the white fox, but not the white fox, which will deprive anyone in this country of their education. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u400	Thank you very much. Cigler's buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u401	Thank you very much. I will personally support this amendment because, recently, the broadcast on RTV Target has shown us that over a thousand children in Slovenia, whatever we think we have our opinions on distance education, simply does not have access to this education because where they live, there is no internet network. This amendment helps. With this amendment, when we support it, we are aware, as we have said, that we will work under the Constitution, I am talking about the 14th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which says that we are equal before the law. Similarly, education should be provided to all children remotely if it is now being systematically implemented in such a way that the Internet is accessible to them. This amendment guarantees that. If we take this constitutional article seriously, we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u402	Thank you very much. We're voting. 86 Members present, 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. First of all, we are moving to the sub-programme Research programmes and projects. We decide on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD groups to this sub-programme under number 1. Colleague Violeta Tomić, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u403	Thank you for your word, President. I will stick to the arguments, we are on the tail in Slovenia when it comes to funding research. Now, this budget for 2021 is increasing by €21 million, but it should be borne in mind that the government, with the 2020 budget rebalance, has taken away 23 million of this item, which means that de facto 2 million in this item are missing. It is also sad that a good part of these funds, instead of going into public scientific activity, flows, in our opinion unjustifiablely, back to research projects for the purposes of private capital. We have already talked about some undefined items at the Ministry of Finance, and we can call this a conspiracy part of the budget, where the Ministry of Finance has a lot of funds reserved, and among other things, there is a new item for a scientific research activity of 37 million, which has nothing to do there, as the Ministry of Finance is not responsible for scientific research activity. What we propose is that these funds go where they belong and shift to the item Research programmes and projects at the competent Ministry of Education, Education and Sport. In addition, we propose that an additional EUR 10 million for scientific research should be provided under the heading Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia at the Ministry of Finance. We repeatedly point out that there are so many and so many deposits at the Ministry of Finance under some heading of COVID. We want them to find items where they really need to be and where they need to be put. So I won't ask you to support the amendment, because I believe the coalition will not. And I will, and the Group of the Left, as well as the proponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u404	Thank you very much. Dr. Mr Franz Trček on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u405	Look, I don't know if you realize that this budget is, in fact, also unconstitutional. Article 114 of the Constitution makes it very clear that ministers and ministries are independent within their respective powers. Without your own money, you can't be on your own. What you're doing to put out there on a financial lager is actually unconstitutional. I hope someone from higher education will go and challenge the Constitutional Court's budget. Someone's been challenging some budget, and I'm not going to drag this line out a little bit of boredom, but now we're actually in an anti-constitutional situation. If you want to do this, then let it change. Then we shut down the ministries and we'll have some Directorates under the Ministry of Finance. Or change the constitution. As it is, it is actually unconstitutional. Because – will the Minister of Finance be the Chief Minister for Other Ministers? Where does the constitution say that? Find me an article in the constitution, find me an article in government legislation. Until you find it for me, it's unconstitutional. Do you realize that? That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u406	Mia Kordish in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u407	Mr Andrej Šircelj, Minister of Finance, sat in the budget for a large billion and 600 million euros. Nothing to me, nothing to you, item Fighting COVID-19, without any explanation, more than 10% of the entire budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We know how Janez Janša’s government treats public funds in public. We've seen this in Patriage, we've recently seen it in the acquisition of protective equipment, masks and fans. I don't even think about how she's going to be doing 1.6 billion euros in a hard line she hasn't defined at all. However, the Ministry of Finance also has an item for research programmes and projects amounting to €47 million. This is an item belonging to the Ministry of Education. When I asked the committee responsible in the National Assembly about this, it was explained that these 47 million were parked in the Ministry of Finance instead of in education only because there are some reservations, czech, these are the funds we will mobilise if we obtain co-financing from abroad. Our amendment to the government's bluff, Janez Janša. If we are seriously committed to science and research, then we will not work for €47 million of reservations and place this item in the budget just as little, but we will actually direct the funds to science and research – where they belong, under the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u408	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 51. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the research infrastructure support sub-programme. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 51. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme of support activities in the field of education and sport. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Enhancing the involvement of children in pre-school education. We decide on the amendment of the SNS Group to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 1. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the left-wing groups and SD to this sub-programme under number 2. Comrade Željko Cigler, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u409	Thank you very much. Preschool education or access to kindergarten in Slovenia is a standard that we have established, and this is good for our country. Our aim should be to ensure that children have equal access to public education. The number of children in our country has not been reduced, and that's fine. The needs for kindergartens are great in the congregations, and unfortunately the lack of kindergartens is evident in the fact that in many congregations there are lists of children waiting for entry into kindergarten. In Levica and in the opposition, we point out that the Rules on Normative and Minimum Technical Conditions for the Placement and Reconstruction of Kindergarten 1. 9. 2023 required playing surface on child 4 and 3 square metres. A lot of kindergartens won't be able to do that. If any kindergarten has more children than the available playgrounds, the principal or kindergarten will be punished when visiting the school inspectorate. For this reason, we need to provide additional funds to co-finance municipalities in order to build additional necessary kindergarten facilities. There is some of this money, but this money is severely insufficient, so we propose that this money be increased by €10 million. This practically means a little more than two armoured vehicles. Either we provide two armoured vehicles and a little more along the way or we provide money to co-finance the kindergarten space by the municipalities. In 2011, when the state helped municipalities with co-investment funds to build kindergartens, the state provided 7.5 million. We propose that these funds increase and that we show that this National Assembly is serious, or all Members and Members of Parliament, when we speak of children. It is the equality of all children in Slovenia, active kindergartens and the equal status of women resulting from this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u410	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 51. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 3. Mr Predrag Baković, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u411	Thank you very much. During the debate on these amendments, we were somehow warned or comforted by the coalition that €40 million has been allocated to the construction of primary schools and kindergartens in four years. Franz had already calculated over his thumb, which means EUR 10 million per year. If I expose the construction of a kindergarten in Kočev, which will be 16th grade and will stand there for about 7 million, that means you can build a kindergarten in one year and a half. That is why we have also proposed and will support the amendment relating to the construction of this kindergarten in Kočev in order to provide 4 million euros of funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u412	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 50. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD groups to this sub-programme under number 4. Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u413	Thank you for your word. In fact, I will present the following five amendments concerning the organisation of education during the coronavirus. The Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia, better known as SWIZ, which represents the interests of over 38 000 employees in education, science and culture, has pointed out that it is essential to establish conditions for the stable functioning of kindergartens and schools during the epidemic so that they can function. He suggested the following things, or the following means, that we packed in the amendments. Firstly, EUR 50 million is allocated for additional temporary employment of administrative, technical and professional staff; for the purchase of computers, cameras, software and internet connections for students, students and students EUR 13 million; for the purchase of computers, webcams, software and for the provision of internet connections, as well as other adaptations in the equipment of kindergartens, schools, student homes and colleges EUR 9 million; for the purchase of personal security equipment such as facial masks, disinfection, viziers and other 12 million euros; and for the additional professional assistance of students and students EUR 6 million. That's the next five amendments. As it is said, in the Group of the Left, we will, of course, support them as co-proposers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u414	Thank you very much. We're voting. The 86 Members and Members present voted in favour of 35 votes against 51. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to this sub-programme No. 1. We're voting. The 86 Members and Members present voted in favour of 35 votes against 51. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD groups to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. 85 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 51. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica to this sub-programme under number 3. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u415	Together with our opposition colleagues, we have tabled an amendment providing free masks for primary school students. Let us recall that because of the epidemiological situation, masks were first ordered as compulsory part of primary school equipment. Now, due to the deterioration of the epidemiological situation, learning is taking place from home to distance. If we want post-secondary education to take place safely and reliably for as long as possible, we propose that all pupils, all pupils in primary schools – primary education is compulsory – be provided with free masks. I therefore ask that the proposal be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u416	We're voting. The 86 Members and Members present voted in favour of 35 votes against 51. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD to this sub-programme under number 4. We're voting. The 86 Members and Members present voted in favour of 35 votes against 51. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Implementation of secondary education programmes. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica to this sub-programme under number two. Mag. Reich, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u417	Like the wearing mask, which is protective equipment required in primary school, it is also in secondary education. Therefore, with the opposition partners, we propose that all secondary schools be provided with free protection masks. They will be able to attend school safely in high school. This is a continuation of primary education and one step that will enable secondary school students to qualify adequately and thus become independent citizens. Therefore, we ask that you support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u418	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 49. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Activity of higher education. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups Levica, LMŠ, SAB and SD to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, for 36, for 48. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Activity of Higher Education. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme under number 1. Dr. Franz Duck, on your own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u419	Look, even during that government and those crises, Slovenia was a comparative country that was the worst in the head. [[Incomprehensible]] Now in these budgets, when we talk about these billions, as if they were franciles, they're cutting up higher education into an integral. What does this budget say? We're uneducated on the brink of collapse, and we're going to throw ourselves on the ledge if we don't accept such amendments. It's not funny, it's like I said before, for killing yourself. And it's clearly supported by Mrs. Regular Professor, Politologist, District Minister. And that's enough to hang yourself after you kill yourself in the middle. That's not funny, that's true. And on the other hand, we will write in Brussels – and you think that in Brussels we do not see this nonsense now, and at each embassy is someone who speaks a better Slovenian than most of us – and there we will write how we will develop digital, green, up and down. And I'm ashamed to be a messenger right now. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u420	We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members, 37 to 50. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD groups to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 51. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving to the sub-programme Sports Infrastructure. We decide on the amendment of the SNS Group to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme under number 2. Collegiate Lidija Divac Mirnik, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u421	I'm only going to answer twice, Comrade Pojbich, so now you can take pictures or shoot or do what you've done before. In Maribor we have seventeen city districts and local communities, many more than many municipalities in Slovenia, and almost every municipality has its own sports hall. Well, in Maribor, we don't have one that is suitable and would satisfy some European standards for the highest level games. It therefore proposes that the sport hall of Tabor be finally restored to be suitable for what it is intended for. As it is said, if the Municipality of Maribor had not been subsidized, it could have made these investments itself. But because it's underfunded, and it can't take them out on its own, and it needs help from the state. Thank you very much. I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u422	Mag. Mr Andrej Reich on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u423	Maribor is the second largest city and I will repeat that it is only 15 kilometers away from Austria. Maribor needs an infrastructure that will somehow balance the power of the neighbouring Gradac, we are talking about the second most powerful Austrian city, the second strongest and richest region in Austria, one of the richest countries in the European Union. Speaking of the Tabor Sports Hall, we need to know that this is a hall used by a wider region. The Eco Fund Regulation is not suitable for financing such large facilities, but primarily for the primary school hall, but not for such large halls, so it does not currently provide sufficient resources to finance these measures. One option is to change the rules to EcoFund, but this has not happened. That's why we're essentially putting an end to this amendment. I'm not going to say irregularity. I'm going to say one thing that's overlooked in this rule. In this way we enable energy rehabilitation and upgrading for Maribor and the wider regions of the very important sports halls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u424	Thank you very much. Dushan Shisko, in his own name
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u425	Thank you, Chairman. Look at what my fellow Reich said from the heart, that Maribor is the second largest city, I must tell you that he convinced me that I will give my vote, so that I will vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u426	Okay. Comrade Franz Duck, on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u427	When I listened to this, I remembered that the first Olympic medal from the premises that he heard today in the name of the Republic of Slovenia came in the sabering of the Austrian-Hungarian Paradise. In Maribor we also have a very good Sabljak club and you probably don't want to take our own, I don't know, bicycle food as a Venezuelan team in sabering. Probable people deserve one of these halls, and maybe we can get a gold medal like the Venezuelans in the saber. I'll vote in favour. Maribor is, of course, the Slovenian sports capital, and it will be, even without this hall, but it certainly deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u428	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 45. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 3. Mr Predrag Baković, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u429	If we look from Ljubljana to the border with Croatia in the southern part of Slovenia, we actually have only one pool, which is located in Ribnica. As far as learning sports training about swimming is concerned, this is only done in this location. In the summer it is also possible to swim in Lake Kočevska, as you have already heard, but Kolpa has been almost useless since the fence was built. The amendment, which I will also support, refers to the arrangement or the repair of the swimming pool, which is in poor condition in Ribnica. This project takes about half a million euros and I will support it because I think it is extremely important for the whole region, both the Ribnik-Kočevska Valley and the wider one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u430	Thank you very much. We're voting. 87 Members present, for 38, for 49. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 4. We're voting. 87 Members present, 36 votes against 51. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budget user the Ministry of Culture. First we move to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme under number 1. Collegiate Lidija Divac Mirnik, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u431	Last time today's Maribor projects. The so-called Maribor Library or the Centre Rotovž, an innovative centre aimed at the promotion of books, education, culture and digitalisation. Since it was clear to me at the time of the debate, if you ask me why you did not do so in the government of Mariana Sharca, I will answer again here. Because the former mayor of Fistravec invented a new location every week, and then a new mayor, SMC mayor, came along to decide on the location and prepare the documentation. That is why, of course, it was not possible for the government to carry out this project, but now it has. Here I expect the country to do what the cultural minister Simoniti has promised. I will vote that Maribor will finally get this library, and also that people educated remain in Maribor and that young people remain in Maribor so that they will not escape to Austria immediately after the completion of the study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u432	Thank you very much. Franz Duck, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u433	I'm not gonna repeat what Lydia said. Now that I listen to these stories, somehow I come to the conclusion that what is in Germany Dresden is in Slovenia Maribor, the cultural capital. They're similar to Dresden when it comes to bombing at the end of World War II. And I see no reason to continue to bomb Maribor in this way, as do numerous governments. After all, because as soon as Maribor is bombed, Ljubljana will also be one of you. I don't know if you're aware of that or not. If anyone else listens to this, we're not talking about some billions, we're talking about 3 million 880 thousand euros, which would make it possible for that part of the municipal budget to finally grow into a library for our Rotov in a beautiful market, which I think the cultural capital deserves. To present an exhibition there to the five renowned authors of Maribor, to put on some exhibition of a city with a deep history, a city that has far gone far from pursuing others and others, which I cannot say is happening in this House, is not. A city that accepts you, which is so cultural, because there is no national council. You know, being a Mariborian is a state of spirit. And I invite you to come to Maribor and support this amendment earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u434	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u435	Thank you for your word. When it comes to the book, I will absolutely vote in favour. I will absolutely vote in favour because this is the first library, the modest one I went to as a primary school. You coalition MPs and MPs, who have been so inspired lately for weapons and this, look, Brecht said "the book is a weapon, take it into your hands." I think we should support this unanimously. It's a book and it's a weapon, so let's back it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u436	Thank you very much. Mr Branislav Rajić on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u437	Thank you very much. Maribor has this misfortune that it is a second city in size and, of course, like a sub-capital, like one regional centre, which has almost all functions as the capital – the university, the artistic center, I mean the theatre, the opera and everything else, the economic center – but it does not have this opportunity as the capital city to receive some additional funds through the capital law. We have a paradox that many people go to Maribor to work, to educate and to use it in other ways, while their principals go to the congregations where they are established. And this discrimp between what Maribor offers and what Maribor gets from the country is right here visible in the area of an unbuilt Maribor library, which has been falling apart for almost 30 years and is over a period of good half a century compared to libraries such as other European cities. This amendment, which has now been proposed, has in fact been very useful in supporting it, as it is only 3 million €880 000. This is the first phase of construction, the projects are finally in order and it is not only about building one facility, which is a library activity, but about a large cultural centre and, more importantly, it is even more important or equally important that this revitalisation of one large central urban part of the medieval part of the city, which would finally get one so modern, of course with the reminiscences of the old, the period of the Middle Ages and beyond. The municipality now has a few funds, six and a half million for two years, but it needs state aid to do so. Since it was not fortunate that this amendment would find an understanding of everyone, we spoke again with the Minister of Finance, and he believes that it is not possible to throw the rifle into the corn, so that the funds can also be obtained from cohesion funds under the criteria of digitisation. So this way we'll try to move forward. And I support this amendment even more passionately than the others, because it was simply feasible. But we still, unfortunately, find that customer discipline is far more defining to certain decisions than the actual benefit.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u438	Thank you very much. Comrade Reich, on behalf of the Group of Members. .
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u439	Each budget shall be a reflection of the priority of each government. Here we are talking about how the government will help meet the basic needs of 200,000 people. A little later in the National Assembly, we will consider an amendment to the budget that will address the construction of one museum, which could be placed in a peaceful place within an existing museum, such as the Museum of Slovenian Military History, located in the Maribor cadetary. So it's a decision, it's a matter of priority. And the priority for me and for many others in this Chamber is to build a Maribor library in front of the interests of political parties. I call on everyone to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u440	Thank you very much. Comrade Dean Jedhan, on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u441	Thank you, President. I will vote for this amendment. However, I must tell you, honourable Members, that I felt extremely uncomfortable when you laughed or mocked Franjota, Andrea or Lydia when they spoke “we are Mariborians”. Yeah, what are you doing? Do you know why these people are in trouble? Because this budget on Maribor has forgotten. Why am I saying this emotionally? I'm Prekmurec. But I'm also a Mariborian. Mom and Dad still live in Maribor. When I look at this budget and see that there is no room for the city library, I remember when I visited it myself and what cultural means to Maribor. When there is no room in your hearts for UKC Maribor, except for taking pictures in front of these big buildings, or for the station Tezna, I do not allow you to laugh at Maribor. He will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u442	Franz Duck in his own name. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u443	Can we, or break up, have a little fight or something? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u444	Let's make it another half hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u445	Okay, okay. Thank you. Now that Dejan was saying that, I remembered before I became an MP, I was very fond of going to work at that study book of ours. There I was usually in the company of some pensioners and pensioners who, after all, with modest pensions, because many of you probably forgot what happened to Maribor in the late '80s, the early '90s, when there were a lot of people on hold and they didn't have a full pension, and they actually go to the library because they didn't have money to buy newspapers. I studied there, they handled the crossword puzzles beautifully, which is also good for the third period of life. This is how you all feel about pensioners and pensioners who love to go to elections. That's why you're doing it. After all, I would like you to support this for several reasons. I have no doubt that Janez Janša will not write another book, but I would like her to represent her in such a beautiful environment. I'm serious. I'm not kidding. I've got some books at home myself, and Dean has them. I'd like to give some of my books to the library of Maribor, but I know they'll end up at the dump because they just don't have anywhere to put them. I don't know if we can't get that much sense out of all these billions, because, unfortunately, Maribor lies below a thousand feet of sea level, there's not a mountain cabin that's burned. We have been through this in some past rebalancing, and it seems to me that some minimum culture can be demonstrated and voted together by this amendment. And I promise to make an effort with the Moroccan Members and Members of Parliament, let's say that colleague Jeraj comes to present her new poetry collection at the new center of Rotov.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u446	Mag. Bojana Muršič, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u447	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote for the amendment. Why? Because I come from places that are actually very gravitational towards Maribor. And I visited the Maribo Library and visited it. As soon as you enter these premises, it seems to you that you've entered, I don't know, what time. All these years since I've been in the National Assembly, we have advocated that this project be brought to life in order to take this project one step further. And finally, projects with the new mayor are ready, and it's only right that we listen to it. It is extremely important that we have children educated, that they do not stagnate, that they have all the relevant literature at their disposal. Many children cannot afford it, or books cannot buy it, and Maribor and the Maribor Library make a remarkable contribution to it. In the exhibitions of the Maribor library located in these places, they do not have as much literary material as the Maribor library has. This project will also preserve Maribor's cultural heritage, and this is extremely important. It is time to start thinking about the northeast part of Slovenia. In this budget, northeastern Slovenia is forgotten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u448	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 46. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 49. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 3. We're voting. The 86 Members and Members present voted in favour of 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're still moving on to the subroutine art programs. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to this sub-programme. We're voting. The 83 Members and Members present, the vote was 51 votes in favour, 22. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. We decide on the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups to the sub-programme Supporting activities of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Dr. Franz Duck, on your own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u449	Thank you. With all billions cutting up the good 150 000 SAZU for supporting activity, it is a national disgrace. Then let's stop the SAZU. It seems to be bothering you, at least part of it. Will you stop the SAZU? Do you even know what that is? Do you even know the wealth we have there? [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u450	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u451	Yeah, that's an explanation for a voice that's a little too polite, given what kind of pubs I've been in for the last seven years, if I say it in my mother tongue, I'm not going to translate. We have therefore prepared an amendment in the KUL Coalition to ensure that these 150 thousand are left in the SAZU, that certain young people at the institutes of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts develop, among other things, a better Slovenian language than we speak here. And I'm gonna stop at this point. Now I'd really rather kill myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u452	Thank you very much. Victory, Jelinčič, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u453	Thank you very much. Well, with this strong praise of the SAZU, I will only say that Slovenia's SAZU has significantly more academics in two million inhabitants than all France has. So do not talk to me about the knowledge that is collected there, because if we look only at the Slovenian language, it already appears in the title that they do not know the Slovenian language, because the name is the Institute of Slovenian Language Fran Ramovš. Does Fran Ramovš have his own Slovenian language? It would be right for the Institute to be different, in short, sir, [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]] Who you are, right here in front of me. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u454	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u455	In fact, the Fran Ramovša Institute for Slovenian Language, Mr Trček.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u456	Procedurally, Comrade Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u457	First of all, I didn't even mention this institute. Secondly, this is not an explanation for the voice. Thirdly, the winner is 72 years old, the oldest of us is [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u458	Comrade Duck, this is not a procedural proposal either. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the draft amending budget. We're voting. 84 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 28. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that a specific part of the draft amending budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 29. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the Development Programmes Plan has been adopted. We have completed our decision-making on individual parts of the Draft amending budget. I ask the representative of the Government whether the proposal for amending the budget is in terms of revenue and expenditure and in part coordinated.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u459	Thank you for your word. Given the fact that several amendments have been voted on, it is not harmonised. A specific part of the budget and the government would need about half an hour to prepare a harmonisation amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u460	Thank you very much. On the basis of the Government's opinion, I note that the proposal for amending the budget is not harmonised. By 19.45 the government should prepare an amendment to harmonise the Draft amending budget. Until the amendment of the Government, a mother's working body will also be identified. I'm breaking this agenda. Members and members of the Committee on Finance shall be informed that a meeting of the committee will begin in a large salon in one hour, which will be held at 8 p.m. I am adjourning the 48th extraordinary meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 8:45 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1857 and resumed at 20.45.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u461	Dear colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the adjourned session and item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021. We are moving on to the debate and vote on the Government's amendment to harmonise the Draft amending budget for 2021. Would you like a word from the government? No, no, no. He would like to speak with the representative of the Finance Committee, who has considered the harmonisation amendment. Yeah. Comrade Polnar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u462	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 50th emergency meeting three quarters of an hour ago, the Finance Committee considered the coordination amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Draft amending budget for 2021. On the basis of the amendments adopted to the specific part of the draft amending budget for 2021, the Government has drawn up an amendment to harmonise the draft amending budget in individual parts. The Committee supported the harmonisation amendment in the text, as proposed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u463	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the draft amending budget. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 as a whole. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Ambassador of the Luka Mesec Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u464	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. We will not support the 2021 budget in the Parliamentary Group of the Left, because we understand it primarily as a missed opportunity. Delayed opportunity, because, for the first time, after a practical decade without forced jacket fiscal rules, no one is breathing down our collar, no one is cutting our public spending, no one is looking under our fingertips for a million up or down. As I recall, in the previous government of Marjana Sarca, the issue of violations of fiscal rules has already been raised on such trivial issues as reducing VAT on magazines and newspapers for some percentage point. This year, the budget had 4 billion 200 million minus, and therefore we did not break any rules. The budget is also released over the next two years. In the next two years, despite the crisis, there is an opportunity to continue to push forward those investments that have been out of budgets for the past decade due to fiscal rules and acute austerity policies. In Levica and even in most parts of the opposition, we have been warning these things all the time. We have, as one of the debaters said before, still the country that has lost its most weight during the crisis. It means that it has one of the smallest public expenditure on science and research. We have a country where housing policy is nonexistent. We are short tens of thousands of public rental apartments, but the budget will also be 6 million each year for the next two years, which means nothing will be fixed. We have a country that doesn't have long-term care. This is not addressed in the budget again. 23 million is 15 times less when what the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is just saying that we would need to settle the matter. We have a country with raging health care that's going through the seams, as it turned out during the COVID crisis. None of this is addressed in the budget for 2021 or in the budget for 2022 and will not be resolved. Problems just slow down. Even though we are in a situation where there are no fiscal rules when money is available and cheap, we have a government that has simply chosen wrong priorities. There is no money for this matter, but we have EUR 500 million of unallocated funds at the Ministry of Finance, which we do not know how they will be used. And on Friday, we're passing a 780 million-dollar arms law. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u465	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Peček on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u466	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Government Representative, colleague and colleague! We believe that the proposal for amending the budget for 2021 should be a document from which the development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia for the coming years should be clearly reflected for a period after the health crisis that has hit us. Obviously, who, when and how he wasn't ready for it, isn't in place right now. We could say that the proposal for amending the budget for 2021 is well prepared, particularly attractive, as everyone gets more. But it's just the first external impression. The use of public funds is unstructured, without a clear plan to achieve the coordinated development of our country and how to stabilise public finances in the medium and long term. The planned revenue and expenditure in 2021 show a deficit of €2.75 billion, a new debt of €6.7 billion will be required, together we will owe us 18 billion in three years, of which 10.2 billion will be new net debts. It is true that there will be a lot of money available within the European Union from different funds in the coming years, but under certain conditions, and this money will certainly not be free. We are aware that without the debt, it will not work, but we are concerned that we do not know exactly what we are going to spend this money for, and it is even more unclear how we are going to pay that money back. The duration of the epidemic is uncertain, the virus behaves in its own way. And with this uncertainty, there are related expenditure on the one hand, which we fear will not be proportionally followed by income losses on the other, which also directly raises the question of the reality of the reduction of the budget deficit. We will not support all the amendments to the 2021 budget because of all the above-mentioned draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u467	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u468	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is true that we are living in abnormal times, abnormal times due to the health crisis that has hit this world in such dimensions that we are probably unaware of them today. This health crisis has so struck that, I will say, it has put the whole world on its knees, as a result of which, of course, our country, as far as economics and social affairs are concerned. Today, we are adopting a budget, or we have a budget on the table, which, for my understandings, is one that we haven't had since we have a country. I mean, as far as the level of the budget and the level of the debt are concerned. Indeed, Europe has allowed all European countries to give up all measures, the Maastricht criterion is no longer there, the fiscal rule is no longer available and countries can be indebted. Our country has been in debt for 17 billion in the last year. These are figures likely to be paid in some way by the next generation in such amounts that the situation will be very poor. Now there's something political. When we owe ourselves so high, it is very unclear for me and our client how it is possible that the coalition does not accept a single amendment at the 90th Amendment. Not one idea we have on this side seems good enough to support it. And you think only you know what needs to be done in the next year or two years and that the rest of the opposition has no good, wise idea. At times like this, I find this irresponsible. And then to call for cooperation, I find it irresponsible. If one amendment were to be accepted to show that you are willing to cooperate, believe me, we would abstain in the Social Democrats. Because it's hard to be against the budget, where all items raise numbers. You didn't accept one amendment. You must therefore also take responsibility for this budget that you have put on this bench. We will not support this budget in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u469	Thank you very much. Andrej Reich, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u470	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament, Honourable Minister! True, each budget reflects the priority of each government's work. Even in the Sab party, we were not critical but priori to indebtedness, as the debt is intended for people to help in some way. Because someone else will help people if not the country? However, in these times of crisis, we expected one particular budgetary control to be established over the operation and consumption of this huge money. The Republic of Slovenia is heavily indebted at this time, and questions are being raised as to what the impact of this debt will be. In the SAB, we have never been coerced into adopting the budget. We even had our comments, we tabled amendments, but no amendments were taken into account. In fact, I would like to conclude my position with one thought, which should be a reminder to all: the farmer who sells out his land becomes a denarius. I hope that because of this debt that we are witnessing here, we will not become dentists in our own country. We will not support the SAB budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u471	Thank you very much. Victory, Jelinčič, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u472	Thank you very much. Well, it is not true that the coalition did not take any initiative by the opposition. [[Laughing in the hall]] Yes, laugh, gentlemen of goodness. Three wise suggestions, which you also supported from the opposition. That's what you say, don't say it's what you think it is, or you'd want it to be. That's not true. I must say that the Slovenian National Party has signed an agreement on cooperation in the welfare of the country of Slovenia, just as we supported the budget of Mr Sarc for the benefit of the country of Slovenia and accepted his Minister. And the government, after all, collapsed. And now we support this government, because we want the country to move forward. But it's not like the country drowns in one of the stupid stumbling blocks that they don't take anywhere. I don't know why we're tripping instead of moving on and doing what we have to do. We've got a problem with covido, we've got a problem with a whole bunch of things. But without saving, you'll be throwing pollen under your feet. Therefore, the Slovenian National Party does not throw pollen under its feet, but cooperates. It helps and tries to figure out and do what is best for our common country. That is why we will support this budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u473	Thank you very much. Franz Duck in his own name. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Marko Pogačnik has the advantage because he has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u474	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the revision of the budget for 2021. The change in the budget for 2021 is a response to the tightening conditions that mark this year, while at the same time this budget is aimed at recovery and strengthening the economy. The amending budget for 2021 mainly strengthens investment in transport infrastructure, health, social protection and the environment. All measures, all higher expenditure targeted at people, the functioning economy, jobs and stable health care. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the measures taken by the Government are effective and that we will be able to work differently, better, more effectively in the coming year and that we will have a functioning and successful economy. Dear opposition, in May you were proposed to sign the cooperation agreement. Three opposition parties, the Social Democrats, the Left and the Sab, you strongly rejected him. This offer is still on the table, and I am sure that we can make this Slovenia a better, more effective one and we will only be able to defeat it together.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u475	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Franz Duck, on your own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u476	Thank you for your word. If Slovenian policy were capable of a slightly deeper opinion, we would find that the co-worker has only revealed to us that Slovenian policy has not seriously considered the development of this society and the country for the past 20 years. Every week, when I get a weekly email from the Korean Development Institute, which is one of the best in the world, South Korean, not to be mistaken, and I read it, I wonder, yes, unfortunately I live in another and different, parallel universe. I cannot support the budget, which continues to cut us in the head. I cannot support a budget that even takes on integrated scientific research activities. I can't support a budget that even takes away university libraries. I cannot support the budget that is taking the SAZU, but I agree with Jelinčič on that designation, but the Winner, if I look well, I did not vote for your amendments not because they are bad, but because I do not actually agree to such tied-up deals and I never will and will not. SDS, let's stop this charade of yours signing some kind of agreement. We have a signed agreement. It is called a small constitution – the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is an agreement in which it is very clear how we are participating in this byte and also with the government. I can't support the budget either because it's unconstitutional. If I've listened to some Maribor MPs, if we don't have it on the line, then Shirtzel will have it there, and then we'll decide a little bit about how these pennies are going to roll. I really hope someone puts this budget on the stop. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u477	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukich in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u478	Thank you for your word. Of course, I cannot support this budget. Why? At a time when we know that the co-vid crisis will cause even greater unemployment, we are facing cuts. Where? With the help of the unemployed next year, if I am right in memory, 13 million, in two years, about 25 million. This budget is extremely non-social, it is highly militaristic, because it provides enormous amounts of money for weapons, which is unnecessary at this moment, is underdeveloped, not invests in science, but takes science, and in particular is extremely untransparent. The Ministry of Finance has a lot of money parked, it's called a crazy Bianca menu just like that. We don't know what's gonna happen. We have no idea what's going to happen. And, of course, this cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u479	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli, on his own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u480	Thank you, President. The budget, I believe, as I have already said in several debates, is absolutely nothing developmental, because it is probably imaginary, but it is based solely and exclusively on European funds. With what your Multigrarian friends did to us yesterday, it is obvious that we will wipe ourselves under our noses for these funds. This will make the budget absolutely unfulfilled, and the responsibility will be yours alone, not ours. Not ours. And most of all, mine isn't. Of all the amendments we put on the table, you didn't support any of them. And don't let Jelinčič tell me there were three amendments to the opposition, because this is not the opposition. This is your partner. We can see it in all the votes. There were thousands and so many votes, and it was always in favor. It's also the right thing to do, because that's what you've decided to do, and you've confirmed their case. That's right. I'm not saying anything about it. But our amendments, the amendments of all the other opposition, neither one nor the most modest went through. But you know that this will be a school for tomorrow, because in the next phase, after the next election there will certainly not be and absolutely will not be such a composition as it is now, and we will also remember the stages of such games that you are doing here. That's why I'm personally disassociating myself from this responsibility and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u481	Thank you very much. Lydia Divac Mirnik, in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u482	Thank you, President for your word. Why can I not support this budget 2021? Because this coalition of SDS, SMC, Desus and NSI gives more money for weapons than it would give to the Maribor library, gives more money for weapons than it would give to UKC Maribor, gives more money for weapons than it would give to the Maribor Sports Hall, which we don't have, and also because it gives more money for weapons than it would give to people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u483	Thank you very much. I'm Tina Hefferle's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u484	Thank you very much. Dear coalition, you have not supported the amendments that give money to students, you have not supported the amendment that provides the means to feed students, students and students, you have not supported the amendment that would provide long-term care. And if nothing else, these are the reasons why I will not support this budget. It grieves me, however, to condition your support for the amendments by signing some agreements. And that saddens me because you don't put in the first type of content that these amendments represent. So I certainly cannot support this budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u485	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u486	Thank you for your word. Yesterday we listened when we spoke long and wide from the coalition Members that one word and the other were acts. When you talk about cooperation, there are words. Your actions showed up today. You voted against every proposal and every amendment proposed by the opposition. This budget is neither investment nor social in itself, because you have completely ignored your priorities, such as weapons and the like, health, education, long-term care and so on. The worst part is that these documents, which we have had and which we wanted to amend and correct, not only reflect your wrong priorities, which will take us a unique opportunity to correct the injustices that took place in the first economic crisis, when these subsystems, such as culture, health care, education and the elderly, were most affected, but also reflect a completely authoritarian and conspiring way of ruling the Esdes government, because 11% of the total budget is to be placed on some item of EUR 500 million, which will be available to the Minister of Finance, is totally unacceptable. This government has clearly guaranteed the right to spend our common budget resources as if it were their personal property. Without Parliament's approval, without any restrictions, it has provided EUR 2.2 billion for its own consumption, at its own discretion, our common money, while citizens and citizens are suffering, and in addition to the health crisis, there is now a severe economic crisis. It's unacceptable and I'm not going to be involved in any of this. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u487	Thank you very much. Victory, Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u488	One of our amendments was for the children's gym, one of the other amendments was for the kindergarten, and the third amendment was for the improvement of the healthcare home. I don't understand how a colleague of mine could have said that nothing had been done, that everything was bad. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u489	Voice explanation, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u490	And there's nothing good about it. [[…]] I think it is right that we voted on these amendments, and it is right that the coalition has supported this amendment, of course, along with the entire opposition, so I will also personally vote in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u491	We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] Another explanation for the voice. Applications are under way. The first one has the word Bojana Muršič, explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u492	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this budget. With so much debt as is forecast in this budget and somehow forgetting the north-eastern part of Slovenia for all these projects that are urgently needed, such as the establishment of long-term care, including all other investments in health, school nutrition, when taking money, I cannot absolutely support such a budget. I must also point out that this budget is not transparent. Although the Minister assures that this covid item in the budget will be presented transparently, I doubt that will be the case. However, I must say, given that no amendment of the opposition has been supported, this is extremely worrying. Certainly, the current democratic opposition will remember this, and if and when it will change power, believe me, we will do the same. Everything comes back and everything's paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u493	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u494	Dear President! Personally, I will support this budget, the 2021 change. I am convinced that this change in the budget is social and development-oriented. Moreover, this budget for 2021 was adopted by this coalition, which is today the loudest. And for the budget for 2021, you said that the budget was social and development-oriented. However, the change in the budget, which is being adopted today, has more than €400 million in social income, 240 million more in health, and the averages for municipalities are rising. That is why we have taken care of the northeast of Slovenia, we have taken care of the whole of Slovenia, and I cannot accept this criticism, which is now being carried out by the opposition. An important message from the Minister of Finance is that in 2021 taxes will not be increased, that no new taxes will be introduced and that some taxes will even be reduced. All these measures are going in the direction of bridging the covid-19 virus, for a successful and functioning economy and for a stable health system.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u495	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u496	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Mrs. Anja Bah Žibret, I have a feeling she's in front of me.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u497	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u498	Give her your word, let's be gentleman, Mr. President. If the lady has a word, she has one.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u499	Okay, I agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u500	There's been a mistake. I'm sorry. Anya Bah Žibert, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u501	Thank you very much, Chairman. Of course, I will support this budget or budget change. I will support it in spite of the severe crisis that we have not only in Slovenia but throughout the world, the budget is development-oriented, social, also caring for the elderly, for a better pension system and allows for a number of new investments. The fact that some people say that money goes to the Slovenian Army and not elsewhere is shameful. I understand that you are many against the Slovenian Army because the Slovenian Army is connected to the independence of Slovenia. For some of Slovenia's independence was never an intimate matter and a decision. But for me, it is very important to me personally that we have a good and equipped Slovenian army. And one more thing. There were huge amendments to the local level. I'm sorry, you were in the coalition, why you didn't realize them. Why do we have to talk about Maribor for two hours today, even though all of you Mariborians have been sitting in this national assembly under your government? So please don't talk nonsense and admit that you have no argument against this budget being good.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u502	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u503	I have a problem now, Mr. President. I thought I had the right only to explain my voice, not to the Member of Parliament, who please listen to me – can you listen to me, please? – that I have no right to argue with her. That's how you taught me so far, and so did I, when I was in your shoes, was taught by the people sitting there. You didn't interrupt, by the way.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u504	Comrade Dean Jedhan, I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u505	Can I say it all the way?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u506	You'll get two minutes. Look, I appeal to everyone. Now all of you, both the opposition and the coalition, have gone beyond the explanation of the voice that I read to you earlier, as it was supposed to be in line with the agreement. So I also suggest that you don't take any notice of who's been working with and who hasn't. Please limit yourself to explaining substantively why you will or will not support a change in the budget. Comrade Dean Jedhan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u507	Just a minute, if I understand correctly. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I promise I won't communicate with the other side. The basic orientation of this budget, I'd say, is good. But the problem is always in details that are bad. Since some details are horrendous, only the Social Democrats themselves have made 15 proposals for improvements, officially called amendments, along with the opposition Members, we have signed them, I think, 35 more, 50 more. Some are really important. To me, it was extremely important that people with disabilities should be treated with greater respect for employment rehabilitation, that they do not work if they work less than 100 hours free of charge. It was important to me. I don't know how that doesn't matter to the others. But you were against me because I'm a member of the opposition, even though three or four of you apologized to me outside. But that's not really right. At Maribor, for example, Mr President, I was disturbed by this mockery that was heard in the Chamber. This is unacceptable, it is the hall of Slovenia, it is not the hall of one part of Slovenia, it is also the hall of Prekmurje as well as Maribor, and someone else. And you were against everything. Against everything. Against investments in one clinical centre, another clinical centre and other health facilities that we so badly need. You've rejected everything. Do you know why I have to vote against it? Because it's all your responsibility now. You've rejected all our good suggestions. The budget, which will bring problems over the next two years, is only your responsibility. If only one important amendment of the opposition had been accepted, we could not have been against it, at least we would have abstained. Now you've totally turned it down. By us against, we show, you accept your responsibility, you have a majority, you have a legitimate majority, but you are personally responsible. And I'm going to vote no, because you basically pushed us into a lateral angle. All 50 joint and individual amendments have been rejected. I don't remember that in history. In the last Sharcha government, I think we've accepted five amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u508	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 36. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the changes to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 have been adopted. On the basis of the eighth paragraph of Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly authorises the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Robert Polnar, MEP. Mr Pogačnik and Mr Jožet Lenart, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly, draw up the final text of the amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2021. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 7. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 34. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2020. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. First of all, we are moving to a sub-programme to support technological development projects. We decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 51. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme creating jobs. We decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving to the Sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ and SAB groups to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 49. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user of the Ministry of Infrastructure and to the sub-programme Development of the highway and road network. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group of Members to this sub-programme under number 1. Comrade Predrag Baković, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u509	Thank you so much for saying that. I won't be long. The road leading towards Kvarner, which is quite busy in the summer, from the direction of Ljubljana past the Ribnica and then through the Kočevska Reka and beyond, is burdened and in extremely poor condition, in particular one section which would need to be covered, and the state will not find for this means. In the NRP, the date of recovery shall be extended. That's why this amendment has been tabled, and I will support it. But it's only 250,000 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u510	Thank you very much. We're voting. 87 Members present, 30 votes against 49. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. 86 present, in favour of 27 votes against 51. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 3. We're voting. 87 Members present, 28 votes against 51. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and to the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. First, we decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this subsection under number 1. My friend Nick Beatil in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u511	Thank you very much, President. This is the amendment I tabled to the budget for 2022. It is the means to reconstruct the highway and state roads to build winding lanes in Arja village. There was a sort of semphorisation built shortly ago, because along the traffic tip to the stalls from the direction of Velenje and vice versa, but they were never built until the end of these special bending belts. It is estimated that the project documentation, including all the necessary land, could be completed in 2021 and that the project would be fully completed and placed on the market in 2022. Therefore, this amendment also provides for the transfer of funds to an appropriate heading so that the case can be concluded. Of course I'll support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u512	Thank you very much. We're voting. 86 Members present, 29 votes against 49. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of SAB, LMŠ and SD to this sub-programme under number 2. Mag. Reich on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u513	In the SAB Group, together with the opposition partners, we have tabled an amendment to increase the amount of funds for the construction of a western Maribor bypass that drives more than 23 000 vehicles a day, which is the number of vehicles exceeding a variety of sections on Slovenian motorways, so that this project can be accelerated in 2022. Currently, only EUR 600,000 is earmarked for this project in 2022. In our amendment, we propose that these funds be increased to 7 million by providing sufficient means to continue and speed up the works, as they drive more than 23,000 vehicles daily across urban streets. This is a huge number that burdens the Mariborians and the Mariborians in a health sense, in a transport safety sense and not least an ecological sense, so I suggest that we all support these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u514	Thank you very much. We're voting. 82 Members present, 30 to 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Environment and Space. First, we are moving to the Climate Change Adjustment Sub-programme. We decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. The 86 Members present, 35 votes against 51. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to subroutine water management. First, we decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 1. Mr Baković, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u515	Your Honor! It's the same amendment as it was in the 2021 rebalancing, by reminding you that you have a correctional exam. What's this all about? All those who voted against in the previous 2021 rebalance were, in fact, violating the Constitution or voting against the Constitution. You all know that Article 70a defines the right to drinking water. And if an individual facility and individual farms do not have access to drinking water, it simply means that their constitutional rights have been violated. If you vote this time, I believe you will be aware that you are voting against the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u516	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide to amend the SD Group's amendment to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme to preserve biodiversity and protect natural values. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the sub-programme Waste Management. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 51. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to the sub-programme for Water Management. My friend Nick Prebil, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u517	Thank you very much, President. One last time. This is one of the most important amendments I have put into this budget. This is the means to complete the State Spatial Plan to ensure full flood safety of the Lower Savinja Valley, which also includes measures to ensure flood safety on the river Ložnica. In the 2022 Development Programme Plan, EUR 800,000 is foreseen for the implementation of flood safety measures in the Lower Savina Valley. I am redirecting this amendment to an additional five million, which would ensure that things are completed. The State Spatial Plans were drawn up long ago in 2011, and since then the Municipality of Žalec has coordinated all measures within its competence with the representatives of farmers. This is about human security, the flood security of the entire Lower Savina Valley, and I really want at least some voice from the ruling coalition to come to this amendment, and I will be even more pleased if it is confirmed. I'll back him up myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u518	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members, 36 to 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. First of all, we are moving to a sub-programme of supporting activities in the field of work, family and social affairs. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 49. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to the long-term supply subroutine. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to this sub-programme under number one. Mr Siter's explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u519	Thank you very much. Throughout these two days of discussions on these two budgetary years, I do not think there is any secret that we are very loud and decisive critics of these budgetary documents in Levica, particularly at the address where they are declared because they do not place the country and society's true priorities in the right places. On the one hand, not only does the government have a very clear strategy for the development and use of weapons and the costs involved for the years 2021 and 2022, but for significantly longer periods. On the other hand, it is in the absolute limb of inadequacy when it comes to the development of the social state, the provision of resources for long-term care, as one of the most painful elements of the social state. In 2022, the government will devote 688 million to military service alone, to development or to investment in secondary health care 61, and at least to investment in long-term care, a numerically favourable number for 2022 22, only 22 million, which is worrying, given that this government itself notes that we need at least twelve times, thirteen times, to survive this pillar of the social state. People are still waiting in line for a nursing home, for their own bed, for their own place. Human resources malnutrition is still in red numbers, and the government, at least so, has answered one of the questions raised by Comrade Kordish, does not even know how this area will develop and how much resources this area will need in the next six years. In six years, however, when the government is absolutely clear, how will it spend 780 million euros on the purchase of weapons. In 2022, the development of long-term care, investment in homes for the elderly is devoted only to 22 million. Therefore, this amendment in the Levica Group will not save the world again, but we will take the first step in correcting this damage and devote an additional 50 million long-term care, which should be sufficient to trigger the most important investments and to build new homes for the elderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u520	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 48. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 47. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Health. First of all, we are moving to a sub-programme of Investment Investments at the primary level. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 49. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to this sub-programme under number 2. Franc Trček, on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u521	Social Democrats are also like the rest of the KUL Coalition for the Development of Quality Public Health for All of Us. I will not repeat myself, we are not in the mill, we are in Parliament. The whole series of amendments, followed by the Ministry of Health, deals with the investment challenges of primary, secondary and tertiary levels and, of course, will be supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u522	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 48. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Investment Investment on a secondary and tertiary level. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to this sub-programme No. 1. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the members of the Left Party and the LMŠ to this sub-programme under No. 2. We're voting. The 86 Members and Members present voted in favour of 35 votes against 51. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme No. 3. We're voting. The 86 Members and Members present voted in favour of 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Operation of emergency medical care and health care in emergency situations. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. First of all, we are moving to the sub-programme Research programmes and projects. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to this sub-programme No. 1. We're voting. 86 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 51. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme No. 2. We're voting. The 85 Members and Members present voted 28 to 50. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the research infrastructure support sub-programme. We decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. The 86 Members and Members present voted in favour of 35 votes against 51. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Enhancing the involvement of children in pre-school education. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to this sub-programme No. 1. We're voting. The 86 Members and Members present voted in favour of 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme No. 2. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 50. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to this subroutine. Comrade Željko Cigler, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u523	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to remind you of what you all already know that Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states: “Basic education is compulsory. Funding for this education will be provided by the State.” Public funds. In the Slovenian primary school there is not enough room to implement the statutory primary school programme. There is no money to work by group, no money to work with students, no room to work with students with learning needs, no money to provide room to work with students with special needs. The Ministry of Education of the Ministry of Education, which is a statutory subject and is accepted by the State, cannot design this matter, Slovenian primary schools cannot implement it because they do not have room for it. Since 2011, the country has not helped local communities to set up additional, urgently needed facilities for the implementation of the primary school programme. Now that there is a huge backlog, the statistics of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia point out that the number of children in Slovenia is growing, and we are all satisfied with this, but we also provide them with conditions not only to attend kindergartens, but to be able to educate primary schools. In order to do so, it is necessary to provide funds. In 2011, the country provided €14 million for this purpose to help the local communities, because they are based on schools. Now there is a huge backlog and more school spaces are needed, and a covid epidemic has shown us how severe spatial distress the government in Slovenian primary schools provides 10 million euros a year. Where do municipalities get the difference for the additional spaces they need to upgrade primary schools? Will we reduce primary education in Slovenia? This is why we propose in Levica, as well as the complete opposition, that the funds for the co-financing of municipalities in Slovenia for the construction of the necessary primary schools should be increased by 15 million in order to ensure that children can exercise their constitutional right after primary education. 10 plus 15 is 25. To show our responsible relationship that if we adopt one law, and if the constitution requires us to provide the children with the conditions, the spatial, for the primary school, to provide the necessary funds for that. The Left will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u524	We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Activity of Higher Education. We decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the university library subroutine. We decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme. Mr Franz Trček, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u525	It may also be on behalf of the Group of Members. See that in the two successive budgets under the heading University Library you lower the integral, this is an extremely irresponsible and repulsive act. This is the act of someone who can never look me in the face again, neither thinks Social Democrats nor say how developmental these two budgets are but the best, but I don't know what. Please! I don't know what you're reporting. Don't you want our children, our grandchildren, their children, smarter than us, more educated, even better politicians after all? So I'm talking about seven million. There should be at least 70 million here. I don't ask you to tell me that your budgets are developmental when you sit in the integrity of university libraries. I will quote the SDS Member, whom I am looking at here: “Shame, shame, shame!” I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u526	We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 47. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving to the sub-programme Sports Infrastructure. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 48. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 49. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 3. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 49. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Culture and to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 47. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to this sub-programme under number 2. Mag. Reich, an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u527	In the SAB Group, we have put in the legislative process of amandom to devote state resources to the Maribor library and to take away the Museum of Independence of Slovenia. That doesn't mean we're against the museum. We believe that it is also within some cadets, a museum of military history in Pivka, a museum of newer history, but it is necessary to make a priority list for investment in culture that will be transparent and clear, as is the Ministry of Infrastructure, where there is a six-year road map and a priority investment is allocated according to known criteria. For me as a Mariborian, it is important that in Maribor we get the cultural infrastructure that we need to obtain as part of the museum of military history, located in the Maribor cadetary, department for the independence of Slovenia. I also agree with this, because it is only the shooting of parties from the Beijing events, but it is also necessary to set clear criteria for investment in cultural infrastructure in the manner in which funds are allocated. So I ask you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u528	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 49. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 3. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Anyone else want an explanation? No, no, no. What's wrong? It's not working? Anyone want a word on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. A colleague of Mojca the Boxer, in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u529	Thank you very much. I will support the updated draft budget for 2022, as well as the updated draft budget for 2021, which provides more resources for education, health, social, culture and provides higher averages for municipalities with which schools and kindergartens will also be built as debtors. I am particularly pleased that the budget will allow for an extended raid into Šentvid in Ljubljana and that plans will be made for a logistics centre in Ljubljana. With this, the capital will have a decent station, while transport in Ljubljana and Ljubljana will be burdened, we will be able to live a more quality and healthy life in a cleaner air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u530	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 34. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that a specific part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, for 51, for 33. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the Development Programmes Plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. I ask the representative of the government whether the draft budget on revenue and expenditure and in part is coordinated? Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u531	The updated draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 is harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u532	Thank you very much. Since the draft budget is harmonised, we are moving on to a decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 as a whole Comrade Primož Siter, on behalf of the Left Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u533	Thank you so much for saying that. This budget is record-breaking, colossal, astronomical and historic. These are the adjectives that we have listened to for a long and wide period of time in recent days. With it comes a record, colossal, astronomical responsibility on the government's shoulders or responsibility, or an opportunity to decide whether or not this budget will lead to a colossal, astronomical, historical well-being of people or a historical benefit for its own pocket, corruption and theft. In the past, we have witnessed some arms deals, opportunities for theft and corruption. This budget is primarily an opportunity for new arms transactions, I add one plus one, respected colleagues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u534	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u535	To the extent that the government defends it at the expense of the weak. [[…]] That's what numbers are all about. In 2022, as we have already heard today, it spends 22 million on domestic infrastructure, 61 million on tertiary and secondary health infrastructure and 688 million euros on weapons. This budget is neither social nor developmental nor educational. Ignores libraries or takes them from their integral work. By adopting the amendments that we have given to them in the opposition and the Left Party at the table, at least part of this substantive flaw would be corrected. At least a little bit of this budget would be turned in the social, development direction, towards the development of education, the protection of the health system. But the government and the government coalition apparently decided to reverse and built a good basis for business from it in the first place. As such, neither I nor the Left Party can support him and we reject him completely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u536	Dear colleagues, I see you're already a little restless. I'm asking you to hold on a little longer. Look, there's more than one of you who can see that you're creaking. Just a little quiet, and we'll be done with it sooner. Colleague Andrea Zabret, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u537	Thank you for your word. The honourable Minister, a respected coalition, the draft budget for 2022 is at first glance welcome. Everyone will get more, everyone will get as much as they want, despite the current very uncertain situations, for which we do not even know how long they will last. So it's just a nice list of wishes, what you're actually going to be able to make, and we'll only see when the budget is realized. The fact that the current government boasts of what it will give is irresponsible and, above all, populist. You are not giving anything, because we will have to repay all this once the citizens of Slovenia. That fiscal rules do not apply, that money is cheap, that Slovenia has a good rating, as the finance minister repeats, should not be the reason for us to be in over and over-indebted. This is also pointed out by the Fiscal Council, which must be trusted. We are also talking about a high deficit in 2022, which will amount to € 1.6 billion. Therefore, in three years, this government will additionally entrust us with an additional 10.2 billion if we deduct the debt payment. We are therefore once again alerting that the budget is not and must not be a self-service trade without limitations and reflection on the consequences. We agree that solving the current crisis with a series of non-standard measures and state interventionism is necessary; the situation is very difficult; people and the economy need to be helped. State consumption needs to be accelerated and this needs to be done responsibly. We need to spend our money and invest in projects that will in the future bring us multiplicity and enable economic growth, but not disappear in uneconomic, non-transparent projects, even with the corruption risks of gunned down purchases of protective equipment or in some inherited projects. It will also be very important how EU spending will be effective and how the government will draw up a national recovery and resilience plan. We know that the European Commission has been very unhappy with the draft plan. All these concerns could not be resolved at the time of the budget review. Even in the debates, we have not received concrete answers to all our questions. This government treats public finances irresponsibly, unsponsibly and untransparently. Therefore, we cannot support the amendments proposed by the LMŠ for 2022.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u538	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Franz Duck, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u539	Thank you for your word. Look, it is not necessarily that you have ever heard who Norbert Elias is, who wrote about the process of civilization, not necessarily that you are a social democrat or a Democrat or a leftist, but it is essential that all Members and Members know that universally accessible quality education at all levels, that publicly accessible quality health at all three levels, that a diverse public accessible culture and art, also one that sets us a mirror to politicians and rightly makes us laugh because it goes beyond the reach of someone who is acceptable, are a civilizational foundation, are a civilizational achievement, is something that separates civilization and civilisation from barbarism. This budget of yours, in the previous one, can be invoked, because it is Sarčev Marjan's fault, but you speak so much about corn, as if there are more corn in Slovenia than in the U.S. state of Idaho, but it is not, but this budget you have run alone and this budget is in too many criteria barbaric and therefore we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u540	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Please come in if I call. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Mr Rajh, on behalf of the parliamentary group
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u541	Nor will we support the proposed budget in the SAB Group. Not one of our amendments has been complied with. We also have concerns about the assessment of economic activity and the reality of the relationship between income and expenditure shown. The future is uncertain. We must be aware that we are in an environment that is very unpredictable, and this environment is the whole of Europe. Unfortunately, we cannot support this budget, nor do we see this development breakthrough, especially in the light of the announced blockage of European funds on which this budget is based. We will not support the budget in the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u542	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. My friend Robert Pavšič in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u543	Thank you. We've heard a lot today. Just like in the last 14 days. The figures emanating from all the budget documents are not only praised by the government. One party, the largest in this government, is the SDS, in the mass marketing, marketing action, how the SDS gives to people. But that's of mutual importance. If the price of adopting one single amendment from any opposition party is to sign an agreement with you, then I am extremely glad today that we have not concluded this agreement. The budget may be estimated only when it is carried out on the revenue and on the expenditure side. One side obviously doesn't cause you any problems, and the other side will, and it will cause you huge problems. This budget is highly imbalanced, unconvincing, and I think it is also unbalanced. But it's clear and obviously something. He's completely unrealistic. Even an unlisted national party obviously does not believe in this budget. Why not? She didn't put any amendments in there. The term market with votes looks so far away in 2022 that it is not worth speculating with. I will easily vote against this because it does not bring good things to this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u544	Thank you very much. A colleague of Matthew the Widow, in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u545	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear opposition, I hope you've heard from me today.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u546	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u547	Yes, I hope you've heard from us today when you proposed all these amendments, and you'll remember all this when you're back in power. At the time of the record budget not long ago, we together, when we were a coalition, all the similar amendments proposed by the opposition back then were slightly rejected. I didn't say all of them. Just as you say today, we haven't accepted any of the opposition's amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u548	Can I have some quiet, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u549	That is why I will support this budget today. As many MPs, so many kinds of cuts. And one cut has to be confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u550	Thank you very much. My friend Mark Bandelli, on his own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u551	When I hear things like that, it's lies like that, because it disgusts you. You can't believe this is true. You can't believe this. I will mainly talk about the budget and my vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u552	Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u553	Look, this budget would be [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u554	My friend Pojbich, please calm down! My friend Pojbicz, if you have a problem, we'll interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u555	Get out! You got a door out there, you can go out!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u556	Comrade Bandelli, please, if you'll just give it two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u557	Excuse me, President. This budget could also be extremely good. I'm sure he could be good, but he'd be ready at a different time. Do you understand? We don't know what's ahead. Neither do you know what awaits you, Minister. I know you're responsible for these things, you've worked hard on this, but we all know that this period, which is now, is inconvenient, is unstable, we don't know what's going to happen. This budget is a big puzzle. He's dangerous to us, I think, and we don't even know what's coming next year. I cannot support the budget and I will vote against it. I'm also sure in the light of how your Prime Minister behaves so fluently around, so I think at least I hope you won't be in the government for so long, because you've done so much damage that you don't realize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u558	Thank you very much. We're voting. There were 85 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 35. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. This is the second consideration of the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022 in the framework of the urgent procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, that is, by deciding on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled, of 18 June 2016. 11. 2020, which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 73 of the Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. The 86 Members and Members present voted in favour of 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus, SDS and NSI to Article 81c. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 7. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB Group to Article 81. Mag. Reich, an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u559	In the SAB Group, we have tabled an amendment providing the student organisation with the funds that have been taken away from it. I repeat, we're returning the funds that were taken from her, and they were taken away from her because she's financed from a percentage of the student's work done. Since this year students were unable to carry out their work on a scale similar to that of previous years, they also lost their income from this title. Today we are correcting this injustice by this amendment to the student organization. So I'm asking everyone who thinks good for the students to support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-18-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u560	Thank you very much. We're voting. The 86 Members and Members present voted 27 to 50. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus, SDS and NSI by new 81.d, 81.e, 81.f, 81.g, 81.h and 81.i. We're voting. 82 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I take it that the second reading assembly adopted the amendments to the 81st article and to the new 81st, e, f, g, i. Is anyone else missing? I think they're all members. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 32. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 48th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. (The sitting was suspended 18.) This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
