ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 44th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I inform you that Mr Bojan Kontič, Member of the National Assembly, died in the mandates of 1996-2000, 2000-2004, 2004-2008 and 2008-2011. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. [[minutes of silence]] Glory. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mag. Gregor Židan from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., only Bevk until 3 p.m., Jože Tanko by 6 p.m., Felice Žiza by 13.30 p.m., Vojko Starović, Franz Kramar and Mag. Dušan Verbich by 6 p.m. I invited Interior Minister Aleš Hojs and other government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 44th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday 16 September 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 44th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. Before we move on to the 1st item of the agenda, please wear masks as part of preventive measures to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister for the internal affairs of Alesh Hoys. Interpellation was brought before the National Assembly by a group of 39 Members and Members with the first-signed Matjaž Germans. I give the text to the representative of the proposaler Matjaž to Germany for further explanation of the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u2	Dear Members, honourable Members, President of the National Assembly, ministers – the President of the Government is not yet – and of course Mr Hojs! I have before me the irrevocable retreat of Alesh Hoys. A derogation that was handed over to Prime Minister Janez Janša in a closed envelope. John Janša decided in the manner of a true self - possessor not to open the envelope simply because the contents do not suit his personal and client interests. The problem, however, is that Mr Hojs published the letter publicly and the decision on the irrevocable resignation of the entire Slovenian public at the official press conference of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Aleš Hojs' resignation statement never and never canceled. For his irrevocable resignation, more than two months after his resignation, he made sovereign communications in subsequent statements several times. The resignation of the Minister shall be clearly governed and laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is an act by which the State prescribes the principles and forms of political and social developments. However, Janez Janša simply chose to ignore the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia without question. Aleš Hojs accepted this ignorance with a smudge of shoulders, which I have nothing to do with. Aleš Hojs is not a minister and has never been suitable because he beats a man's dignity by supporting individuals who glorify the Constitution. The police are subordinated to the SDS, set up fences for their own people, despite warnings by the Ombudsman, dictates the legitimacy of the people, believes the accused to organise prostitution earlier than the police, gives illegal insight into classified information, instead of directing the police in proceedings, as the KNOVS also points out, and does so without any legal basis, i.e. illegal. The first to sit here, and the first to be on the move, is Mr. Janez Janša. It is not clear which part of the word relationship is not clear to him. Not from "an irrevocable retreat"? What part of Mr. Janša's word relationship is not clear here? Of course, he cannot overcome integrity, nor can he sit here with us today, nor can he defend his subordinate, even disrespect for the country, as you can see, the constitutional order, as you can see, whether the irrevocable decisions of his associate Mr Hojs. A respected choir! Since Minister Hoys' irrevocable resignation, we have witnessed a demonstration of ignorance. Just like today. We are witnessing the rule that has been imposed by John Janš since his takeover. It is a matter of willfulness, of carelessness to the constitution, to the laws, to the truth, and to the facts of men; to all and all, and to everyone who does not belong to the equation of John Janša and his words according to authority. The most faithful ambassador, as you can see, is Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia. A minister whose work speaks of a series of extraordinary events. Among other things, Aleš Hojs lied when he informed the National Assembly that the police union supported his efforts to activate Article 37a of the Defence Act. When the union denied it, with the same magnitude of the vastness, it announced that it was actually another union. When they also informed him that Aleš Hojs was not telling the truth, he once again, as was his custom, merely winked with his shoulder and walked away. Aleš Hojs not only served with lies but also with pressure on the professional and independent work of the police and the prosecution. His tolerance for legislation is low, and to France Kangler is very high. Even when Kangler decided to discipline his own police officers who were investigating his friend for prostitution. Even without bad news through online networks, Minister Hojs announces how the police should treat peaceful people who intimately express their discontent with the government. That I'm not even talking about the legalization of the Ustasha convention in Maribor. The matter is so serious that the Ombudsman draws attention to the actions initiated by the Minister of the Interior himself. Of course, Alesha Hoys doesn't move. His goals are clear. Among them is the full political subordination of the police and the National Investigation Office. Perhaps because the investigation could point to Hungarian capital of suspicious media sources spreading hate speech and false news. Of course, they also include the media, which is closely linked to the most prominent members of the SDS party, as if the minister were afraid of what would happen to the Novo24 he was directing. Respectable citizens and respected citizens! The SDS party kidnaps and destroys freedom, democracy and human rights. Through the actions of Aleš Hojs, such a harmful policy is imposed on us by John Janš. At that, Janez Janša at the head of the government knows no obstacles. Conflicting exchanges at the summit of independent institutions, police, the Statistical Office, the National Investigation Office are only the top of the icy mountain, the people's crosses of this government. However, the ultimate goal, as has already been said, is to completely subjugate everything and everyone for the political interests of the largest coalition party. And this, Your Honor, at a time when all the attention of Slovenian politics should be focused on taking action for the coronavirus, Janez Janša, who is not here today, and Aleš Hojs, mocking people's tribulations, and the constitutional order is for them an idea that they can throw away at any time. More! In this game, Minister Hojs has the power over the laws of the Constitution one key role, respected colleagues and colleagues. If you wish, according to his actions, he was entrusted with the position of the bearing pillar of the authoritarian policy of the government of Janez Janša, and this is of course very good for him. In an intentional decision to allow the possibility of Thompson's concert, the minister took a step further. He even upgraded his role and voluntarily or voluntarily provided the country with a dishonorate membership in a group of ideas and people for whom the glorification of the Constitution is not a problem. The goal of maintaining the ideology of hatred, sharing, enforcing a multi-value complex by the minister is also to sacrifice, such as laws, democracy, human rights and, last but not least, the historical memory of our people, who, for the sake of these people, have been brought to the brink and through inhuman suffering. I've got a lot of questions, you know, with everything that's going on, with everything that can be done by Minister Hojs. Is it true that the decision on the possibility of a concert is the first reason for an interpolation? No, no, just one of the above, but it has a special place in a series of controversial ministers' actions. In addition to the willful ignorance of the legislative and constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, this government's ideological march against the fundamental values of our country and society has been definitively revealed, and the resources are not chosen. Colleagues, colleagues, that's why interpellation is necessary. Interpellators will never agree that Slovenia will turn into a country in which Janša is delegating, which the media will report, investigate, prosecute and prosecute. With all due respect, the Minister, as usual in a normal country, would immediately give up. A man who is not here today, President of the Government, would accept this resignation immediately. Because they do not want to do this because they both have shown that they are not concerned with the constitution or the law, and even less with morals and political hygiene, this responsibility on all of us here today is respected. Do, do what is expected of us, because the only right thing we are legally and constitutionally committed to. And that's why we're backing the interpellation against Minister Hoys today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u3	Thank you very much. You received the Minister of the Interior's reply to the interpretation on 24 June 2020. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior, Aleš Hojs, to explain the written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u4	It's hard to talk to a mask.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u5	Dear Minister, we must have masks up there, a recommendation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u6	We're far away. Honourable Members, Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Fellow Ministers, Minister! In view of what I have heard, I did not know that it was necessary to address the public so many times in this Chamber, obviously it was a public performance, at least as I understood from the introduction of Mr German; therefore, I also welcome the Slovenian public, all those who accompany us through television. After the introduction, I have to say that I do not know whether this is an interpretation against me or against the President of the Government, so I focus only on what was written in the interpretation against me and what was said against me in the introduction. The text of the interpellation for the Slovenian public, the web address at the back, also the answer to this interpretation, can be those who are not Members – I believe you Members have looked at this – you can find on the Ministry of the Interior's websites. It is important for me to stress this because only interpretation is necessary to read. This interpolation is worth reading. Following an announcement by the chairman of the SD, who ordered Mr German to write off the interpellation, there was news in the media that it was 120 pages long. I was very surprised myself when I heard this information, especially because 120 pages were supposed to be written or prepared by Mr German. That shocked me. Of course, later, when I read the interpretation, I realized that it was only 20 pages of interpolation, all the rest were annexes, there were newspaper articles, there were historical sources, there were indications of what the institution was and so forth. It is true that with 16 pages of this interpolation, the signatories of the interpolation are engaged in the oral work. On these 16 sides, the power is 15 to fully confirm. So what's written there on 15 pages is facts and should be signed. So it must be signed that the Constitution is repugnant, that crimes have been committed, that it is unacceptable. Of course, there is no way to agree to what the proponents tell me; that I am the one who promotes the constitution, or even more, that I personally support the constitution. So allow me, my dear fellow, that my introduction, that is, my initial presentation, even though we have agreed in the coalition agreement otherwise – so that this coalition will not expose or address ideological issues – that this introduction will be devoted to ideology for a few minutes. Dedicated to ideology because I have to be honest to say that when I read this interpretation, I was personally affected, not only me, but also the wider family was personally affected. So let me begin, as it says in the interpellation, with the year 1942, when Joso Oreskovic wrote in interpretation, killing, slaughtering, raping and committing atrocities like mouths. More Ustasha songs can be read in interpretation if you want, and all of this is, of course, repulsive. Just two years later, also 19-year-old Franz Hojs, my uncle's brother, participated in a party school in Cerknem. In Poljana nad Cerknim there was an elite party school, where intellectuals came, those who believed in communism to study properly. France left medicine school in Padua and decided to join the Communists in the fight for freedom. 43 partisans of this school have been released. Even today, they don't know who betrayed them. According to some theories, they were betrayed by partisans themselves, Communists themselves, because of course they were afraid that more could be fought out of these intellectuals. You can see their monument in the picture. There you can also find the name of Franz Hoys, and so my family gave their lives for freedom in II. World War II. Anti-fascists, as they like to call themselves – especially Mr German, who, while we were on our own, was old, if I am not mistaken, for 9 years – so anti-fascists said that the perpetrator should be found. Immediately they killed 13 locals and two priests, 15 people. For many years they were persecuted when locals gathered at the tombs, and it was only in 2014 that Mr. Janez Stanovnik said publicly: “The massacre of these people in Cerknem was a mistake. That was wrong. We communists stopped the VOS the next day after this massacre. We have abolished the VOS in Kočev because we have found that such liquidations are unacceptable.” A few years later, out there in 1949, those boys in leather coats, we told them, we came to another brother's, to Uncle Jozet. He began to study medicine, and the gentlemen said to him, "You will work for us, you will bind people." When their uncle told them that communism was not to be fought by humans, he followed the path to the sea. Of course we know what the sea was like. This sea was what some, my uncle twice, later in 1952 to 1954, survived on the Golem Island. Two-engineers told them. There were ten Slovenians who were twice on the Golem Island. It is understandable, therefore, that my relatives, especially those older, older aunts and uncles, asked me how, while you were raised in anti-communism, anti-fascism, anti-fascism, to instigate your uprising. Of course, things are difficult to explain, but the answer was relatively simple. You need to look at who in this party worships who, of course, I'm talking about the SD client, and who they're standing in front of. So they stand before those murderers of our nation who also betrayed their own coworkers — uncle, second uncle, and could list. And those who imagine the country as Milosevic imagined 30 years ago. Last but not least, Milosevic left the country. Those of you who are a little older, remember that in 1989 he told us that "if something is wrong with you in Yugoslavia, you can move to Vienna" – that is, Vienna in Slovenian – "or to Philadelphia." That's what Mr German told me four weeks ago – not German as a nationality, but Mr Matjaž Germany – on public television. He told me that if I disagreed with what Mrs Tanja Fajon had said, I could move out of the country. Unacceptable! And to get back to the numbers, to say what's actually the most important thing in interpolation. And this is -- and I agree with that -- the uprising is unacceptable. In Jasenovac, more than 700,000 people were killed. I don't listen to Thompson himself, and I don't even know what kind of music he's playing. But what I'm saying is that what the SD client has allowed in the last week with his video clips is Goebbels' propaganda. Goebbels' propaganda wasn't that strong. Turn on your laptops number one, why Hojs should no longer be minister, and listen to the speech. They say I signed this so Thompson can perform. I hope, Mr German, that you will show the paper where my signature is in today's seventeenth hours; I hope you will show it. They said that we, the taxpayers, are going to pay 150 000 euros in compensation to the organiser – another lie, and later I will explain it extensively in the debate itself. It will not be pleasant, especially because it will be seen how deeply the SD party is involved in these damages. Let's look at the facts. Fatigue is unacceptable, yes, but it is unacceptable for me, too, to be reading — not from World War II — especially what happened in Croatia during the so-called domestic war. Taking pictures of a German man with his wife Arkan, a executioner in Croatia, is unacceptable to me, and I believe that not only for me, but for many Slovenes. This is also unacceptable – the killings during the Russian revolution when they sang and killed, the killings of Stalin in Ukraine, when they sang and killed, the killings in Yugoslavia, when they sang and killed, the killings of many of those who sang Bandiero Rosso and the International throughout Europe after the war, even in our headquarters you heard it, many of you were even there, or the extermination of the narrowest members of Che Guevare, whose shirt is proudly worn by the SD MP in the European Parliament Milan Brglez. But we live in democracy, we live in the rule of law, and therefore I wonder how the democratic rule of law works – as Mr. German and SD party argued? So, by turning on the ban or permission of a lord of mercy to a minister of mercy? Is it possible that in a legal country where human rights are guaranteed, where freedom of speech is guaranteed, an association where we have acts that are issued and abolished by the competent authorities, and not as Mr. German gave himself in public appearances, as we can see? I wonder, therefore, I am the Sun King, who can ban or allow concerts – I do not imagine ministry in that form. So, how does the rule of law seem to you, Mr. German? As imagined by those who had encouraged 15 locals in 1944, we could see. As those who killed millions during World War II pictured it, we could also see it. Fortunately, fortunately today we live in a democratic country, fortunately, this Parliament is the one who decides in this country, but unfortunately we have such Members among them who are able to say this. If you are an anti-fascist, as chairman of the administrative authority, you have every opportunity to abolish the decision, come to your office tomorrow and abolish the decision. Can you imagine? I don't. Just a few more facts. I apologize for the fact that all the facts in the very answer to the question of interpolation were not possible to state, and I note with surprise even that I found some things only later, they miraculously disappeared from the file; I don't know why, miraculously, they weren't there. So I can say two key things: 30. 3. was the beginning of the sale of this concert at Eventim, 31. 3. brought criminal charges against the organiser, investor Darko Konstantinovic, district attorney rejects this complaint 23. Ten. 2017. It's not even that important, more important are the dates down there and, of course, the documents. I'm sorry about this document, 10. — or when I answered the interpolation — I had not yet found. Ten. 5. Maribor Police Administration, Maribor Station agrees with the concert. Is that what you imagine? The document is in front of you. They say they're going to give him protection, they're going to tell him how much it's going to cost, they're going to tell him that those thousands of 200 people at the concert are going to be taking care of five police officers, and they're going to send consent and permission to the organizer. I don't know what happened later. I'm sure there's a phone call and 15. 5, five days later, this same police station banned the concert. Independent police, professional police – answer your own questions! 12. 5. 2020, this year, we are in contact with our employees, Mr Matjaž Remic, an MJU employee, and the Minister will probably know him, who has participated in the drafting of laws confirming to our employees that due to the situation of covid decision-making in the event of a concert, and that such a decision is correct. So it's an emergency. Once again, today we are talking about a concert and the Slovenian public must know this, which has never been and will never be. He was gone, and he's gone. Then confirm that this is an urgent matter. 14. 5, Maribor’s administrative unit, led by a visible member of the SD party, makes a request to the Ministry that this is an urgent matter and that it must be decided immediately. Even more, activates, wants to activate a public inspection to do surveillance at the Ministry of the Interior, why this is not an urgent matter. Of course, the inspectorate replied that control was unnecessary, that it was an urgent matter, as I said, there was no concert and never will be. 20. 5. And Mrs Darja Drnovšek – I do not know her –, employed at the MJU, calls on the MNZ, that is, our employees, to draw up a reminder for the Minister, because he will meet with the Chief of Administration on the Thompson open matter. On the question of how to meet in open affairs, in 10 minutes we will receive a re-call saying that the Minister is, and in this case, of course, it is all thanks to Minister Koritnik, who knows how he behaves about open matters, who says he will not meet. 3. 6. Our officials – of course I take these officials to the defense and I will always take my associates to the defense if they work legally and honestly – issue a decision. Why is that? Six? Because this is three days later in line with the law when the covid law expired. Of course, let my apology go to both the President of the State and the President of the Government, because in those days there were also indications that this was done on purpose. Why on purpose this week? If you remember, then both the President of the State and the President of the Government made an extremely upright move. They worshiped each other at the same time as those killed in the Kočevsko Horn and fallen partisans at another location. So, both presidents, there was no conspiracy. It was only about law enforcement. I conclude with the State's Attorney's action, which later brought an action against this decision, and see what is most interesting in this lawsuit. The most interesting thing about this lawsuit is that even a lawyer just finds that, if so, then it must be up to you, honourable Members. You need to change the law so that the matter is clear. He's going to the Constitutional Court. So, I'm saying our officials acted legally and professionally. Of course I won't have time to answer everything in 30 minutes, but yet, two, three things anyway. There's a lot of talk about my communication. I must say that at the time of the crown of the crisis, I had quite a few conversations with European colleagues, especially internal ministers. But I also had an interview with Mr. Lenarčič. Here you can see my inappropriate communication. Mr Lenarčič accused me, in an SMS, of having his services checked, i.e., the services of the European Commission, the director who runs it, and of not applying for invitations to purchase the necessary equipment and other means necessary for the period of co-existence. After two, three failed texts, when he did not reply, I decided to write him a letter and asked him to tell me when, who and where he had checked and who had confirmed by Slovenia that Slovenia would not participate in these acquisitions. Unbelievable! Ten days later, we get Mr Lenarčič's answer, where he tells me what they've published, but we both knew it, but it's a fantastic conclusion. He is looking forward to an extraordinary cooperation with us, and he hopes that we will continue to cooperate so well. One week ago, he publicly announced how Slovenia did not participate in these acquisitions in proceedings with the European Commission. Unbelievable. Even this graph, I think it's important. Of course, it's my activities in relation to the police. I did one stat. Here are the last ministers, from Gorenak, Virant, Mrs Žnidareva, Mr Poklukar and me. The colors indicate individual orientations, extraordinary orientations, re-direction and regular orientations. Of course, it is necessary to make such a comparison for the duration of the mandate, I have calculated it all to 180 days, and I must say that I have introduced less controls than the other ministers; Mr Gorenak 2,7, Virant 3, Žnidareva 2,5, Table 2.6 and I 2 for the period. But I've given more direction. Of course, I somehow view myself as a conscientious and conscious work. I am convinced that the minister is there to direct the police in accordance with the law to give instructions, not just to control them. In the end, perhaps another word, two about what is also the subject of interpretation, sadly written only through two sentences and perhaps a paragraph and a half. That is also what Mr German mentioned in this introduction. It's a fraud about illegal crossings. As you recall, in the coalition we came before you with an initiative, a wish, a request to activate Article 37a of the Defence Act. These are numbers, these are the directions of arrival, this is the curve of the movement of illegal migrants. It's happening exactly what we predicted. However, we have predicted that after the end of the crown of crisis, after the end of this period, the fate of these people will be significantly greater than that of some circles and greater than that of last year. These are the numbers. So far above what was said to be. But here I have to be critical or respond to another part of the signatories to the interpolation, this is the LMŠ party. This was the part that contributed to the interpolation, and this part that talked about how you were supposed to deceive anyone. I have to say, I've had an interview with all the parliamentary groups. Of course, some have made it clear that they will support the matter, or have made it clear that things will not be supported, such as the left party. That is, of course, the power to understand. The SD party also listened correctly, said its arguments “for” and “against” and tried to understand them, and the LMŠ party was making fun of each other. And the LMŠ party was making fun of this meeting. Mr. Charz wasn't there. There was Mr Črnčec, or I don't know why, obviously as his deputy or as his professional associate. There was Mrs Jerica and there was a European Member. They said that they might be prepared to support Article 37a under certain conditions. One of these was, for example, that a soldier could move only two kilometres from the border. I can't imagine whether you thought we'd pull a tape along the border or give the soldiers GPS and then control them or something. Well, it was easy to make fun of. And there's something that's important. Mr Črnčec said: “The police wanted this last year, but I stopped it. I don't know why I wouldn't do that this year. Last year the police wanted to activate, and we said no, you can do it yourself, and you can see that they did it, you can do it this year." So the numbers are different, maybe I'm calculating, I'm evaluating, but maybe last year they weren't all covered. This may have been the same number last year, but the intensity of the security authorities was lower. The numbers in front of you are dramatic. At the conclusion of the introduction, so at the end of my presentation, I am predicting that the Government, as Minister of the Interior, will probably come again to you with the activation of Article 37a. This way you can be constructive or unconstructive again. So, honourable Members, for the debate alone, which, as you said, will be 17 hours long, I have prepared an extremely large amount of material, records, orientations, dates, numbers, so I will be very happy to respond to all the obvious. I conclude, however, that it saddens me to think that I live in a country that we fought with all citizens in 1988-1991. It is sad because there are still people in it who cannot from their ideological frameworks who encourage political opponents to foment fascisms, Nazism, institutions and the like. Those who cannot reasonably face the problems of people today and in the future and who still — although I do not know why — are singing in spite of their age those who have done great harm to our nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first is by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, a colleague of Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Nice greetings to the ministerial assembly, of course to colleagues and colleagues and to all who are in the hall! In our Group of Members, we discussed whether to express the common position of the Group today or not. We have decided that we do not have a common position on the Group of Members. We don't have it because what's already going on in the hall right now is ideological interpretation, and I think we're going to be talking all day or you're just going to be talking about ideology all day. It is true, however, that this is the second interpolation during this period and that at the first interpolation it has been relatively long. However, the second interpolation was written very quickly and this interpretation, which is in writing, speaks of one topic; this is Thompson's concert, which was not actually in Maribor. Of course, as soon as this topic began to be discussed, we in the parliamentary group made clear how we feel about Thompson and the concert in Maribor. We also presented this to the Slovenian public, perhaps among the first. Let me stress that we have also responded to this topic several times and said that a person who promotes national, racial, religious or other intolerance has nothing to look for in Slovenia. And here we are Members of the Group of Members in full unity. However, we are not united in the vote on the work and political responsibility of Minister Hojs. Mr Hojs has expressed interest in me in talking to us about interpretation, and we have given him this opportunity, of course. No matter who asked, everyone in our group would have it. Most of Mr Hojs has convinced how these procedures have been conducted and these procedures have actually been carried out, as he explained in the administrative procedure: someone has issued a decision, someone has signed this decision. All those who worked in the public sector, at any level, were able to see this. And under this decision, Mr Hojs was not signed. But since he's a minister, of course, he's partly responsible for not knowing that the officials wrote to him. In this part, of course, he assumes a certain responsibility. We cannot say that we have not been united as to how we will vote within the parliamentary group. The public is already talking about one matter, we know about our case, and in the end, I will say that we will vote in the way we will vote in our own conscience in accordance with Article 82 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have the floor, Comrade Zmago Jelinčič Noblemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u10	That's a nice hello to you all! It is interesting how today's presentation of the signatories of the interpolation began. Mr. German said: "I have before me the irrevocable resignation of Minister Hojs." That's a very interesting diction. Where did he get that document? Did the NPU make an effort to give Mr. German a document? If someone says they have an irrevocable resignation from Mr. Hoys, it can only be understood this way. This just proves something, and this is that it is a willingness to withdraw Minister Hojs from one of the components of breaking down the current government, taking power into hands and continuing to market and open up those pipettes from which the huge amounts of money flowed. Given that nothing is being resolved, I can say hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros. If I add up that Iranian money they don't want to explore at the NPU, that's another billion euros. In short, it's very interesting what's going on here. In fact, it is said that the most controversial decision of the Minister is that he allowed the concert to be performed by Croatian singer Thompson. In the Slovenian National Party, we are absolutely against any Ustasha singers singing their songs here, storm songs. And it's a good thing you don't let that happen. But it's not the minister's fault. The administrative court, which is in the hands of the SD Party, the Social Democrats, has determined that this concert must be. Who's to blame here now? The Administrative Court decided and requested, and two officials at the Ministry of the Interior confirmed and allowed this. The minister certainly didn't know anything about it. It's not his fault. The interpretation, however, is largely based on his allowing this singer. No! No! In the Slovenian National Party we also said that when we found out that this concert was going to be, we said, but then if anyone raises their hand in a Nazi or Ustastic greeting, they should be taken away and the concert cancelled and cancelled. Interestingly, according to the information I received, the police signed a written contract with the organizer of the concert to ensure order and peace. Why don't we ask ourselves who signed this written contract with the police? The one who signed it was a member of the left political province. Very interesting. But that's not what this is about. We're talking about an NPU case. To a large extent, there is also talk of the Minister interfering with the functioning of the National Investigation Office. And yet that's where there's so much crap that it's hard to just freeze and wait for the mine business to happen. The NPU didn't investigate, like, Iranian money. How did Slovenia get so much money from a country on the list of terrorist supporters? Nothing happened. It is also interesting that the NPU did not ask itself why huge millions of money for building a mosque in Ljubljana, contributed by the country of Qatar, which is also on the list and which supports terrorist acts. Nobody cares about that. On the other hand, it is interesting that in one case, called the paper station Radeče, some Arab co-owners, who were also declared by the Indian Intelligence Service as supporters of terrorism, have also informed the Slovenian Embassy, and the Slovenian Embassy has also informed our authorities that should react, and nothing has happened. Here I have – I have not brought all the papers – but this is one busy piece of paper talking about these games and talking about the financial games involving the SD party's senior representatives, the Social Democrats. The media also published several photographs and names of gentlemen involved. What's funny is that in this case in Radeč, where it's a big mess, the National Bureau got the papers, they got the papers, they got a quick look at them, then they handed it all over to the Police Department in Celje, they looked at it, they sent it all together to Laško, and there they all looked at some kind of cop who's mostly involved in traffic offences. After all, Laško is not such a big city that he could deal with high crime, and because of his inadequate knowledge of money flow, fraud, bribery and the like, he did not know what he would do. He said, "I didn't find any signs of a crime." And the matter is sitting down. This case was then returned, and nothing happened. Interestingly, Mrs Katičeva, at the Ministry of Justice, who also visited Radeče very often and talked about certain things, was at a time when this should be regulated. The punishment was then led together by Mrs Giacomelli, I think it was the President of the Cell Court, and against this Mrs Giacomelli, a criminal complaint has even been filed. I don't know what's gonna happen. We'll see what happens. The case was handed down to the Special Prosecutor's Office and the NPU, first in mid-2018, then four more. 4. 2019, p. 21. Ten. 2019, and then six more. 4. 2020 and 1. 9. 2020 – nothing happens! It is evident here that the NPU is bringing together, as well as other institutions, even at the level of the Prosecutor's Office, a certain case into a drawer or a cabinet from which they never come out. We've already had this case with the Iron Attorney, who had a whole bunch of different applications in his closet, and nothing happened. I'm afraid nothing will happen here, too. But it's interesting which gentlemen are involved, I've got quite a bit of information on how the NPU is going on. Certain criminals who want to work are actually working hard because of this – this has also been published – that there are three who are exerting pressure on NPU criminals. It says here that it's Rock Flower, Gregor Novak and Mitja Gregorc. I think it's along with, as I've been told, Erzen Nietz, who is to a large extent, as I've been told, the designer of various of these plots. It is interesting, however, that one of the above mentioned was once a debtor, which seems to be the right qualification for the National Investigation Office, and is still reportedly sending out a variety of data to the company – unverified – and giving those things that should remain secret and closed within the National Investigation Office. Even so far, because I'm going in their noses, I found out that one of these people – who apparently even changed his last name, that he had a different last name before, down from the south, and now he's been renamed Slovenian – was able to do so with the help of some to persecute me for illicit production and trafficking in weapons and explosives. I don't know how that's possible, but I've got an open case in the DA's office that I've been dealing with trafficking and manufacturing, weapons and explosives. I mean, this shows all the corruption of certain circles at the NPU! Besides, I have an open case, I hear, about Azerbaijan, that I was bribed. The case has been going on for quite some time, and once I get the D.A.'s information, one case is going to wear off in 2030. Here you can see what the purpose is. By law, whatever it is, it can't go any further than 2030, but at least ten years earlier. But no, it is necessary to destroy someone who has a long language, if we say it in Slovenian, in an easy way, or one who is prepared with documentation to show what kind of shit is going on, because such a person has to be removed. Now they're trying to remove me in such a way that they'll count these things for me. As I said before, one statute of limitations in 2030, on the other, is to say, with regard to that bribery, so-called, which was already found by all levels, that there was no bribery, that there was no crime. However, there is another matter at the Special Prosecutor's Office, this is the Azerbaijani, where it says: Obsolescence 27. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Please! What are you doing?Oh, my God! What are you doing?Oh, my God! Of course, it is necessary to remove the minister who is problematic! Some say that we are approaching the time we have already spent, from 1945 to 1949. But I'm concerned that we're getting close to that time or the repetition of that time. The methods are about the same, slightly more subtle, because they apparently read the history of some intelligence services in the former Germany at the time of Nazism than Joseph Gehlen, or they studied at Geheim Staatpolis, says, at the Gestapo, or perhaps at East Stasia, which was even more concrete than the Gestapo. We're going in this direction that we can't afford. Therefore, the destruction of a minister who wants to settle these matters is essentially an anti-State action. Such matters as the minister wishes to clear up so that bribes, frauds, and the like will not come again, are quite another thing. It is interesting that almost all these matters involve members of certain political parties. Significantly, they are mainly members of the Social Democrats. Here I have criminal charges, a statement of suspicion, damage to public property and so on; again a whole series of documents in which a former officer for internal affairs is present, namely the current mayor of Murska Sobota, a member of the SD, who was indicted by former Mayor Anton Šichec for a whole series of crimes, and nothing actually happens. The matter lies in the positions somewhere in the drawers, deep down and to Mr Alexander Jevšk, who is the one who was surrounded by the former mayor of Murska Sobota, nothing happens. Even if we look at an NPU appeal against former Minister Vlačič, including a member of the SD, for some black construction, he is also lying somewhere in one drawer. Interesting things! What is the issue here, of course? It is contentious that some must do their utmost to ensure that the current Minister of the Interior does not require a review of how certain authorities did not work where they should work. It is funny that some are more interested in their own position than in the development of the country. A man would expect, and especially in the Slovenian National Party we expect to do everything for the development of our country, to move forward; but if you want to move forward, you must pay off the old debts first. Old debts are an interesting thing. The old debts are those who shed a bad light on the whole country, on the whole system and the bad light on everything we fought for in 1991 — at least some — and who, at least some of us, also pressed the trigger, and also to shoot at us. There were not many of us, but some of us were willing to take risks, so today for sure because it started shooting, but not yesterday, for sure, because this is a big disappointment, what some are willing to do for their promotion, for their money, for their finances and for everything. And everything can be arranged. Everything can be arranged, but it can only be arranged in such a way that things collide together to replace what is bad. And if we have a basket of apples in which one of the apples started to rot, it doesn't help you take the apple out and cut it off and put it back. You have to throw it out, because if you give it back, it'll all rot away. And that's what needs to be done. That is why we will by no means support or support the interpretation that has been tabled against Minister Hojs today. This interpolation is also a product, I would say, a lack of ideas, a lack of reflection, a lack of actual conditions or an analysis of the actual situation and a lack of facts. It's one ad hoc option, how to guess how to destroy and how to convince people around that there's something wrong here. One proverb says the worst thing is when a thief yells, you catch a thief. That is exactly what is happening now; they want to cover up those frauds, those briberys and the money spills that the previous gentlemen have done. And when it is said that Minister Hojs wants to clean up and replace and replace certain personnel that are supposed to act politically, they are, first and foremost, but with the new ones that are supposed to be in favor of the current authorities, I am sure that he replaces them with quality personnel, not with politically processed and targeted personnel. But I can tell you how politically oriented the personnel were a while ago. When the Slovenian National Party was in Parliament before this seven-year break, Mr Rado Bohinc, then Minister of the Interior, ran through the Ministry of the Interior and shouted: “Elinčič must be closed!” and Jelinčič was, of course, put to court and here also assisted Mrs Richter, then Minister of Culture, that she did not want to pay the debt she had – and still has – the state to me. Madam Minister has worked hard, too, from the same political option. Then it all went down in court, and nobody got hurt. It's nobody's fault. Gentlemen fuck, because this gentleman was still in power and was in power until yesterday, if I paraphrase a little. This has to stop for once! Things need to be cleaned up, things need to be settled, things need to be told how and what, and then we move on together. Stop tearing it down. Help! Slovenia is not in an enviable position, it is not in an envious position, and all pigs, either here or there, must be cleaned up. And we'll clean them up. Just, please, the things I've been talking about are full. I brought a piece of documentation. They send me documents from different people. Various people, and these copies of applications for the prosecution, for the NPU and so on. But nothing! Let's say here, too, about this paper place Radeče. I must say that the paper shop would not have been happy if it hadn't been for the first term, it was Minister No, because it doesn't matter, but, together with that minister, we made sure that Radeče Paperhouse got a loan to stay and stay. [[…]] At that time, Mr Hražnik wrote a thank-you letter to me, thanking me for the fact that this was left to go to hell. But today it goes to hell! Here, let's say who he's dealing with or who he is, who he's getting the money from back there, when he's showing 35,000 euros a month from the paper shop in Dubai and then he's coming back and then he's recapitalising and so on. Here is, for example, en Usman Shaikh, Emkaan Investments, LLC, Emirates, Emirates Financial Towers, DIFC Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. So what? These people are blacklisted, but we don't care. This case went to the D.A., and the N.U.U., and nothing happened. The case that was also mentioned today, or described as a terrible thing, is that Mr Kangler should have intervened in one matter concerning his friend Hojs, as they say. First of all, it wasn't any friend. I think that Mr Kangler has a negative attitude towards this gentleman; but the fact is that this Mr Hojs has sent two letters to Mr Kangler, who is the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of State has forwarded these two letters forward, which is his duty, since it is the duty of a police officer at the highest level to transfer the documentation and requests he receives further. He didn't say anything, so that's how you have to do it, just, I got this, look what it is. The fact is, there's a lot of crap behind all this. Whoever's involved, I hope it comes the day the matter opens. I think it's high time, it's high time things were cleaned up, things were settled to a certain extent, and those people who were compromised to be replaced. As I was told how the NPU was created, this is the invention of former Minister Katarina Kresal. She wanted to do one, I would say, her police unit – during Hitler’s time, he had Leibstandarte – and something like this was meant to be for Mrs Kresal. Mrs Kresalova then received a little per head due to her machinations at the NPU building, her friend Mr Pogačnik, of course, as well. After that, he was written down quite a few million years later, as millions of Mr Jankovic is written down, and nothing to anyone, because he is on the right political side. So one wonders. It's about time we cleaned this up. The fear of cleaning this up is so evident and so powerful that this government must be overthrown. It's not about the facts, it's not about the things that stand. It is only important to overthrow the government, and then even if it goes to hell, only that we will be at the top of the throne when everything goes to hell under us. But in Slovenia there are more and more of us who do not want Slovenia to go to the devil. Which we want cleaned up, which we want things to be based on the right foundations and to be built on these foundations by the state. From these foundations, not from some fraudulent, corrupt variants. We've got too much of this. Well, look at how things count. Now a little less, but we still hear the same people everywhere, the same representatives of certain options who still want to cut through state money. Of course, the media helps. First of all, this national television, when we watch a whole bunch of people doing TV commercials every day, how good, how smart it is, without it, we're gonna die. Please! Greece did what we should; it shut down its national television overnight, and it reopened it within a month, reducing the number of employees by about 60 percent. We should do the same, because our national television is really scary. When we look at who they represent and who they call to the shows, it is clear that those who could say something direct and who would not blow their horn are avoiding. Or one that can be manipulated without knowing what nonsense they say and so on. And that's what we're paying for, that national television is a waste of lies. That 2 thousand 200 plus another 400, which are attached to this public institution – please, the state is not doing anything good! I've also talked about some people from the NPU before. One interesting case, which was the last time, was also discussed in court, how an NPU official borrowed 6,000 euros from a certain person to make a virtual drug buyout. This ransom was made, but this man from the NPU who lent him the money doesn't want to pay it back. Please, please! You can imagine how we would work with such an agent in some normal countries where the police are normal and where such a special organizational unit is responsible for the destruction of crime, drug trafficking and the like. I was told that the NPU was designed in such a way that they actually selected the largest experts to hold jobs. And these top experts, of course, have significantly higher salaries than ordinary criminals who do 90% of the job, do something small at the NPU. But mostly they turn to lower units, and then, what's done, they brag about it. For example, they took as a bank specialist, as they told me, someone who had previously been on the counter at the bank, which was treated by customers. I doubt that this is some kind of big banking expert, because a man would judge that you have to have more than that kind of practice for banking expertise. People like that don't belong in there, in those positions. I think today, when the interpolation fails, the minister will be given an additional impetus to clean up certain institutions. You don't have to blame those who are guilty of getting shot, and I don't know what, but you have to sit with them and make a deal. Putin did well for certain things, so that he wouldn't spit on his own country, he called those tycoons of his own and told them, sir, we have this and that and that anyway. Give the state what's national, and we'll close our eyes. That's what you can do. This is a meaningful solution to all this. But not that it breaks down the one who might want to do something in that sense, but is being demolished to further the same practice. That's not gonna work. This documentation I have, I'll probably, I don't know if it makes sense, I'll hand it over to certain institutions. Although I thought that, above all, Mr German, who was the head of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, would be more committed to cleaning up matters, not to protecting all those who had done such or other abominations so that I would not use anything else. But, it seems, Mr German has the task of protecting one thing and not allowing certain other solutions. Yesterday we had a proposal for certain decisions, for which Mr German did not even know whether they would be voted on or not to be voted on. He didn't put them to the vote because he ruled that way, and I won't put them to the vote, and that's it. It does not even know whether or not it would have been accepted. Such ex cathedra decision-making is by no means part of the democratic parliamentary system. There's also a lot of things to do, change and fix here. I just wish to the Minister that he would not run out of desire and will to get the country on the right track, to settle matters and to save what is yet to be resolved. Many times, I can say or think that some cuts will be severe and must be severe. For those who are guilty shall be guilty. Not that he accuses and condemns certain people simply because they are not political on the right side, and in order to say yes, we will be able to squeeze them — as you wish. As with me, it is said that illicit production and trafficking are weapons or explosives. Please! I'm a registered weapons collector. And if anyone's guarding these things the way they're supposed to be by law, it's me. I'm sure because I don't want anything to happen, because then I don't have the collection anymore. And then they give me one thing — stupidity, total stupidity! I'm also going to get these papers and I'm going to read what the NPU gentlemen wrote and what they're asking for, and what the D.A. requires of it, and why he doesn't want to throw it away. I'll find out everything. Don't worry about me finding out. But of course, as long as it's open, they'll try to squeeze me. Despite the fact that it is already fundamentally wrongly written that it concerns the statute of limitations of 2030. I don't know why they didn't write about the 3020s. In fact, this is also to be expected of our organs. But I think it's starting to go in the right direction. Also, today we are talking about interpreting against Minister Hojs is actually a matter that is going in the right direction. This is where it started, and it will develop from here on out, and I am sure that things will settle in such a way that we will eventually have a once-in-a-lifetime, fair and no longer corrupt and stolen state of Slovenia. Once again, we will not support this interpretation in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u11	Thank you. Procedurally, Comrade Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. I admit that I have a slight problem here because I have a presentation on my agenda on the positions of the groups of Members. I have not yet heard a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Well, at least the Deussies told us why not. You know, I would suggest to Mr Tribal what he suggested to Damian Murk to write a biography, because I would be happy to read all of this and also buy it for my own pennies, Victory. But if this is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, the chairman, let this be it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u13	Comrade Trček, each and every one of you should assess whether this is about presenting the views of the groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u14	Not by yourself, you run this session, you have to stick to the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u15	No, buddy Duck. Please act normal. It's just that I'm gonna take your word for it. [[…]] I'll take your word for it, buddy Duck. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u16	I'm acting more than normal. Take the course of the meeting and we have presentations of the views of the non-member groups at the meeting by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u17	The President shall have no right, except exceptionally, to intervene in the words of the other speakers. I hope we understand each other here. Because when this starts to happen, then I'll be able to modernize everyone's position or speech. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm not. No, Comrade Victory Jelinčič, we will conclude this, this intervention because it was unnecessary. The next one's got a colleague of mag's word. Branko Grims, who will present the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. A very nice greeting to all, and especially a nice greeting to the heroes of the third floor, which is dedicated to this bow that I wear today. With this request we received in the National Assembly, I responded, including some colleagues and colleagues. It is intended for those in the haematological-oncological department of the Paediatric Clinic and all other sick children. In our common name, let me first wish everyone as soon as possible and as full a cure as possible. I would also like to see all those who build on intolerance and on falsehoods and ignorance of law healed in the National Assembly. Otherwise, what is before us today is what is called the Interpellation of the Labour and Responsibility of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs simply cannot be explained. What is constitutionally or in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia? This is a debate on the Minister's work and responsibility, whether he works legally, in the legal sense of the word, whether policies are appropriate, and, at the same time, it is possible to make certain proposals so that certain guidelines can be voted on by a confidant or a non-truster. It's an interpolation. Does that fit the job? Let us look at the legal basis on which this interpolation is based. Minister Hojs respected the judicial decision of the Court of the Republic of Slovenia and was therefore subjected to interpretation. Sorry, but you can only sell crap like this in Slovenia by having all the mainstream media on your side. If Mr Hojs did not respect the court, did not comply with the court's decision, then it would actually be possible and justified interpretation. But once again, he respected the court's decision, and that's why he got the interpretation. This means that those who have submitted it today have no idea of the law, which is a disgrace to the National Assembly, or who knowingly manipulate the public, play on their emotions, and hope that no one will notice the sad game they are playing. There are only two options, because Mr. Minister respected the court's decision. And that's all. Let's take a political look. Did the minister do what was right because he respected the rule of law? Is that the right policy? He's a minister – watch out! – he also took a constitutional oath to respect the rule of law of the Republic of Slovenia. So this policy is the only one that's right. If he had acted in any other way, it could actually have been a legitimate interpolation. But this interpolation is here. I'm sorry, someone has no idea politically, either, or they're very ugly and rudely manipulating the net impatience. Let's take a look at the third set, an NPU-related statement. At the time of the debate, the NPU was presented as a Slovenian FBI, which will be [[Finger-toed clap]] solved all the most difficult cases in the Republic of Slovenia. Or has he now justified his actions, with concrete achievements, his existence? With all my responsibility, I say no. And as a guide to the minister, it would be worth considering even the fact that the Minister would simply break the law and the NPU and combine it with all the other systems in the Ministry, so that it will not be a country in a country that unfortunately today does not serve anything other than to cover with its softest hand the most serious crime that it does not investigate and then never experience an epilogue. And you won't believe what I heard from a few people here in Ljubljana, that individuals from the NPU even brag about it when they're in some society, that they didn't explore the NLB story, that they didn't explore everything else that was loaded by the NPU. They're bragging about it! So, there's something really, really serious systemicly wrong here. Was there then a proper replacement — of course, we could talk about the fact that it was recognized. It was the only right move any other would have been wrong. In fact, it would be necessary to continue to consider that this part is being properly transformed or that it is being turned back into a single system that will work more effectively than now, when this exception essentially allows some things not to experience epilogue. Remember, we live in a country where an individual, an ordinary citizen, was robbed of the entire house for 140 euros and sold at auction. On the other hand, we have a family here, and you all know her, and she's already been forgiven for 50 million debts. Someone's got 50 million, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em, he's got 'em. And now let someone else tell me that before marriage we're all the same! That's a serious problem. This raises the question of the constitutionality of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is questioned, is elsewhere. When it comes to, say, freedom of speech. In the whole of this story, we are witnessing one simple trick: diverting attention. There are feelings, there is a phenomenon that has to be suppressed, and there is a fire and a sword after it, so that no one can see what is really happening in the background of crime; that the most serious crime does not experience an appropriate epilogue. This is said to be an interpolation in this sense to help criminals. Do you realize the proponents of this? It's an old trick. By the way, you know, it's been a hundred years now how socialists are doing their tricks. They're for peace and equality, and that's why they can rob and kill. That's how World War II ended. They're anti-fascists, so they can commit fascist violence in the streets and so on and so forth, so I won't mention it. The shape of this trick is also this: Under the seeming persecution of crime and error, you will really divert attention so that you will not see what is really wrong in society. However, this will need to be given much more energy and attention than ever before. Then there is another simple thought that should be the basis for such a thing never to occur. Look where we really came from in this country with this constant lack of intolerance, what left-wing people do, and then, of course, they point to others all the time. But that's what happens every day. If you want one great case, just the latest – on average in Kranj we have dealt with the issue of criminality in the case of abuse of social transfers and mass immigration, where it is a question of document counterfeiting, which is of course a crime, where it is a question of abandonment of mandatory conduct, which is a crime again, where it is an open issue of sloppy work in the service, which is a crime again, which is a whole lot of other abuses. That is all we have talked about and all the conclusions that have been proposed have been virtually unanimously adopted. Everybody. They all voted in favour. Have you been able to read this in the mainstream media? You're not. But today you were able to read from a Prince something about Nazism and the netting, and who is disturbed by neighbors. Who, besides this man, talked about it? He was talking about it. So he doesn't get impatient. This is the problem, however, that intolerance is inherently a source of intolerance under cover of persecution of impatience. But here we could talk about crimes and the question of freedom of speech. I have also pointed out many times what is happening to platforms. This is what Slovenian citizens do in Slovenia, and I say that they are not above the Constitution. Mr Minister, this too would be worth looking at how legal it is when, under the cover of persecution of this or that, systematic and planned censorship is actually carried out because it wants to stop the truth because the truth is really the one that hurts someone. There's nothing else that bothers anyone, but the truth is very much. Unfortunately, every day more and that should be of great concern to all of us. This is said to be the first condition that democracy works and the freedom of the public word must not be restricted by anything as long as it is within the limits of the Slovenian Constitution. That's why I'm moving on to where I ended up before. Where did we come from? I remember when we wrote the Slovenian Constitution and after we gained our independence. It has always been a simple word on the agenda: even if we don’t agree on anything, I will do anything to allow you to express your opinion. This, ladies and gentlemen, is democratic, the only democratic. This is a reflection of understanding what freedom of the public word means; to face opinions, to face arguments and then to find an optimal solution. But what is ahead of us is a lack of impatience, and it is in a very debilitating way. Thompson and the Uprising, Thompson has repeatedly distanced himself from the Uprising. As far as I know, he even had a few court cases against those who abused it. He's been set up with a song, that's a court case if you don't know which one we're all referring to in public. It was taken by left-handed men, and then they said, "Look, this is his." Do you know about this joke? It's an old trick of this Antife. You know, in the Antife manual, which was published on the Internet a few years ago, it's nice to write, draw hackers so that you can go after those. It's exactly that trick. Thompson also publicly distanced himself from the institution in Slovenia, in an interview with RTV Slovenia. Isn't that interesting? And whoever gave him this, that was Igor Pirkovich, then he was punished for giving him his word. Here you can see that other trick of left-wingers who shout that in the name of the truth it is necessary to prevent one from speaking. Ah, run, no. Good morning! And we're in Orwell in 1984. That's the truth, ladies and gentlemen! He has publicly distanced himself from what is here based on your interpretation. Which means you're knowingly lying. It's a conscious lie, it's not like you didn't know. He said this on RTV Slovenia, you can look now and many times before – there are other stories. This is said to be all that this interpolation is based on is legal ignorance and lies and conscious ignorance of negative emotions. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a lack of intolerance, this is an unconstitutional act, this interpolation is even unconstitutional in this part. I hope you're aware of that, but I think that was your intention. Where did we come from? That he wants to ban himself from singing. See, one listens to Ceco, one listens to Thompson, one listens to even combinations, and one live in a country where, after World War II, those who sing these songs, young girls who are living in the pit of the Devil, who, for example, during World War II, in Gorenjska, in the fall end, convinced one poor child that the rose was carried to a school where it was blown up, and then – if memory doesn't keep me – 12 dead children and 10 later died. So much for the bravery that sings at it. But if anyone listens to this, let them listen. It's called patience, ladies and gentlemen. All you have to do is know the facts. And where did we come from? That one of them wants to be banned, the other one is allowed. Everyone listens to their own. This is the only normal thing in this world. That this is based on interpolation, which is very sad, because then it tells us what the real purpose is. The real purpose is to deepen ideological differences, to lose patience, to divert attention. To whom does this benefit? Certainly not Slovenia. Is this in favor of prosecution of crime? Certainly not. Quite the opposite. Is this for a better life? Who else? This interpolation is a very sad trick, which has also completely missed its purpose, because this trick works until the moment you spoil it. But when the emperor is naked, of course the matter becomes quite different. In this case, the thing is exactly what I said. Based on obvious, evident also, if you want, judicially proven lies, based on legal ignorance or conscious manipulation and based on a lack of impatience, so that people who do not know what it is actually put on some trenches and began to burn one after the other. But it wouldn't be people's fault, it's those things you come to the National Assembly. I can't believe you didn't know all this either, but I'm sure you're knowingly manipulating, which is something else. So you knew that Thompson publicly distanced himself from the Constitution, that you knew that there was a legal decision that the Minister had to take into account because it was based on the principle of the division of power. If there is a judicial decision in an area, the Minister shall take it into account. This is also the only policy that is right if we are based on the rule of law, that the right to respect must be respected and that the decision of one branch of power is binding on another branch of government. This is particularly true when it comes to the executive branch of authorities, because, unlike us here in Parliament, the executive branch of authorities must have a legal basis for each decision and must therefore respect either the laws adopted by the legislative branch of authority, or the constitutional order, when it comes to the Constitutional Court, or other decisions specifically concerning their conduct and work. This is said, in a case where the Minister has consistently and correctly respected the law, the rule of law of the Republic of Slovenia, the principle of the division of power, the court's legal judgment and the availability of correct data and also properly presented them, you have submitted the interpretation. This interpolation is indeed yes, but the interpolation about you, about yourself, because it's only about impatience, and for nothing else, so that you don't see what's really going on in this country. That we have, unfortunately, even a story in the past years about the most serious forms of crime that have not experienced an appropriate judicial epilogue. This is happening at all levels. Police know how to tell cases when they put forward proposals for prosecution, but they don't go any further, they're already stopped by some bosses. Then it comes to the D.A., and what kind of prosecutor waits so long to deal with the statute of limitations, and then quickly destroys the evidence to protect someone. This means that the person who does so is involved in the protection of crime, but protecting crime is a crime in itself — do you realize that? The suspension of the obligation to act, the negligence of work, are offences under the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia. The question of the principle of equality. We have all the cases you want every day. And that's what the minister should pay more attention to. We all agree here. Only the tasks that are now before the Minister are extremely extensive. At the same time, we have an epidemic, and at the same time we have the question of the southern border, where the situation is such that I publicly say that I am not satisfied at all. That's not right. But we have warned about this in due time and a proposal was made in time to allow the activation of the Slovenian Army, and you said then that this was less than last year. Yes, of course! Because that silence was due to the so-called lock down because of the pandemic. Now things are burning and not just for us, even in Italy I hear very, very angry voices, because the situation is not good and it is necessary to know that if we do not adequately protect the southern borders, the neighbours will close the border against us. That, I hope, is clear to everyone! Unless that's someone's goal, just be honest about it, and make it public about what's really going on. I only hope that the Ministry will take into account the proposal that we have already adopted on the Committee on Internal Policy, which I am leading, and once again propose the activation of this Article, and that it will seek other solutions to protect the border as properly as possible. I would suggest that we try to provide help from abroad, and that we have been offered something in the past, because the situation is going to get worse. There is a need for timely action here. However, all that we have talked about today must be done; it is necessary to make the Slovenian police more effective; it must be decided that the NPU will not be a state in a country that will previously hide or help to cover up crimes so that it does not experience an appropriate epilogue, but that it will be an effective criminal police as a whole that will ensure maximum respect for the constitutional order and the law. Also, the questions of wealth are repeated many times. There's nothing wrong with getting rich, just in a legal way. On the contrary, that should be the goal! But the problem is that some people are allowed everything, while others are unable to do anything because they are easily flung under their feet and they need to be given adequate attention. But the first — and thus would pass on to the final part today — is the guarantee of freedom of the public word. If that is not the case, if things do not come out from the right perspective, from all perspectives, then democracy is just a farce, and this should be the first priority and first glance and precisely the task for everyone in the government, including the internal minister. From there, however, it is necessary to ensure the effective work of law enforcement authorities and the proper treatment of the same objective; that Slovenians, Slovenians, citizens, citizens, all live safely and that we live in a state of prosperity where no one will be violated by human rights and where no one will even think of forbidding anyone to sing, perform or express their opinions. In such a country we wanted to live, for such a country we decided, such a country comes out of the Slovenian Constitution, that is our commitment, so we will not support the interpretations against Minister Hojs. I wish him to continue his successful work on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Members, List Marjan Šarc, on her behalf Brana Golubović.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u20	That's a nice hello to you all! In a democracy that respects the division of power and the constitution and acts responsibly and follows a given word, today's interpretation of Aleš Hojs would not be. Why? Aleš Hojs resigned irrevocably from his ministerial position three months ago, did not offer a resignation to the Prime Minister; he resigned irrevocably. He informed the President of the Government of his resignation, who, according to him, had also accepted the derogation. That's what Aleš Hojs said to the cameras, that's not what some secret service came up with, as one of the predecessors said in his position. This is what Aleš Hojs posted on Twitter, where he also published his resignation statement, and in the last paragraph of his resignation statement, he wrote, “so, honourable President, I inform you that as of today, I am irrevocably resigning as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.” This derogation declaration shall be made public and accessible to all, and shall be signed. Those words, this record, these sentences are unequivocal. Aleš Hojs resigned irrevocably on 30 June 2020 or 20 days after we filed the interpolation. This was filed on 9 June. With the resignation of Aleš Hojs, the object or reason for Aleš Hojs’ departure also changed. The resignation of Aleš Hojs or his resolution is now not an ideological thing, but it is a matter of respect for the Constitution, legislation and given words and some practice, when someone says, "I resign irrevocably", he resigned. Who doesn't understand what's going on here? Let's say the main reason why Aleš Hojs resigned irrevocably. Because he could not directly influence or interfere with the work of the National Investigation Office or anyone on the force. He also stated in his public statement of resignation that it was a political police controlled by a deep state and therefore resigns. This should be the point if we lived in a democratic country, if we respected the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, if we respected the ministers and ministers, that they had given their oath on the basis of the Constitution, and if we read the 115th Article of the Constitution, which speaks of the termination of the office of the Prime Minister or the ministers of the government. What's he saying? I quote, “The function of the Prime Minister and ministers shall cease when after the elections a new national assembly meets. The function of ministers as well as any other termination of the office of Prime Minister and the discharge or resignation of the Minister.” It is said that Article 115 of the Constitution, to which the Ministers swear, states that its function is terminated by a derogation. And the resignation that I'm a minister. In these cases, however, if the Minister resigns irrevocably, of course, the Constitution also stipulates that ministers must carry out ongoing business until the appointed new Minister. And this business is usually done for three months. It can't be written any more clearly in this book. Aleš Hojs swallowed a given word. He's still a minister, with full powers, even though he should only do current business. But what is frightening is that everyone has been silenced and served us with some banal reasons about the unopened envelope, that no notice of resignation has come to the National Assembly. It's public. The fact that it is in the hands of the Prime Minister that they are powerless to deal with it within the SDS. No, dear colleagues and colleagues! It is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not the internal matter of SDS. This is the purely sedition and ostracism of this coalition. And not just this thing, there's a lot of other people. It is frightening for most politicians to think that this is a normal, acceptable act and that they may think that they will forget. Nam, not in the List of Marjan Sarcas. It is a clear violation of the Constitution and a mockery of people and institutions. Any vote against the resolution of Aleš Hojs will be a vote in favour of violating the Constitution, Article 115, if you wish, and for making fun of people and institutions. Let's go to the reasons why Aleš Hojs resigned irrevocably on June 30th. There's only one reason. And it's that he's president and of course he hasn't kept his word, one reason he hasn't kept his word and resigned, only one is easy. [[…]] That is to say that the President of the Government has assured him that from now on everything will be different, that by law he does not have the authority to directly interfere with the work of the National Investigation Office or the police, but that he has all the political power, the support of the President of the Government and his SDS, and the silent support of the entire coalition and the Government that this influence is also directly exercised. In spite of his irrevocable resignation, Aleš Hojs remained Minister to carry out the latest activities in the coming months, which are not in accordance with the law, and must be carried out for the sub-systems in that country. Through the debate of Members and Members, it will be proven that the Ministry or Aleš Hojs gave illegal guidance and guidance, but proved – or I hope that this will be discussed, not only on ideology and history – that the police will continue to be recruited at its summit. Its summit is followed by people who, without any doubt, help to remove those who investigate the conduct and actions of this government, the SDS parties, some ministers and secretaries of state and friends or various advisers of this government and its members. Two days ago, even the Police Union reported blackmail and intimidation to Aleš Hojsa. But this government with Aleš Hojs has not stopped only at the police and the National Investigation Office, it is the modus operandi of this government, the pressure is constantly being exerted on justice and the judiciary and on independent media, especially public RTV. More than in silence and very quickly, there have also been very important changes in the Financial Administration, the Statistical Office and the Anti-Money Laundering Office. Under the rule of Janez Janša, for the first time in the history of our country – for the first time in the history of our country – the director of the Statistical Office was released. Perhaps the vast majority will wave their hand and say that the Statistical Office does not have some great powers, great tasks. You're wrong. The Statistical Office acquires various sensitive data daily, including legal and natural persons, and these data are mostly secret, inaccessible to the public and can only be used for statistical purposes. In the wrong hands, these raw data collected by the Statistical Office are of great value. Today, we know that Director Sursa had to leave because he did not allow the so-called Lachovnik Group to pass the rules and to search the most sensitive classified data without supervision. The government also replaced the director of the Financial Administration and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, and two former municipal councillors of the SDS became directors. By the way, Furs' leadership was replaced just at the time of inspection of the work of Geneplanet fans. Remember Ivan Gale said Geneplanet's fans were SDS business. Nor will we forget to investigate tax evasion against the advisor of the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Rok Snezic. We could also list it, and I believe that this will be said within today's debate. The mosaic of this para-state, built by the SDS with the help of coalition partners and mentioned so many times, says you are talking about a deep country – you are in fact doing it – is very fast. The goal is very clear: to protect first-class, to protect SDS and friends. In this government there are professionals who carry out their work consistently and do not care who is friends with John Janša, Matthew Tonin or Zdravek Počvalški, on the way. You're building a truly, not imaginary, truly deep state, as you like to tell others. These are the reasons why we no longer trust Aleš Hoys. After all, he resigned and did not keep his word and thus violated Article 115 of the Constitution. That's why he can't be a minister. This is also why we do not trust this government because it has simply overlooked this derogation. Everyone was quiet, nobody knows anything. First of all, this government has demonstrated by its actions that every move you make or move you make by other government institutions is so trivial that it is hidden in every move that it is a broader purpose. Artificially creating affairs and thus diverting attention from key things. Smoke bombs are being bombed, which are then dealt with by politicians, media and the public. With these manoeuvres, the attention of the public goes away from the work of any minister or secretary of state, the attention goes away from the submission of supervisory authorities – we talked about Furs, Surs, and what else we could talk about – and from the subordination of media and client training in state companies. With all these smoke bombs, the view of these key things is moving away, which are extremely important for this parallel world to be established by a parallel parastat. But this diversion of attention has another purpose. With this plan you open the space to some in the coalition so that at least part of your work can criticize or even oppose it without harm. And then they tell you that the defenders of democracy are inside this government. At the same time, I always wonder why someone should be a defender of democracy against their own government. The government itself is committed to respect democratic principles, but this is more than a rhetorical question. I believe that a lot of people in the coalition are more aware that this government is striving to eliminate all control mechanisms and to subjugate all subsystems and establish covert self-cracy. This is also made possible by the voices of NSI, SMC, Desusa. Politics I don't know anything, we don't hear anything, we don't see anything, and what we heard in Tarča yesterday, we're only interested in our ministries and our projects, the other doesn't matter, you, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, don't take the blame for the destruction of democracy in Slovenia and the construction of a deep state and the protection of the first-class. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With the fall of Aleš Hojs today in the National Assembly, we would show that there is no place in politics for autocratic politics, an autocratic approach that shamelessly goes beyond its powers and makes fun of institutions and people and violates the Constitution. But voting on today's interpolation will also show whether there is a majority that is capable of saying "no" to Janez Janša and SDS in the abolition of democracy in our country. Now no more hiding, now it will be clear with names and surnames, who really is a defender of democracy or just a defender of his personal interests. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we will vote in favour of the actual departure of the already retired minister. We will vote for a development-oriented, knowledge-based, free, patient, social and legal Slovenia, and firmly vote against authoritarian practices and the destruction of democracy. What about you, colleagues and colleagues?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats and Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u22	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The interpretation put into the procedure on 9 June 2020 refers to several extremely controversial measures carried out either directly by Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior, as some of the decision-makers at the Ministry, which Mr Hojs leads. But from the day of the interpolation until today, other worse things have happened at the Ministry and in connection with it, for example, making the Thompson case part of a broader opus of the actions of Minister Hojs. Not that it's about Thompson's little thing. On the contrary, the matter needs urgent treatment and is extremely problematic, but other, perhaps even worse, more problematic things have happened. As has already been said, the Ministry of the Interior, by its decision, lifted the ban on Thompson's concert in Maribor. We need to know that the Maribor I Police Station has proposed a ban on the concert, and the Maribor Administrative Unit has followed the rulings of the Administrative Court in a reopened procedure and has accordingly carefully substantiated the reasons for the ban on the concert. Police stations and administrative units are the ones that operate on the ground and also have the most operational experience and contacts with the real world, so their initiatives should not be over-examined. But that's exactly what happened. With political interests, the Ministry of the Interior overcame the expertise and issued a diametric counterdecision, even though it was prepared by the same officials, who first issued an acquittal decision by which they attached police stations and administrative units. I don't know if you know how the procedure for notifying a public event is. It follows that the organiser first submits the application and then, if necessary, an oral hearing shall be held where all the dilemmas, questions and facts are raised. And only after consideration shall a decision be issued either positive or negative. So the profession in the operational field, after examining all the circumstances, decides, as the real situation dictates. There is no room for politics here and it is exclusively the expertise of people who have their rich experience from the past, i.e. operational. Despite the complaint by the organiser, the Ministry of the Interior followed the profession first. However, following the arrival of the new government, the policy has been changed professionally. The Ministry, moreover, suddenly found that there were no valid reasons for banning the concert. The decision states that only the likelihood of criminal offences, such as the magnification of the constitutional regime, being committed at the concert is insufficient. You know, the probability is a rate that is also applied elsewhere and is actually mentioned in the law. For example, in the event of a serious human rights attack in the home investigation. The Criminal Procedure Act states that a house investigation may be carried out if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that an offence has been committed or that a person has committed an offence, and it is likely that certain cases or other objects may be found in this investigation, which is the subject of an investigation. So the law provides for a term of probability, and that means, if I express myself in a natural way, more than 50% of the possibility that something will happen and the Ministry will deliberately ignore and ignore the importance of the degree of probability. Moreover, the Ministry uses probability to confirm its decision in favour of the concert's option. It is not too much to point out, however, that the Probability of the Criminal Procedure Act has a significance and a condition which, if satisfied, a house investigation may also be carried out. I'm asking you if there's more than half a chance something bad is going to happen or if it's not enough. How much is it actually necessary to meet the policy? Is it right and right and wise to hire a pyroman in a pantry, and is there any chance that something serious will happen after the last one's employment there? Will you enter the area if there is more than 50% chance that you will be infected with, for example, the plague? Will you pay the lottery if you know that you have more than 50 percent chance of hitting the main prize? The answer to the last question is yes. And that should be followed by the Ministry, but it's not. I wanted to point out the fact that the probability that both Maribor I Police Station and the Administrative Unit were exposed is justified and presents a great deal of opportunity for crimes to occur at the concert. However, this has not stopped the policy of the current government. The operational experience, the expertise, and not least, the experience. There are no other explanations such as that the employees who have drawn up both decisions have received political pressure from the other. And this isn't the first time she's changed her mind. Similarly, the adoption of the Law on the Control of State Borders and the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace took place. In a second attempt to adopt laws, the profession changed its mind. Probably because of guidance, I don't know what it is and I would actually object to these two laws, although both laws are based on the basis they prepared right on the police. And where is the minister's responsibility here? If it is not possible to prove political pressure on an official who has changed his mind in another way, it is the power to report to the minister that he has resigned his duty because he could have lifted the decision and he has not done so. If the profession, i.e. the police, clearly warns that there is a legitimate fear that there will be acts at the concert calling for the commission of criminal offences, it is the duty of the minister, both legal and moral, to abolish the contested decision, but Mr Aleš Hojs has not done so. On 30 June 2020, however, he withdrew irrevocably from his ministerial position. The direct reason for this is that domestic investigations have been carried out by the police, in fact, by the National Investigation Office, in relation to the investigation into the acquisition of protective equipment. In a statement at the time of the resignation, the Minister argued that these investigations were a politically motivated work, that they were political procedures and that he accepted political responsibility in connection with this because he was on the Minister. Thus he sent his resignation to the President of the Government, which, at least as stated by the Minister, the President of the Government had already accepted – his resignation. Among other things, Mr Hojs said: "You will hardly convince me that it is not the political police, that it is not the police that is not at the service of citizens, but at the service of a deep state." At the same time, he did not think for a moment that police officers were investigating crimes or that these crimes might indeed have occurred. As a department minister, he should trust the profession he runs because he doesn't really have any left. Moreover, Minister Hojs should be the first protégé, the doorkeeper to protect this organ from political incursions, but he didn't. Minister Hojs doesn't trust the profession, yet how does he trust his political options and the information his audited personnel have. As soon as he entered the ministerial office, he took the political side and, of course, on the side of the current government. I don't know if you know how many things it takes for an investigative judge to issue a house order. First, there must be reasonable grounds for suspecting that a crime has been committed or that a person has committed a crime, and, of course, as has been said, the likelihood that things will be found which are the subject of a house investigation must be given. Whether or not the police will be ordered to investigate the house itself has no effect. The police shall only collect notices, relevant and subsequently verifiable facts, and shall transmit this to the State Prosecutor, who, of course, agrees, shall submit a proposal to the investigating judge and shall only issue an investigative judge, may issue, or refuse, an order for house investigation. Therefore, according to the Minister, the state prosecutor is also politically motivated and is also politically motivated by the investigating judge who issues the order. These are serious charges, without grounds, made by mortgages, even at the time of the investigation. For so quickly, no one can assess and claim political motivation even if it may indeed occur. After learning these facts, the only logical question is asked — why, then, give up? We can only guess about that. It may have been the minister's inability to prevent these investigations and the anger of his superior, followed by the resignation of the Director-General of Police and then the resignation of the Minister. Did the minister do this in effect? However, when passion, anger, or anger calmed down, there was a political overture by key actors that the resignation might not have been the best solution. But what do you do? The Minister was clear: he resigned irrevocably and his resignation was accepted by the Prime Minister. And here comes the talent of misdirection, which the political option in power always has in stock enough. The Solomonic solution is that the President of the Government will not open the envelope and will not officially become aware of the resignation. We have come to the paradox that the whole of Slovenia and the entire universe know that the Minister has resigned, and not only the President of the Government knows that. So what is the lesson of this story? The Minister's resignation as a unilateral declaration of will is not valid unless the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, permits or orders it. So, what can you tell the minister about his irrevocable resignation? Above all, he immediately sided with his political options and her interests, and for not even a moment did he allow himself to think that he might have a profession, that is, the police, with the prosecution and the investigating judge, perhaps right. Following an irrevocable resignation which did not take place, the Minister's new bold actions followed. One of the most problematic is the mandatory guidelines directed by the Minister of the Interior to the Director-General of the Police. This is a grave and unacceptable intervention in the independence of the police and the State Prosecutor's Office. While police guidance is specifically prescribed in the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. The law clearly explains that police orientation means systematic planning of mandatory instructions and guidance for the work of the police carried out by written guidelines and instructions issued by the Minister. Letters. Thus, the Minister has the opportunity to issue basic, annual and individual guidelines. The individual guidelines shall relate to the execution of individual tasks and actions within the police when immediate action is needed to remedy the deficiencies. Therefore, it is essential that individual guidance should be given if shortcomings are identified. And it's all good and good. In the issue of individual guidelines, the legislator provided for a limitation on the powers of the minister. This refers to the fact that the Minister does not have the power to issue individual guidelines for those specific police procedures whose orientation has been taken by the competent state prosecutor under the Criminal Procedure Act. The law is clear here. It is also determined when it is considered that the Prosecutor has taken over the direction of the police in the pre-trial procedure; it shall be counted from the moment he was informed of the offence. Since then, the Attorney General has been the master of the procedure and no more police. Never again! The law does not specify that if the prosecutor dismisses the complaint by concluding that the police or even the minister will become the master of the procedure. This is the basis for the division of power. The Criminal Procedure Act in Article 147 provides that a criminal charge shall be brought against the competent prosecutor. By this provision, therefore, the prosecutor and not the police are the masters of the procedure. Police are only a service or extended deadline for the prosecutor to detect and investigate crimes and perpetrators. Thus, it is the primary task of the State Prosecutor's Office to carry out prosecutions and state prosecutors to perform their functions under the Constitution, the Criminal Procedure Act and the State Prosecutor's Office Act. Its fundamental duty is to decide whether or not to prosecute. This is his most demanding task in the decision-making process and there is no room for any minister to check that the prosecutor is doing his job well. If the Minister tries to do so, it is an unacceptable intervention in the independence of the Attorney General; the independence of the Attorney General is one of the fundamental requirements for ensuring the rule of law. In fact, the prosecutor has a supervisory function over the police's work in the case of crimes. This requires, for example, prosecution of police officers who can reasonably be suspected of any criminal offence, and this function is also demonstrated through the examination of criminal charges and reports prepared by the police. For the prosecution is the sieve that counts all charges and all police reports. The proceedings shall always begin either by filing an accusation with the police, either with the prosecutor or by the law enforcement authorities themselves. In the investigation of a criminal offence, the police act solely under the Criminal Procedure Act and Article 148 states that they must do everything necessary to track down the perpetrator of a criminal offence, to detect and protect traces of a criminal offence and cases which may be evidence, and to collect all the notifications that may be useful for the successful execution of the criminal procedure. When the police do so, they have two options: to file a criminal complaint under Article 9 148 of the Criminal Procedure Act or to report under paragraph 10 of the same Article if they consider that there is no basis for a criminal complaint. When the Prosecutor receives an appeal or such a report, he or she has the opportunity to proceed with a motion to initiate an investigation and to dismiss the case directly. But he can always ask, not easy, but he has to ask the police to complete the complaint or report. He's not involved in this if the police don't think he's the basis for a criminal complaint to dismiss her. Even though the police consider that there is no basis for a criminal complaint, the prosecutor may, or must, require the police to carry out any further tasks that the police may impose on him and decide whether or not to proceed or to dismiss the complaint, he is informed of all the matters that the police are doing, and this is the supervisory function of the prosecutor's office over the police. What, then, is the basic message to Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior? It is the fact that he has unlawfully exceeded the powers conferred on him by the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police, which expressly commands in Article 4 that the powers of the Minister referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article do not apply to police procedures whose orientation is taken by the competent prosecutor under the law governing criminal proceedings. However, it ordered to re-check whether in five cases, i.e. the situation in Slovenian banking, Pro Plus, the bank hole, the ventricles, the cardiology of children were carried out all the necessary measures or carried out all the forecasting procedures for the suspicion of criminal services. And that's how he stood up to the prosecution, which is unacceptable. If the prosecutor is not satisfied with the work of the police or if he finds out something new, he should and should himself require the police to collect additional notices or evidence, because if he rejects this indictment, this does not mean that the case is definitively closed and that the prosecutor's authority over him has ended. The Prosecutor can restore it at any time, and therefore the cases for which the Minister ordered the audit in this respect are not actually completed and are still under the authority of the Prosecutor. According to this logic, the minister took over the prosecutor's powers and may, or should also request a review of the cases relating to the sale of weapons, the Depala Village, Patriye, and more. Then there was an inspection at the National Investigation Office regarding the protection of classified data. According to the media, the inspectors are said to even search the computers for confidential documents. In the meantime, the representative of the Police Union of Slovenia also intervened, and this control should not in itself cause any problems or controversy. However, if it is understood in the context of other pressures on the National Investigation Office, it can and is extremely problematic. Of course, we can learn and say that the competent authorities must always take care of the implementation of the rules also in the field of classified data, but the very way, the timing and the fact that the supervision was also attended by the former Police Director, Mr. Ttrnar, gives a strange picture of all the developments and goes on to be seen as an additional pressure on the National Investigation Office and individuals. Of course, the question arises why there is no supervision in other services, such as the Minister's office or the Director-General of Police. When the Police Union of Slovenia came forward and rightly challenged the case, the fertilizer started pouring into this union. It began with the instigation, the humiliation that the Minister of the Interior also performed, and in particular his eloquent labelling that the Police Union of Slovenia belongs to a political option, although it knows that police and police officers are not and must not be members of political parties. For members of the police, you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, carry out their tasks with the heart and are willing to give their lives and health to do so. Finally, they prove this every time they go to the task where their safety is threatened, and they do not wonder who sent them to the task, to the left or to the right, but go because they know it's right. Even in the self-conquering processes, we militaries have taken sides with the people and their will, and despite being labeled by the regime militia, we have played a key role at that time. I assure you that today would be no different. One of the last very worrying acts reported by the media is the intervention of the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior to verify the proceedings against a person who is in the process of a serious crime. Of course, they're targets again at the National Investigation Office. However, the State Secretary's explanation that he has merely withdrawn the matter which he has accepted to the competent authorities to verify the allegations does not hold back. The police have a well-established appeal procedure and procedures in this regard. Everyone in the police force is, of course, obliged to accept the complaint, even if it is not competent, and to withdraw it from the competent authority. But let's be honest. Who the hell calls on the Secretary of State to check out the procedures the police have been taking against him? In my opinion, he who expects his problem to be solved because of knowledge, or he could have done so through a lawyer, addressed the complaint directly to the competent service and the prosecution has a supervisory function in criminal proceedings and could have acted in the event of irregularities by investigators. For the competent service does its work properly and thoroughly, and all matters are reviewed equally, so the intervention of the State Secretary, the Minister or anyone in particular is not necessary and may be extremely problematic. The specialized State Prosecutor's Office, representing the charge against this person, was clear that all evidence was obtained lawfully and without violation of human rights. Experts are also clear, the impact of policy on open forecasting or criminal proceedings is unacceptable, only the Prosecutor can assess whether the evidence is credible and legal in this forecasting procedure. In short, the work of the Secretary of State can be understood as the use of political pressure to influence ongoing criminal investigations or as a form of indirect intimidation of investigators in the police. That is why this is an obvious and severe abuse of political position – the minister is nothing. From everything I have said, it is more than clear that they are constantly employed on the wallpaper by the National Investigation Office. The only logical question is why. Are they really doing bad? Are they really politically profiled? Or it is the procedures led by the NPU under the patronage of the prosecution and led against certain persons and organisations close to the SDS party. Is there any pressure to investigate the suspicion of illegal financing by the SDS? Funding their New24TV and what else? We'll get answers sooner or later, but later, when we get them, it's gonna be a lot worse. The conclusions of this position are offered on their own – Mr Aleš Hojs has repeatedly gravely bypassed the powers he has as minister and, according to the opinion of the Social Democrats, he can no longer serve as Minister for Home Affairs. That is why we will also unanimously support the interpretation of Minister Hojs's case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister, representatives of the government! Interpellation on the work and responsibility of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs is the second order in the mandate of the current government. By its very nature, however, it is no different from all past interpellations in past governments, which ministers or ministers who run the internal affairs department have already received almost traditionally. In view of the attitude of opposition parties towards the work of the Government and one of its most exposed ministers, it was expected after all. In the SMC Group, we expected this interpretation to be followed by a third and so on in the past weeks, but we were not wrong. It is so easy for the current opposition to intervene in the strongest institutions of parliamentary control. So that we do not get the wrong idea, there is nothing wrong with it in itself, but it gives such an impression that all the present opposition can do is run into the void, and that it is in the last days in a chilly search for new facts and new evidence that would give the Minister all that we do not find in the content of the interpretation. Interpellation is, and we all know it, meaningful if it can follow the grande finale, that is, the discharge of the Minister or Minister of Interpeel. It also makes sense if the initial relationship between coalition partners has not happened. It feels like all the boomerangs the opposition is throwing are actually coming back and hitting. [[Advertising from the hall]] Is it? If there is such a dispersion, so that we do not see this grande final, interpellation is actually just a performance for the public. At times, it is even so predictable that it is possible to predict everything in advance, including who will publish an article, who will set up a word loop, and who will catch it, or who may not catch it. All these scenarios are already envisaged for today and the purpose of such performances is clear, even legitimate, if we wish, but its effect is only one, deepening the gap between policy and reality outside and sometimes within it. In this respect, today is a lost day. All of us who are now in the hall could survive it more usefully and in particular more constructively, but especially with people who are plagued by real problems, not by a concert that was not actually there. What helps some people in difficulty today’s 17 hours of concert discussions, we honestly do not know about SMC. The reason and a key argument for the interpretation of Minister Aleš Hojs is the story of this unscheduled concert by a controversial Croatian musician. This story has a history that dates back to 2017 and has been upsetting the Slovenian public ever since, and there has been no concert on both my and our pleasure, I speak on behalf of the entire SMC Group. This fact is most important to us in the whole story and should today bear an important part of the weight of the sober political opinion of the interpelling proponents. However, the second part of the whole story is also important, legal, to which we all normally like to swear, and the interpellations' proponents have slightly silenced the floor. Although we do not read it to them, sometimes the legal aspect, as in this case, is really difficult to accept. I think a lot of people agree. Otherwise, I am not a lawyer after education, and I do not hope to say that the procedure which allowed the concert to be organised at the end of the day was indisputable, and we also support in the SMC the recent decision of the State's Attorney's Office to raise a dispute against the decision of the Ministry of the Interior. It is only the permission to perform a concert that can cause a violation of human dignity and therefore it is not justified for the State to take the responsibility of the organiser so that these measures alone may prevent the spread of hatred and intolerance by some minor measures. Constitutional rights and freedoms must first and foremost be protected by the State and not by individual event organisers. Therefore, at this point in time, it is particularly important to consider whether the current Law on Public Collections provides an appropriate basis for the effective protection of the right to human dignity or whether the administrative decision under appeal has been adopted precisely because of the lack of legal regulation. Nevertheless, we must also understand that the rule of law, which we are all working so hard for, is the same as when we are right and when we are wrong. In this particular case, the interpretation of legislation, a concert that is not desirable for a large part of Slovenia, has turned on the green light, so in the SMC we appeal to all political decision makers present today in this Chamber to decide on such changes to the legislative framework that can provide the administrative authorities with an adequate legal basis that such events can undoubtedly be banned. The possibility of performing the concert itself of a controversial musician in Maribor has upset many, including our client. We do not imagine that in the midst of a city that paid an inhuman and unfair price during World War II because it did not give in to the protagonists' aspirations of the national socialist regime, then a good 70 years later should be hosted by a musician who does not hide his sympathy for the equally problematic Ustakist regime. 63. Article 63 of the Constitution is clear: any encouragement to national, racial, religious or other inequalities and intolerance is unconstitutional. One is the plurality of opinions, one freedom of expression, but when we talk about rejection attempts to rehabilitate works, it is the duty of each of us to make a clear distinction between what we want to be and what we reject. If this section in the parliamentary debate is clear and unequivocal, then we can all go more pleased. Indecently and for us, music and other water are turned to use to revive unacceptable ideas. It is inappropriate to welcome creators who are powered by content or production from disputed backgrounds. A similar thesis comes from the opening part of the Minister's response to the impressions of interpretation, which I will quote on this point. So the Minister wrote down, "I do not in any way magnify the Constitution, or in this part I fully agree with the police as a proponent of the ban on concerts, and the Maribor Administrative Unit that any magnification of the Ustasha regime is an unacceptable and unacceptable conduct." End of quote. But a short walk with a mouse or finger on the Internet shows us that this is full of photos, after all, members of parliamentary political parties with concerts of musicians who, according to our firm belief in Slovenia should not perform. For the same reason as the Croatian musician should not perform whose name we will certainly hear too many times in this Chamber today because there is no room here and because I do not belong. In this sense, we must admit that all of us should have shown that resentment, as we showed at the planned concert of the Croatian musician, had been quiet before. Slovenian stagers regularly host musicians who would be more than on stage being held behind bars, but some were even there. All of this points to our duality and incoherence. First, with duplicity, we will have difficulty in discussing the proposed interpretation today. It is a matter of levels that go beyond policy and require a high level of reflection, which is strongly distorted by the management of all types of functions. And secondly, with inconsistencies, we have to do it. We must consistently assess the findings of the interpellation motioners which report to the Minister of the Interior that he has complied with procedures and regulations. Be careful that he complied with the procedures and regulations! Even if we do not agree with the outcome of these procedures, especially if we are consistently on the legal side of the country not only in the case of Poland or Hungary, but also in the case of Slovenia, then we cannot challenge it. From this point of view, we cannot support the modern Centre for Labour and Responsibility of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs. The argument by the proponents did not convince us, even though we wanted to agree with the objective of not performing the concert as such because of a very similar view of the contested musician. But we need to be honest and consistent and to judge the work of ministers through what we can judge in this Chamber at all. That is why we also expect fair play from the opposition today. It would be good for the Minister to make clear in the debate what is written in the text of the interpretation, but not everything else that is not found in the interpretation text, but we can predict in advance that today will happen. And the concert, which we will be doing all day, thanks to the opposition, free advertising, in the minds of those who have seen a good business opportunity in it, will become the past. The past in the heads and at the dump of political history forever.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The positions of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Good-bye! Let me point out immediately, what we have heard in the previous presentation of our views, that we are truly surprised in Levica that we are still dealing with a minister who has resigned — and has given up irrevocably — more than two months ago. After reporting to the media at the press conference on 30 June 2020, Aleš Hojs informed the entire Slovenian public that he was irrevocably withdrawing from the position of Minister of the Interior and, of course, sent his resignation statement to Prime Minister Janez Janša and published all of this on social networks. Immediately after that, a great deal of sedition began. Aleš Hojs, I emphasize, did not offer a resignation, he has made an irrevocable withdrawal. Janez Janša is, of course, saying that he did not open the letter, but the content of the letter is accessible to the general public of Slovenia. Thus, all of this is a mere hoax that we have never seen before. Of course, the President of the Government should inform the National Assembly immediately of the Minister's resignation. This is discussed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in Article 261 and, more importantly, by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 115 of the Constitution states, inter alia, that the Minister shall cease to serve as Minister with his resignation. If the Minister declares his resignation in a letter, the President of the Government shall allow him to continue his work as Minister, thereby eloquently violating the Constitution and the law. In this case, in a letter to the President of the Government, the Minister's declaration is that he resigns, and that is why this constitution and law are also violated by a minister who continues his work, even though he knows that he has given up irrevocably. We should draw a line here, draw a dot, and today we should not even talk about interpretation, because this minister should in fact no longer be in his position. And today we are dealing with Aleš Hojs, who, by his free will, has already resigned. Even if we think of everything else, but of course we can't do everything else and we can't do it, but we suggest, dear Members and Members, that we take into account the Minister's wishes and that we today resolve all the sufferings that the Minister of Home Affairs brings to him. In Levica, of course, we agree that, in the event of the admission of a concert by the Huja pro-USTA player Mark Perkovic Thompson, Minister Aleš Hojs violated the Constitution and that is why he should leave his post. Unfortunately, however, the incident is only the top of the icy mountain of anti-constitutional, illegal and also extremely controversial actions by Aleš Hojs. The list of its violations of the law and the constitutional order is much longer. Perhaps in a comparable country, the Prime Minister himself would have dismissed such a minister. But we can't expect that from the current Prime Minister of the Government. We can expect additionally controversial appointments, not the resolution of those who should be resolved. Let me tell you what we're trying to say to Aleš Hojs in the first place in Levica, that you're not all just going to make excuses for this concert. Firstly, personnel exchanges in key positions in the Slovenian security and intelligence system. In particular, in the police and at the Ministry of the Interior, when the professional staff have been replaced by politically obedient personnel with a view to influencing criminal matters involving members and supporters of the SDS party. Secondly, illegal pressure on police work and objective and subjective responsibility for police repression over Friday's protests, especially in April, May and June this year. Thirdly, an illegal request for a review of criminal investigations conducted by the NPU and other illegal guidelines and mandatory instructions to the police. Fourthly, the illegal emergency control of the NPU and the fifth, the conflict with the unions, the violation of trade union rights in order to undermine labour organisation within the police. We are convinced that the guidelines and mandatory instructions given to the police leadership by Interior Minister Aleš Hojs and the ministers are also visible and evidentiary tendencies towards police submission and political pressure on the work of the investigative authorities show unequivocally that Minister Hojs wants to run the police politically – this is the border that the minister should never have crossed. However, because of its virtually every day of its term of office, it is high time for us to dismiss it in the National Assembly, regardless of whether we belong to the opposition or to the parties to the coalition. Members and Members of Parliament are obliged to protect our constitutional order and our democracy. We owe this as representatives of the people to citizens and citizens, and ultimately to ourselves. We are not here to compromise, on behalf of party interests, one and the other, or even assist in beating democracy, freedom and the real rule of law; the rule of law, which has just run so many words at the level of the European Union. We are here to defend and defend the highest democratic standards, unless we want to follow the path of Hungary. I hope my friend Perič, who spoke of some boomerangs earlier, listened to me well. As it is said, the core of today's interpolation is built around the minister's unprecedented incident in connection with Thompson's affair, but it has already been gathered here for the entire record of the minister's actions, which would each deserve an interpretation or ministers' true and unimaginable derogation, as we have just witnessed, and which is in general a fugitive in our current practice. And let's get a little deeper and focus on the pressure first on the National Investigation Office – the NPU. Over the past few months, it has reflected in the public the alarming phenomenon of endangering autonomy and professionalism and political cleansing in independent institutions of the State; in institutions that should be independent and autonomous. In the spirit of increasing terror and the will of power, we are sliding over the edges of fundamental democratic standards, which are undoubtedly two of the most recent incidents that Aleš Hojs has made available to himself in his very extensive record of the work at issue. First time. First, at the beginning of August of this year, the Minister of Interior, in his irrevocable resignation, Aleš Hojs, ordered Andrej Jurič, the interim Director-General of Police, to carry out a review of certain criminal investigations already completed at the National Investigation Office, the NPU. Shortly thereafter, on 19 August, a new attack was followed on NPU investigators, when he gave extraordinary control over the protection and handling of classified information to the Chief Inspector of the Internal Affairs Inspector Severin Pek. Let us take a closer look at the illegality of such an audit. The section points out that only and exclusively the prosecutor and no one else, at least the minister, can open an individual investigation for the back. The Minister of the Interior cannot therefore impose audits for criminal investigations directed by the Attorney General. The law on police organisation and work does not contain the concept of audit, which is stated by the Minister in the mandatory instruction of the Police Director Juric in an irrevocable derogation. There is also no known practice to verify individual investigations. The Minister in his irrevocable resignation therefore strongly exceeded his powers. And that's it! And that's why I'm supposed to fly away right now. According to the minister’s assurances, the audit should be carried out by police officers who are not infected with a particular matter — whatever that means. On their findings, Director-General Jurič will have to report to Minister Hojs once a month starting on 17 August this year. Of course, it is not even known by what criteria the so - called impartiality or infection of police officers are or will be detected. Are they going to have to be SDS supporters? Are they going to have to become that? Police employees are shaken and rightly understood as political pressure due to instructions and mandatory guidelines by Minister Hojs. After many warnings from the profession, it is quite clear – the Minister has eloquently exceeded the powers laid down in the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. We can therefore only conclude that Hojs's intention is to influence and pressure the work of the prosecution and to continue hunting witches at the NPU; that is, those criminals who are not politically bound by the largest ruling party. This audit is not only a serious threat to the prosecution because it interferes with the independence of the professional work itself and is a threat to the independent professional work of the police, it also goes directly to the detriment of the rights of employees and employees in the police. So, again, Minister Hojs, in his irrevocable resignation, pleads that he ordered the audit — because it is his belief that the cases are closed — and that the state prosecutor no longer directs them. That's not true, and that's what the experts said! In fact, Hojs, by order of the review of specific cases, intervened in the jurisdiction of the State Prosecutor’s Office, as the cases closed were still within the power of the Prosecutor because they could be reopened at any time. And that's the whole point of this story. And in this is the point of all the conjecture and lies of Aleš Hojs, the minister in his irrevocable retreat. And that's what the profession warns us about. But here, the representatives of the coalition, unfortunately, are pretending to be quite amazing. The Minister of the Interior in his resignation, Aleš Hojs, therefore, by order of the criminalist to revise the procedures already completed by the NPU, crossed the border of the democratically permissible; the one that distinguishes the police from the political function. The provision for the revision of the procedures already completed is an illegal policy intervention in the work of the police and justice. Let's ask ourselves why they don't open up, say, hidden, under the carpet of blurry stuff from the SDS; say, Patria and Zvon One, Zvon Two, money launderer at NKBM, credit business with Dijana Djudžić and so on. Why? Let's ask ourselves! I think things are clear. Aleš Hojs, in his resignation, will also look into the fact that the Minister ordered a review of certain cases already completed, those whose epilogue of criminal investigations was by no means the case of a party to the SDS. It is clear that I would like to obtain important information in police files, information that could be used and misused by the SDS party in the future in its political work and to account for targeted targets. It is obvious that Hojs is looking for a repeat of those procedures that SDS set up with its investigators in the National Assembly. Because of all this, the Slovenian Police Union has clearly announced that the guidelines and instructions of Minister Hojs are legally inadmissible. A secret meeting was also held on 10 July 2020, which was not announced to the public, nor to the cabinet of the President of the Government or the Supreme State Prosecutor – a visit by Attorney General Drag Šketa to Janez Janša. The Attorney General met with the President of the Government immediately after the attack on the prosecution and two weeks before Hojs' instructions to the Director General of Police. The public has not been informed of this meeting. They say that they have no authority to interpret the law governing the organisation and work of the police. It is also unknown why they did not know about the meeting at the College of the Supreme State Prosecutors, whose members are individual Supreme or Senior Prosecutors, and the Criminal Law Authority. And why, after all, did this meeting lead to the Prime Minister himself? However, this is all sufficiently coherent and yet another indication of how the government of Janez Janša wants to subordinate itself to the judiciary in addition to public broadcasting and the media, in addition to the NPU and other independent institutions in the country. And there's something else about illegal control in the NPU. While the black clouds of the review of the last part of the NPU criminals have not even been blown, a new attack was already under way, following on 19 August 2020 – an extraordinary surveillance of the protection and treatment of classified data ordered by Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Interior of Severin Pek. At the NPU, inspectors immediately stepped in and searched the computers and, imagine, searched for confidential documents. It is clear and unequivocal that the attack on the NPU and on institutions that must be independent and autonomous in their work is an attack on the country. And something other than an attack on the NPU, this mentioned event took place on August 19th, when a group of internal affairs inspectors stepped on the Ljubljana Litostorska Road into the premises of the NPU accompanied by former Police Director-General Anton Trinar. Another interesting thing is that in early July the Internal Minister resigned from Aleš Hojs for the Head of Internal Affairs of the Inspectorate appointed Severin Pek, a man who does not have any valuable experience in this area, according to inspection or criminality. For the last eight years, he has been the head of the general service of the Maribor firefighters. Of course, it has another quality, which apparently counts more according to the new one. He's a personal friend of Secretary of State Frank Kangler. Thus, Pek ordered, as soon as he took office, and apparently after the dictatorship of his friend, exceptional control over the protection and treatment of classified data in the NPU, to be determined by the Ministry, as they explained to us, whether employees in the NPU are handling classified information in accordance with law and regulations. The fact is that the Interior Minister resigned and the head of the Inspectorate at the Ministry of the Interior on 19 August entered an area where politics should not have entered, and in this way they found themselves outside the law. In the Police Union, it is recalled that such control is illegal and is not within the jurisdiction of the Internal Affairs Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia under the provisions of the Secret Information Act. The inspector simply does not have the right to access computers that are in the personal employ of employees, nor does he have the right to search them or the content of a hard disk. This means that criminals are not actually obliged to allow access to electronic devices because such an intervention is simply illegal and totally illegal. He also warned the new V.D. Director of the NPU Uroš Lepuš. It was also resisted by employees who, for the first time in the history of this institution, had control over the content and contact by the service computers of the investigators. Now, however, there is something about the unprecedented pressure on the police through illegal guidelines, which is an increase in the repression against citizens that these police are supposed to carry out. As a matter of fact, what I've said so far isn't everything. During the five-month period between March and July, Aleš Hojs issued eight instructions and guidelines to the police, including the number of which are illegal or otherwise controversial and problematic. All these guidelines and mandatory instructions given to the police by Interior Minister Aleš Hojs clearly show that he wants to manage the police politically. For example, for Interior Minister Aleš Hojs, fully legitimate protests against the government of critical citizens and citizens are clearly more dangerous to police officers, lives and property than, for example, paramilitary groups led by the Steier Guard. Minister Hojs also sees the hate speech only in the slogan of Death Janshism, but not where it actually exists. In short, it is not just illegal guidelines for the review of five completed criminal investigations, Hojs gives such instructions to the police practically at a monthly level. In less than half a year, he has, as it were, signed under as many as eight instructions. For comparison. In the year and a half of the term of his predecessor, Boštjan Poklukar, the police together received nine, one more than now issued eight. Among other things, under the cover of health reasons, Hojs wanted a so-called decisive action against the protestors. He ordered the police to carry out procedures to detect and investigate crimes and offences related to the outbreak of covid-19 in a consistent manner against organisers and participants in illegal public gatherings. In this case, therefore, in case of infringements, the police should take appropriate action, that is what Hojs ordered. But if he was strict with the protestors, of course this was not true in the case of the guard. On 17 May, more than 10 members of the guard surrounded the police station in Slovenska Bistrica, requiring clarifications from police officers who collected notices about their camp in Gigonca. Although the event triggered really bitter and violent public reactions, Hojs took up four days and only responded after four days. Although the behaviour of members of the guard was considered totally inappropriate and only on May 26th, as much as nine days after the raid on the police, Hojs finally gave the police direction on action against paramilitary groups. The difference between the instructions is really more than obvious. Hojs did not demand decisive action to protect life and property as he did in the event of protests, only wrote that the police must effectively reject any pressure to carry out legitimate police duties. He added that he must act in a consistent and professional manner against the perpetrators of the offence and criminal acts without delay, taking into account tactical considerations. The responses of Minister Hojs to all of this are equally unacceptable. It was through social networks that the police were called upon to punish and prosecute everyone whom he himself considered to have been the organisers of the protest or to support the protests. Then he personally went after a policeman who took pictures with a protestor and both the unions who sided with the police during all these attacks. Hojs also gave instructions because of the slogan Death of Janchism. In the same way, politically speaking, Hojs also acted in the event of an enemy speech. This Hoys guy never seemed too much of a problem. During the first refugee wave in early 2016, when Slovenian public space began to flood hate speech, Hojs cynically noted that it would be wiser to spend the money of NGOs dealing with this issue for military and police equipment. But look, in the middle of June Hojs suddenly realized that hate speech was a problem he had to pursue with instructions from the police. I state that “an enemy speech is a socially harmful phenomenon requiring an impartial and immediate response from the competent state authorities”, in the end, Hojs wrote in the document, or former chairman of the Nova24 TV board, known after the intense use of a very hostile speech. He ordered the police, I quote, “measures to consistently identify different forms of hate speech, detect and investigate crimes and crimes related to it, and detect the perpetrators”. End of story. Interestingly, he issued the instructions at a time when the slogan of Death of Janshism appeared on the posters of protestors. In the SDS and in the client of the faithful media, he was immediately identified as the threat of death to Janez Janša and the SDS voters. Hojs gave the police instructions and then, on the basis of Janez Janš's criminal record, filed an indictment for suspicion of multiple crimes. Complaints dropped by the D.A. a month ago. They were rejected, of course, because it is clear to everyone, only to Janez Janša and Aleš Hojs, not that amber is not a person, but political movement, ideology, such as Stalinism and so on. If I return to Hojs’s guidelines and instructions on illegal audits ordered by the minister in an irrevocable retreat, we can find that he has — interesting among other things! – the Jelka Godec investigation advantage. In the middle of July, Hojs ordered the police to proceed to the thorough detection and investigation of crime in the field of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. In doing so, he made it clear to them that he should take into account the findings of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. Let us now ask why Aleš Hojs has the advantage of this parliamentary investigation conducted by the SDS party. This explanation, the outgoing Minister, I am irrevocable, I expect of you here today as part of this debate. I really want to know what you're going to say, why. Furthermore, there are also illegal instructions from the Minister in his resignation concerning refugees. As a result of the violation of asylum legislation as of 1 June, according to its instructions, the unsustainable situation in the Foreign Centre in Postojna, which I had seen for myself two or three days ago. As we can see, in a half-year of unconstitutional, illegal and extremely controversial acts, Minister Hojs' instructions and actions have accumulated so much that it is really difficult to confuse them into some kind of chronology without perhaps getting away from it. Let's get back to the origins of today's interpolation, the gruesome Thompson case. The Ministry of the Interior refers in its decision to the fact that the concert was organised for the purpose of earning, not for the purpose of committing a crime. Of course, we know a lot of economic actions that make money, but at the same time also fulfil the signs of a crime, such as the sale of weapons or the sale of illicit drugs. Even in the case of Thompson, there can be no reason for us to close our eyes in the face of apparent criminal harassment, humiliation and the spread of intolerance to other nations. Resorient ministries must, of course, weigh among the different rights, but in the first place they must protect and guarantee the rights for which they are competent after the substantive division. The organiser's profits with the contested concert cannot be the argument that the Ministry of the Interior could protect the human rights of potential victims of crime. Let us also look at rapid personnel exchanges in the police and at the NIJ, in key positions in the Slovenian security and intelligence system immediately after the start of the new government, pointing out that the minister shows interest after the full management of all services with a view to concealing individual irregularities that burden individuals associated with the SDS leading party. In the first appearance of doubts about the justification of certain measures, all personnel were replaced by loyal SDS supporters; from the leadership of the MNZ, to the police, the criminal police, the military, the National Investigation Office and so on. In addition, when disclosures in the purchases of protective equipment, which could be even more extensive than the arms affair and the Patria affair together, they logically also called out calls for protests. Due to restrictive measures and bans on public gatherings, the protests not only took place in us but also elsewhere in the world in various ways that enable political expression on the one hand, while also ensuring respect for self-protection measures to prevent the spread of the virus. The protests thus took place on balconies by attaching banners to windows and balcony, cycling using protective masks and maintaining a physical distance. But in the case of legitimate protests, we clearly see an increase in repression. The main culprits are Prime Minister Janez Janša and his Minister of the Interior, Aleš Hojs, who has been exerting unacceptable pressure on the police since the beginning of his term of office and calling for the criminalisation of free political expression. In the event of the protests mentioned above, it was through social networks that the public informed the public of what the police should do and how they should do. For example, on April 27th, on Twitter, he published a report, I quote, “all those who ask what the police were doing today in Ljubljana and Maribor, and I reply that she has described a large number of meetings that will be ingrained. It will also press charges against organisers and participants, as it is a crime of endangering health. But do not expect it to be the cause of violence.” Then he added another contentious statement: “I expect that the police will use all publicly published images and contributions from media or social networks to identify all those who are required to be indicted as participants in Friday and today’s meetings. Most citizens take care of the health of all and take account of the decisions". Imagine! This is what the Minister's Twitter instructions look like at an irrevocable pace. Aleš Hojs, Minister of Internal Affairs, not only exerts pressure on the work of the police and interferes with its independence by predicting the issue of fines and the filing of criminal charges, but also exerts pressure on the Health Inspectorate, who is the only one responsible for issuing fines for violating the prohibition of public collection and movement or for determining whether circumstances for issuing a fine are ever provided. Once again, after the government of Janez Janša carried out a political clean-up and appointed its people to all the high positions in the repressive authorities, it is said that the police, the military, the criminal police, the NPU, the Minister of the Interior gives instructions on their operation through social networks. It is an unacceptable political interference with independent bodies, which the current authorities have fully subordinated. Aleš Hojs, a minister in an irrevocable retreat, has also been reunited with the Police Union of Slovenia in recent days. For the Minister, the continued payment of the Schengen allowance to the police made it conditional that the union in the public no longer mentions irregularities in the police. The union considers this to be a very frank attempt at blackmail or intimidation and a direct attempt to influence the constitutionally guaranteed right of union action. “For the sake of clear indications that this is an organised analysis, the union’s world is being transformed into a strike committee”, that was the reference. Thus, the Minister has been able to further weaken the functioning of the police and thereby increase the security risk as long as the strike in the police takes place. The responsibility is therefore fully on the part of the Minister, who, although irrevocably resigned, still ministers, who obviously is not only capable and does not understand the role he has been in, but also deliberately forces conflicts with the Ministry's employees and thus makes the ministry's work more difficult. Aleš Hojs is actually specializing everything that is wrong with this government. For example, the full submission of all independent institutions in this country for their own interests. They're taking over the police to cover up suspicious transactions, corruption and crime in which they're involved. They persecute anyone who hopes to think differently from criminals to protestors. This man is lying and deceiving every day and is also breaking the laws, so despite his irrevocable resignation, today, of course, is still the minister. All of this clearly shows that there are too many reasons why Aleš Hojs is not a suitable person for the Minister of the Interior. In such uncertain times as the covid-19 epidemic, as well as the deteriorating economic situation, there must be people in ministerial places, especially in such important places as the repressive resort to internal affairs, who consistently respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore unacceptable decisions and practices which, as in the case of Thomson, lead to the popularisation and rise of anti-democratic extreme right forces to beat democratic standards, the repressive persecution of protestors and the criminalisation of free political expression, which must be prevented without delay. In Levica, we will always fight for high democratic standards and highlight the importance of free protests and opinions, so of course we will support the intervention against Interior Minister Aleš Hojs. At the end of the day, we got new things in front of us today: the disputed purchase of the Aleš Hojsa pitch with the help of political friends. Do you know what the man who lives there said? “You are journalists, please do not write about Hojs pitch, wait until after 40 years to build us a sewer.” This is a comment from a future neighbor of Hojs because he bought this plot for free because there was no sewerage and controlled imports, the sewage and imports will now appear miraculously. Explain to yourself why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u28	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister Aleš Hojce, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia - Christian Democrats in the temple of democracy we bring stability, confidence in the rule of law and, above all, respect for human beings. We respect the one who thinks differently and are willing to talk to him and find solutions together that will satisfy both sides. Following the resignation of the previous government at the end of January and the arrival of the invisible enemy covid-19 Nova Slovenija did not want to throw the rifle into the corn and with the new elections due to its own calculus to further endanger the health of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. With the talk of various political parties, we have entered together in the legal framework allowed. Together! Together we formed the 14th Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which immediately responded very well to the difficult situation at home and around the world. After leaving the former government of citizens and citizens in the lare or at the worst of times, the current government is facing crucial problems with all seriousness. In recent months, the National Assembly has adopted several anti-Korona packages that have successfully addressed the critical health situation and the economy that is the backbone of the state budget. We restored dignity to our families and successfully addressed unemployment, which is a major problem in the post-pandemic world. In the heart of the European Union, we have negotiated a record new package of money that will turn Slovenia towards development and services of greater added value, and above all to the equal development of the whole country. We live in a very difficult time, which should unite us here in the temple of democracy and encourage us to find the best solutions for Slovenia and Slovenia. In these difficult times, opposition parties with uncompromisingness, a desire to return to power at all costs, after throwing their rifle into the corn themselves, refused to cooperate with the current government in finding the best solutions for Slovenia and focused on re-emerging on power. Opposition colleagues announced a series of interpretations in a heated media room, which they themselves had politically further heated. Interpellation of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology to opposition parties due to divergent arguments has not produced the desired effect. On the other hand, it has linked a coalition which has received additional confirmation that it works for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In Novi Slovenije - Christian Democrats we consider today's interpretation of the internal minister, Mr Aleš Hojs, as a legitimate tool for opposition parties, but we do not recognize in our actions the signs of the weight that interpretation should contain. The red thread of today's interpolation is a possible, unplayed concert, which has become a first-class political issue in these difficult times, which, in our view, should remain only a legal issue. Although the taste of music differs, respect for the rule of law and its judgment of the Administrative Court is required. Let me remind everyone present that the judgment of the Administrative Court of 11. 6. 2019 the decision of the Maribor Administrative Unit after the ban on the concert was lifted and returned to the procedure. The judgment reminds us that, in the light of the principles of the rule of law, it is necessary for the State to carry out a proportionality assessment before any exercise of public assembly rights by the State. Therefore, is it possible to achieve the objective of compliance with the legislation also by taking minor measures than an immediate ban on public assembly or event. Today's intervention against Interior Minister Hojs saves nothing, but brings even greater political tension and division. If anything, then we really need to update the legal framework, which will make it clear that zero tolerance for public calls for intolerance, incitement to hatred and promotion of all forms of totalitarianism — fascism, Nazism and also communism. In Novi Slovenije - Christian Democrats we are aware that we live in parliamentary democracy, where it is also possible that power is exchanged. In the legal framework permitted, the Director-General of the National Investigation Office shall be given the opportunity to appoint or dispose of the Director of the National Investigation Office, subject to the provisions of the Public Servants Act governing the appointment and discharge of the Director of the Authority. The provisions of Article 82 of the Civil Servants Act have been applied to the discharge and appointment of the Director of the National Investigation Office. The same legal framework used by the previous governments is not an argument for today's interpolation. A good part of the world is facing not only an invisible enemy but also the problem of mass illegal migration. Our country is no exception. Although we do not feel this problem in Slovenia to such an extent, in Novi Slovenija we have listened to most mayors, especially our citizens and citizens at the border. We passed their voice on several occasions to the temple of democracy. In our arguments we have not aroused fear, but we have cited accurate data and the difficult experiences of our citizens. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that with the release of borders after the first wave covid-19 the situation has become critical. We would like to commend the efforts and work of all members and members of the police, including the inclusion of auxiliary police officers or reservists, but on the ground we see that all the police capacity to protect the state border is exhausted. They also support the increased involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The fear of people, especially those living along the Slovenian southern border, against the mass illegal migrations that are now taking place is not meaningless and something that we can simply ignore as representatives of the people. The police data show us all the seriousness of the problem, as it can be seen from June to August this year that 26 per cent more illegal border crossings than in the same period last year. The neighbouring country of Italy and their security authorities, including their army to a greater extent with greater powers, have returned three times more persons this year than they did last year under international agreements on the return of persons. Slovenian police have already exceeded last year's level when returning persons to Croatia. All the above data are accurate and cannot be manipulated but require immediate action. It is the duty of the State to protect its citizens and its borders against illegal migration, and therefore we welcome the great involvement of Interior Minister Hojs in addressing this very serious problem. New Slovenia - Christian Democrats are the voice of the people, so we believe that re-thinking the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act would be more than justifiable. Today's interpolation of the opposition is not the voice of reason and of strong arguments, but above all it solves nothing, but it points to the uncompromising struggle of the opposition to power. Instead of interpolation, we should update the legal framework that will clearly lay down zero tolerance for public calls for intolerance, for incitement to hatred and for the promotion of all forms of totalitarianism. Of all the above facts, in Novi Slovenije - Christian Democrats unanimously decided not to support today's interpretation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u29	The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Minister Aleš Hojs is no doubt an interesting person. There is probably no doubt that it is quite intelligent, effective in pursuing its objectives, and in particular rhetorically skilled. Above all, it does not conceal its ideological and far-right political definition and does not choose words when, because of this definition, it settles with other thinkers. It is precisely because of this way of communication that, at least so, it is possible to read, is excluded from the NSI party which once belonged to it. At the hearing at the presentation of the Minister, he saw the tendency of authoritarian, autonomous leadership and the desire to control those institutions that are independent and independent under our Constitution and laws. As a result, from the first day we found out on behalf of the candidate for the Interior Minister, we in the SAB Group had warned that this could be a person who would greatly compromise the work of this government. “I am a man who likes order,” said the minister at the presentation, adding that he thinks there is nothing wrong with the introduction of order in the police, the prosecution and the courts. He highlighted these three areas and, in the opposition, he soon began to worry about the way in which the Minister represents order in these areas. Today we can say with certainty that we were not wrong, as this way of thinking is also reflected in working in practice. Such an authoritarian way of thinking and acting has taken over Minister Hojs's ministry since the beginning of this function and has, in particular, proved, at least at the beginning, particularly in the aggressive recruitment of his loyal personnel policy. But it was only a matter of time before such an understanding of authority would come to the first more serious; and this was soon to happen. As a result of the suspected purchase of protective equipment, the National Investigation Office also initiated the investigation. Among other things, prominent government representatives were being investigated. It's the minister, and it's obviously someone else, more than a distraction. The day following the house investigations carried out by the NPU also with Minister Počvalšk, Minister Hojs in public gave his irrevocable resignation. Apparently, the work of the police was imagined somewhat in its own way. He told NPU criminals that he was doing a politically motivated job. He added that the police, in his view, do not serve citizens and citizens, but work in the service of a deep state. Moreover, in his statement of resignation, he stressed that the judiciary and the prosecution also cooperated with the police in this court-party structure. But on this occasion, Minister Hojs said something more important. He said that he estimated that he had been authorized by the Minister of the Interior, and I quote him here, “not allowing direct influence or interference with the work of the NPU or anyone with the police”. What did he mean by that? Maybe it wasn't him who wanted to influence the work of the police and the prosecution, but someone else. And because he didn't want it, he gave up irrevocably. It's the only way to understand this statement. This is the only way to understand the statement that it is aware that its powers do not allow it to directly influence or interfere with the work of the NPU. Notwithstanding this statement, the rest of Minister Hojs' activities are acting in a different direction. Several experts have pointed out that it is the Minister's apparent misunderstanding of the powers of the Minister of Home Affairs. Even in the Association of Criminalists of Slovenia, they were bitter and concerned about the attacks and statements made by certain police politicians, especially Minister Hojs's statements. They do their work professionally, they said, in accordance with the laws, but they do not allow politics to be involved. If we touch briefly on the Ministry of the Interior's decision on Thompson's concert, about which there was so much talk today. In the SAB party, we agree that there is no city in Slovenia for a concert of such metal singers as Thompson. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia already prohibits the spread of hatred and intolerance. The magnification of the Constitution means the beating of human dignity, which we do not consent to in our client. We strongly oppose any hostile speech because it has a negative impact on society and unnecessarily creates tension among people. These and other findings mentioned in the interpolation have been complemented by other, totally unacceptable actions of the Minister over a long period of time, waiting for the interpolation to actually take place. The details of the instructions he was supposed to give to the police were thus leaked to the public. He's supposed to be giving instructions to the police about dealing with protestors by April. In doing so, he called on the police to use images on social networks to identify the protesters. He was, for example, much less strict when it came to the behavior of the Stairly Guard. He responded to the event at the police station in Slovenska Bistrica only a few days later with much nicer instructions than when dealing with participants in protest meetings. After replacing the leadership of the police, when the Acting Director became Mr Jurič, the Minister began to interfere with specific forecasting procedures. It is expected to require a review of a number of cases led by the NPU, including open cases. All these matters are directed by the competent state prosecutors and, therefore, by their interference, the Minister intervenes in the competences reserved by law only for them. Since much has been said about this today, these powers would not be discussed in detail. Nor are there any hidden efforts or efforts to ensure that institutions such as NPUs and similar independent independent institutions are reduced or even abolished in order to reduce their powers. Many feel that in the good middle of the year, Aleš Hojs received the worst pressure on the work of the police and the prosecution in the history of our country. We can't even get past his way of communication. In his publications on social networks, a person rightly wonders whether such communication is appropriate for someone who has such a high function. Because of the irrevocable resignation of Minister Hojs, who also made public, we have not known for a long time whether the interpretation we are discussing today will occur. Minister Hojs not only offered his resignation, but he resigned irrevocably. Not only did he propose an agreed break in the working relationship if I drew this parallel with the working relationship, but he unilaterally cancelled the working relationship, but in the National Assembly we waited for the Prime Minister to be informed of the resignation of the internal minister. This was violated not only by the President of the Government’s indirect constitution but also by his business duty. Above all, we must all think together about the way this matter has ended in this direction. If the President of the Government has changed his mind, if he wanted to keep his minister, he should be up to the people in Slovenia, to the citizens, so honest and right, and stand in front of the cameras and explain it, but not to deceive and underestimate the Slovenian public by making a child's excuse for the unopened envelope. It's amazing what some people in office think they can afford. Whatever. Minister Hojs is still a minister, a minister with full powers. Not only did he eat the word, but he finally lost his face. These are also thoughtfully summed up by the flyers we had before time, and again this morning, we can see them on the ground in the center of Ljubljana and say: Aleš Hojs – irrevocably faceless. And Aleš Hojs, Minister of Respect, if you are in this position against your will, despite your desire and serious thought with your irrevocable resignation, then I can only feel regret for you. In view of everything that is said in the SAB Group, we believe that Aleš Hojs is not fit to serve as Minister, and that is why today we will certainly support this interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. The first is proposed Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As long as I have your full attention, let me just mention to you that in the coming hours I will present a document that actually proves that the police are in the hands of the SDS party. Allow me to proceed as a comment on the performance of the distinguished minister and, of course, the interpretation of all those who, by domestically said stand regardless of the constitution, regardless of the law – I have to sit down, I apologize – regardless of the law, regardless of the constitution. But this support is primarily – you will not believe – on the coalition contract. Hereafter, me and my colleagues and coalition partners will prove lies, misdemeanors and overstepping of powers and, of course, violations of legislation by the Minister and his most recent group. Thompson is an important question – undoubtedly, but allow me to touch in my introduction one of the key issues that have opened up in the professional public in recent weeks. Not only the Office of the Attorney General, the Society of Criminalists, the Police Union of Slovenia, the authors of the law – all these and many others say that the guidelines and mandatory instructions given to the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services are illegal. Yesterday, on the committee, we met Dr. Zaberl, who is the author of this document, and the policy of Mr. Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior. In fact, the law school, implementation, understanding the legislation adopted by the National Assembly, must implement, read and understand the law. Allow me to explain to you that the Faculty of Security Sciences of the University of Maribor has prepared a clear opinion on the illegal operation of Minister Aleš Hojs in case of targeted police. It clearly clarifies all doubts and questions as to what the Minister can and cannot do, what he can do in the criminal and pre-trial proceedings, what he can do in those matters still in progress, so open matters, and what he can do in those matters that are no longer in progress, so they are closed. The Special Prosecutor's Office has made it clear to the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services that the Minister of the Interior cannot and must not have information on whether all cases of supervision by the Minister of the Interior addressed to the Director of the Slovenian Police are justified or not. Why? Because he can't know that. Minister Hoys claims all five cases are closed. Minister Hoys is not an authorized person, he can't do that and he can't know that! Well, he's lying. As long as he claims and does so publicly repeatedly that things are closed, it is easier. Evidence is the opinion of the Special Prosecutor's Office, which speaks of Hoys not being able to know. Society of Criminalists: The Minister may give certain guidelines and instructions to the police, but I must point out here that the powers of the Minister - who sits there - do not apply to police procedures which he directs under the law governing criminal proceedings, especially the competent prosecutor. So, here it is clear, the minister is doing what the state's attorney should do. This is where the minister's powers end. Mr Slavko Koroš, a representative of the Association of Criminists, reasoned on the matter, who was removed from his post a day later because of this statement. That's what the SDS party does. That's how they go after the police. The Office of the Attorney-General – I am not talking about individual lawyers hired by the SDS party, but we are talking about the Office of the Attorney-General – reports that compliance with the applicable rules and the operation of the Office of the Attorney-General is essential for the functioning of the rule of law and only within the limits of the prescribed powers. Accordingly, it is also expected that the work of the state prosecutors and the assessment of the functioning of the State Prosecutor's Office will be carried out in accordance with the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office and that only the authorities responsible – and not Minister Hojs – will do so. At the same time, they themselves do not interfere with the powers of other institutions – what Minister Hojs is doing. They add that the Attorney-General has neither the power nor the power to assess the work and the supervisory measures imposed by the Minister of the Interior within his competence. He got basket number two. Basket number three. The Police Union of Slovenia says that the guidelines and instructions are legally inadmissible and that police officers and police officers can be brought into legal and criminal proceedings for the implementation of disputed guidelines and instructions. So they could be punished by police officers for doing what their minister, their boss, orders the police director. They even require Hojs to remove the disputed guidelines and instructions immediately. It's a public announcement. Dear Minister Hoys! As has already been said, you are neither the author nor the proposer, nor the one who voted this law in the National Assembly. It's the National Choir. You can only implement laws such as adopted and interpreted in the National Assembly. Today, the public will clearly indicate where Aleš Hojs exceeded his authority by not having a legal basis for doing what he does. So it directs the police only where the SDS party has its own and direct interest. I look forward to the moment when Minister Hojs will identify himself on these and on many other issues that we will ask the Minister and his supporters today, who, of course, have given him support in some way today, despite doing things that are contrary to the law and the legislation that he is subject to.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u34	Look, Madam President, it is necessary procedurally here. Comrade Matjaž German – and this is the process itself, because we are in the hall and we need to know and know some things that are real – operates with letters and talks about things that are not real and would be necessary for us to get these things into our hands. First time. Let him tell them in what way he received them, on behalf of whom he sent them, or then let those on whose behalf he sent them know of these answers. And as a third, respected colleague of Germany – and this is essential to know and it is necessary to know this procedurally, presiding – a letter about which a German colleague today spoke and pointed out has not been prepared by the Faculty of Security Sciences. That's a lie. The Faculty made it available to an external associate who was signed under this letter and this external associate is Mr Zaberle, an SD associate at the time of the Bohinč government. Don't talk about professional letters and expert opinions! These are not professional opinions, and we need to know that, and for these letters, people or citizens and citizens also need to know in such a way that they are received by Members and Members. This is a lie and an abuse of President Knovs' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u35	Thank you, thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, there you go. Dr. Runczek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u36	Look, this is a school abuse of procedure. This is a debate. Procedural procedures shall be designed for procedural purposes. That's my procedural proposal. They Have — How Much? - Three hours to discuss it, let them smoke it there.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u37	Thank you very much for your suggestion. The word is Minister Hoys. [[advertising from the hall]] He's the one who raised his hand before. [[advertising from the hall]] Minister Hoys, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Things may need to be said a little bit more calmly, so that it doesn't look like we're going to a theatre performance that I somehow feel from some of the discussions. I think it is right that the Slovenian public also knows. So, on yesterday's Knovs, where I was invited by Mr. German. First, it must be said that this Knovs has been convened for absolutely political purposes. This session of Knovs was convened last week when it was scheduled for this interpretation last week. Since this interpellation has moved, Mr German has also postponed the session of Knovs. So, everything is carefully and properly planned. At the meeting itself, Mr German said that he had obtained the opinion of Mr Zaberl, even at the meeting Mr Zaberl, as Mr German had just said, which Mr Zaberl had made free. Can you imagine? He made it free! Mr German must have called the university, then asked Mr Zaberl what to do with it, and Mr Zaberl made it free of charge. On the question of some members of the Commission, whether it is our legal science or the different opinions of lawyers, it may be reasonable for us to have two or three more opinions, as these opinions may differ, Mr German replied that the Commission does not have the money and will not deal with it. When I asked him to see that opinion, he wouldn't give it to me on the committee to read it. He showed it to me later, on Twitter, where he published the subject records of Mr. Zaberl on Twitter. What Mrs. Anja Bah, a Member of Parliament, has said is true. Mr Zaberle was one of the key people in the cabinet of Minister Bohinc, Minister of the SD Party during the conduct of the police, Mr Mark Pogorevec. At that time, the matter went so far, that is, with Mr Bohinec and Mr Žaberl, that they both wanted to get involved in direct sightings, what and how the police were doing. So in direct matters, not just what they control and how they control and so on, but directly into open matters. Mr Pogorec resisted this and the Constitutional Court then, I already said this on television publicly, the Constitutional Court then replied that they had this right of course. So the Constitutional Court in the composition of SD personnel, ministers in the composition of SD personnel, had this right at the time. Mr German has just said that clearance is, or – what should I call it – revision, or the findings of these cases are of great interest to the SDS party. Here. Here. The clearance of crime in Slovenia is a major interest of the SDS party. In the laundering of Iranian money, at least according to some estimates, in commissions here, 100 to 200 million euros have disappeared in our country. In the examinations of the ventricles, this respected National Assembly found — unanimously, if I am not mistaken — that millions have disappeared in procurement, public procurement, and Slovenian health care. In the investigation of other matters, almost everyone, perhaps not in one case, also the National Assembly found that millions had been stolen. Therefore, I repeat, there is a great interest in the SDS party to stop thefts in Slovenia. In all the procedures you are referring to, of course, there is another abuse, the abuse of you by Mr German, Mr Žaberl and all those so-called eminent lawyers. Except for Mr. Zaberl, I've never seen anyone write anything like that before. As it is said that we are interfering in open matters, that Iranian money is finished, the prosecution has said. And even if it weren't, no one gets involved, no one gets involved, no one gives instructions to the police director or to anyone else to direct or do anything else with the investigation. All these procedures, which are written in the mandatory instructions referred to in point 4, shall be completed for the police. Whether a report has been filed or a criminal complaint has been filed. The task of the police director is to check whether his team – if I say more domestically, his criminalists, his stuff – has done things the way he has to, or maybe he has forgotten something. Maybe he forgot something on purpose. Maybe he didn't question anyone. You may find it amazing that after Slovenia, a gentleman who was the organizer of the laundering of billions of Iranian money walked freely for months, walked through Slovenia and was not even heard by criminals. In fact, one wonders whether it is only in the interest of the SDS that things change in Slovenia. I believe not. Most of these cases have been dealt with in the National Assembly, most of these cases have been concluded in the National Assembly with almost unanimous observations, and in most cases you have already found illegal acts yourself — as far as you can tell by Members, of course, the legality or illegality is ultimately decided by someone else — and in most cases you have determined by your political will that you want to do so. Since that first case of Banka Slovenije, if I am not mistaken, it has been eight years and nothing has happened. So, according to your logic, your assessment is that this case is still open because at any time, it can be opened by the State's Attorney's Office. Dear Mr. German, how long should we wait for him to be imprisoned? As Mr. Jelinčič used to say, until 2030 or until 3020? Once, such legal latrines end. In this introduction, allow me to say a few more words, or things, that you have said in your presentations in which lies were grumbled. One of the very important things that Mr Baković said, which he did not yet directly state as a claim, but defined it, as it might be understood, whether or not it might have been conceivable, or certainly so, was the phrase where he said that "the ladies were undoubtedly under political pressure when they issued the rejection of Thompson's ban." Maybe I didn't say that in the introduction, so I'll say it now. This is one of my responsibilities or one of my faults in this particular case that I have not been aware of that decision; this is my responsibility. After I learned that this decision had been issued — I think that I had found out on June 4 or 5, I do not remember exactly when — I immediately called the head of the Directorate who is taking care of these administrative procedures, and asked her how it could be that she did not inform me of such an eminent time. She said that she held to the point of apologizing, and we agreed on a different way of communicating in the future. But I can certainly tell you that the Minister, and not just me, any minister, of every single last act issued by officials in the ministries, simply cannot be informed. True, he is informed of things that could arouse or be social or otherwise important. Therefore, it is on the basis of this case that we have set up a different method of communication within the Ministry. There's no way I'm getting involved in the procedures themselves. I'm talking about information. However, I also called the two officials immediately after talking to her; that is, both of them, who, as you said several times, did not allow the concert in their first decision, and later on on the basis of the ruling, the decision of the Administrative Court, followed this decision fully and allowed the concert to be re-elected. Once again, we're talking fiction, we're talking about a concert that's never been and never will be. So we are talking about whether we have procedures, legal procedures, procedures that are consistent with the rule of law in which people can get a decision, challenge it, regain it, challenge it, challenge whether it is legal protection. So, we are not talking about what Mr German imagines the Minister to come to the office, and if he is an anti-fascist, that is a condition, then he can abolish the decisions by a mile, demand, decree and so on. So we don't talk about it, we talk about the rule of law. Both ladies told me that they were also surprised at the decision of the Administrative Court, but that no other decision could be taken in this case in relation to the judgment. And, of course, I fully understood their arguments. Then there was the next question, and I wondered whether anyone at or outside the Ministry had put pressure on them in the process. Interestingly, none of them wanted to say yes or no, after I told them to tell them, however, what and how they said, yes, we had the pressure to ban the concert, but they preferred to follow the court's decision and did so, as the court demanded. In this regard, it is also necessary to say what I said at the outset, that the interest of a member of the SD party, the Chief of the administrative unit, in preventing this concert, was exceptional. So, he wanted to get directly involved not only in the work which, of course, he must supervise as the chairman of the body, i.e. the administrative unit itself, but also in the work of other bodies, i.e. the calls to the Ministry of Public Administration, the desire to meet with the Minister of Cortnik, the calls to our ministry and also, and I could say, clearly indicate that the Chief of Administration, in his own way, understood the management of the administrative procedure. There is one more thing to say, Mr Troll, if I am not mistaken, I also have this with me, he filed a claim for compensation early in January. Can you imagine? The procedure is not completed and Mr Troll is demanding compensation. And look at him, the chief of management is starting to pressure the other authorities to stop the concert. So it is clear to every sane Slovenian that compensation is possible only if something is unlawfully prohibited. If it's allowed and you don't organize the concert yourself, then it's clear that the compensation doesn't belong to you. In this case, look at it, the head of the Maribor Management Unit, a member of the SD party, is putting a lot of pressure on the concert to stop. I don't know. I don't know. So, whether the Chief of Management was in agreement with Mr Troll in the sense that the concert would be banned, and then they would agree, I don't know. But I do know that the SD client is famous for not paying the bills, so they have a debt, not from yesterday, but from years ago. To avoid paying bills for their electoral campaign, that is, sending money or covering costs is certainly strong and strong in this party. Furthermore, Mr Baković spoke about trade unions, police officers, which we know should not be members of political parties. Here. That's even in the constitution. And look at the fraction, the union that has the most to say through me, which calls public press conferences together with Mr Struklje – we know where Mr Strukelj belongs – the vice-president of this union is not a member of the SD party, but, look at the fraction, is running on the SD party list and is a municipal councillor on the SD party list. I think he was even a mayor, if I'm not mistaken, of SD parties. So, Mr Baković, of course I absolutely support your efforts, at least that's how I understood you, for the total depoliticisation of the police. That is why I believe that the SD party will also support my proposal, which will be the amendment to the Police Organisation and Work Act, where we will clearly write: no police officer, i.e. every police officer, can perform a political function. This, of course, will not mean that police officers, if they wish, will not be allowed to run on the SD list or on the SDS list, so that there is no mistake, the right one will be able to run. The moment they are elected either as municipal saints, either as parishioners or as any other political function, they will automatically cease their employment. This seems to me the only real solution for us to be able to believe that the incompatibilities or non-membership of police officers in political parties are assured. Otherwise, we have another union man who says he's unpolitical and he's running for SD — I find it very or very incomprehensible. In this introductory part, I would like to take a look at or say one more thing that you have highlighted, I think that, in fact, almost all three, namely Mrs Sukičeva, Mrs Kociprova and, if I am not mistaken, Mr Baković, but I apologize if you have not highlighted it. It is, however, the so-called direction or supervision or direction of the police in the event of public protests. Ma'am said she correctly quoted my tweet. She specifically said that I wrote that the police should use all the facial recognition tools to use all the methods to identify people. This comment, Mrs Sukičeva, is, in my opinion, primarily intended for public broadcasting. Why public radio? Because in the last Target I participated in, Minister Hojs said that he had the police make public all the faces and other data of the protestors. Can you believe it? Turn the show back and you will see what public television has said; that is, that public television that is just or in these days advertises itself how good it is, so it advertises itself how great it is. So this tweet that you read is identical, and of course I believe that your debate will also be seen by public television. Furthermore, I would like to say that the repression of the protestors you spoke of and Mrs Sukičeva and some others, in fact, is repression, and it is right that people know, it is the repression of our wallets. This is the repression of our wallets! I'm sorry, Mrs. Anji Bah. The last time she asked me on the board, she asked me what the police cost of protecting weekly bikers is, if I say so. I must say, I have absolutely underestimated matters. Underestimated. I'm sorry. So I have an accounting for the police costs – I ordered on the basis of this committee to make me a coster, they made me a coster for one day, and we're going to lower it, given that it didn't happen every day. A meeting of protestors or so: A meeting called a protest from balconies goes on bicycles. You probably remember that on 8. 5. cost-sharing. Regular hours – police officer, fifth tariff, regular hours – police officer, sixth tariff, regular hours – police officer, seventh tariff, use of service horse, use of service dog, use of protective fences, trailer for the transport of horses, personal police car, intervention vehicle, motorcycle, van for the transport of dogs, helicopter, in a few minutes of course, dry meal plus water, fence protection or fence construction – EUR 54 000 673! Maybe the first exit was one of the first ones, if I'm not mistaken, maybe overprotective, and later it turns out there's no need for that kind of protection. One of the things I myself have proposed to the police on what, under the terms, an infamous visit to the OKC, which Mr German has been talking about for two months – by the way, also requires something we cannot give him; it is said that magnetograms and records of the visit are required. Apparently, sir has never been to the Occ to see what it looks like. By the way, the police don't write down the record when the minister gets there. There is also no record of a conversation with the minister, there is a recording of the conversations of people who call and so forth, and so on and so forth. At that infamous, under the title, visit to the OCC before the meeting I proposed to the Director of the Police Administration of Ljubljana – now, probably not illegal either, or you will say that this is illegal – to remove the fence from the Market of the Republic. I said, look, it doesn't make sense that you're blocking the market every Friday, because everyone says they're peaceful, keep the PP ready, so special police units, if necessary, intervene, secure only the front of the National Assembly, and remove the fence from the Republic Square. It is obvious that this proposal or this advice has been followed, because after my visit to this fence in the Market of the Republic, there was no more. I have to say that I have made a relatively small amount of money, so if I look at the construction of the fence, it was only a thousand 477 euros. If I subtract it from 54 thousand, we're still over 50,000, and if we engineerly estimate that every Friday there were no such costs in terms of the intensity of the presence of police officers, what I said a minute ago, let's say that the cost is only half of that, so 25 thousand times 21 so that we don't miscalculate something, times 21,525 thousand euros have so far cost the police for, under the terms, protecting the protestors on Fridays. As you said, this is not a repression of protestors, protestors have so far had no problem with their protests. This is the repression of Slovenian taxpayers' wallets. 3, 4 or 5,000 people allow this country to pay 25 to 50,000 euros each week for them, which together means that we paid half a million euros in 21 weeks to protect them. I believe it would make sense and much wiser to use something else. Even in the police department. Moreover, what Mrs Sukič has somehow concluded and what you have also talked about is security. Now, if I understand correctly, the main observation in the case of guarding was that I reacted four days after, if we call it a little ugly, the adult men were placed at the police station in Styria. It is true that, as far as protestors are concerned, I wrote the guidelines relatively quickly. It also holds what you could have seen in these protests yourself, this arrogance and the underestimation of the policemen by the protestors. All you can think of is those young ladies who use a water pistol or all those who mutilate police officers are inappropriately addressed and so on. That is why, of course, I have estimated that it is right for the police to have some guidance on how to act against the protestors. One of the key words or key phrases in these directions was a sentence that sounded something like this – I have before me, if necessary – which somehow means that police officers are peacefully and capitally enduring provocations, insults and everything else they will receive from protestors. And they did. That's what they've done so far. So, all praise to the police. Everything these gentlemen, ladies and ladies have done to the police there has been rude, unbelievable, but the police have reacted as they must. Then the guards came. When I saw the guard in Slovenian Horses, if I am not mistaken – sorry, in Slovenian Bistrica – and when I saw this medal of police response, in a day or two, I think the very next day I called the police director and asked him: “Well, what are you, are you Karitas or are you police?” So, as Minister, I expected that the Director of Police would not need special instructions. At that point, I expected the police station commander to call a special unit, so that this special unit could get there with the right vehicles, I say, uglyly, kick in some of those belly men and get them out of a place where they don't belong. But it obviously wasn't like that. I absolutely agree with you that the instructions are too soft. I can't agree that they're too late, because I expect the police to know for themselves what they can and can't do. And in this case, we could do this without instructions, without guidance, without the Minister writing instructions and instructions in six, seven days in particular. So, when you tell me that I've written too many instructions, you tell me at the same time that I haven't responded quickly enough and firmly enough to the police's reaction in case of Ward. I just don't get it. At the end of this work, of course, I would like to make clear what I have already said several times: the distinction between the ministry and the police is clear. The Minister has the power to propose, he is called the Government, of course, to propose the Director-General of Police and all intra-police personnel exchanges are carried out by the Police Director. Well, it's gonna be hard for you to tell the minister that he's doing personnel exchanges at the NPU, if he's not in charge. You will also find it difficult to tell the minister that he has replaced the assistant director of the criminal police, who, by the way, left on his own initiative, wanted him to stop doing this work if the minister does not have the authority to do it. The Minister may replace, propose to replace the Director of Police and the two Directors of Directorates at the Ministry of the Interior. Today, the forced change of personnel within the Ministry, which I have heard quite a few of you about today, is that in the positions of the Director of the Police Directorate, the same person sits in the previous term, except that I have estimated that Mr. is competent, competent, that a long-standing experienced police officer and that he deserves to occupy this place not in the function of v. d., but that he receives a permanent mandate. And that's what he got. During the time of Minister Poklukar, Mr Poklukar obviously did not assess this, although he is the same person, he did not grant him a permanent mandate. At the second Directorate, the Director of the Directorate for Administrative and Home Affairs is the same lady as she has sat for the last few years. Well, she's still there, too. So I don't know what kind of changes you're talking about. However, if the Director of Police has decided to turn over the staff force within the police force, these are questions for the Director of Police, not for the Minister of Home Affairs. By the way, or in the end, I see no conclusion in this file that you, Mr. German, have published on Twitter that the instructions would be illegal. Mr. Zaberl says there might be something wrong. I didn't see it say something was illegal. And what Mr Zaberl writes in the second point – I will probably talk about the first one at the end, because it is very important and, of course, it is right that you all hear it in the end, not in the meantime – but in the second point, he speaks of the fact that the Minister cannot order or direct the director of the police, even if they are, it says, even if the proceedings are already concluded. I repeat, these are procedures that have been completed for the police or the police. In these cases, or in one of these cases, others are now quite a few years old, but one case is 8 years old, somewhere there, Mr. Zaberl wrote – not for this particular case, but in general – that he could order or order such an examination. Most Slovenians know what an audit is, most engineers know what an audit is, and 90 percent of people know what an infection means. Clearly, then, only some have the problem of not knowing what infection is, even though that legal expression or words have not been found in any of the laws — infection or noninfection means that things are done by other people, as they have done before, in order to ensure that they are truly independent. So there, Mr Zaberl writes that, if so, such guidance or such a review of these cases could only be issued by the Director of Police. Now imagine the case, this case is. From then on, we had, I think, five police directors. We had five police directors at the time that this complaint or the communication had nothing to do with it. We've thrown billions into bank recovery. Billions! An investigative committee was set up, the case was investigated by the police. In the end, nothing happened. In the meantime, we had five police directors, because no one thought it worth ordering their people to see what the hell happened to the whole thing. And now Mr Zaberl will tell me that I must not tell the Director of Police to look at what they have done in this case. It's amazing what nonsense we've fallen into, and it's amazing how much politics advocates that nothing happens. So now we've been talking about all these cases for years and years and nothing happens. As an interesting point, when the police file a report or press charges against the D.A., the D.A. doesn't have a deadline. You can imagine, he doesn't have a hand! So the indictment, which was filed four years ago by the police, is still alive, as Mr Zaberl explains, despite the fact that the prosecution has done nothing. Leave it alone, don't investigate anything in the police department, nobody can look anywhere, because the prosecution is still directing this matter. Even more, even when we hand over or turn over investigators, police officers, criminals to the prosecution only report, the prosecution has no jurisdiction. So you're going to say, at any time, you can reopen this case to the prosecutor, because he doesn't have a deadline, because until it was obvious that it wasn't or that the police didn't realize that there was a crime, this case is still open. Perfect nonsense. So, according to such explanations, in fact, we can never close any case, except for the one that ended up in court, because the one that the prosecution has not identified and was processed to it with the report can open at any time, so it is not finished. And the one the police have concluded with an indictment or with a co-defendant charge against the prosecution, the prosecutor doesn't have a hand in it either. So this one is also open indefinitely. I wonder if anyone in this police force can look anywhere. Not me. The directions you've been so fond of in the last few days are not meant for me to look directly there, either at one of my colleagues or at the Ministry. That's what's coming. It's called control. So, all of these cases will, of course, be re-controlled, not directed, but ordered control, so the Police Directorate will be tasked with overseeing all these cases. This monitoring, however, is not related to whether the procedure is open or closed. And it'll be interesting to see what he finds out about control. But I think it is right that, on the basis of the guidelines I have given, the body in the composition should first be identified to these matters, so that the police themselves should first define this. That and only that was the wish of my guidance. And maybe even that, there were no 9 or 8, 10 directions I've already issued during my term of office. That is how it is necessary for Mrs Sukič to be fixed in this case, if not in another case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Before we proceed, just a brief intervention. I believe we've all read the interpretation and the content of the interpretation. I have nowhere to find such content as to talk about any payment of any invoices, debt or police expenses and so on. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] So given that we have a long meeting today and that there will be much debate, I suggest that we all focus together on the content of the interpretation. If not, this debate will go too wide. This applies both to Members of Parliament and to you, Mr Hoys. Mr. Proposer Matjaž German, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u40	Mr. Hoys, the stone would cry when he listened to your fate. I'm really touched. Not the interpellation, the apple of inspiration would be received by you today, esteemed Hoys. The interpretation shows that you're practically not responsible for anything, and you're not guilty of anything. I don't even know if you're making a donation for charity. If we believed you, sire, today we would most likely have to interpret officials on the MNZ who wrote the decision, or a janitor on the MNZ, according to the illegal instructions you gave with regard to the views you gave on the maps at the NPU, or the personnel exchange on the police. Let me remind you, those who, as you say, are part of a deep state, are the ones you took away. Experts in criminology today deal with migrants, this is also one area for which you have a lot of empathy, as you relativize, Mr. Minister, guards: guards are fine, these are boys, our, solid, Slovenian mountains leaves. And God forbid, but protestors are terrible, demonized. They're really pulling budget money because they're actually fighting for the freedom of the nation. Dear Minister, it is difficult for me to touch all the content, but certainly Mr Žaberl, who has signed himself, and you want to blacken it in the context that he has worked for a deep country under the guidance of Bohinca, to warn you – and you know that, but you do not want to say – that Mr Zaberl has been an expert in all governments so far or at least in these two. One that you read, the other was the Director of the Police Directorate and other security tasks, which was at the time of Gorenak. This same Mr Gorenak today says that an expert has become a politician and you, a politician, have become an expert. An apple of inspiration, my respects, you don't get away! But anyway, Mr. Zaberl is one of those courageous authors of the law who's willing to expose himself. And what Mrs Anja Bah Žibert says is clear – the head is from the University of Ljubljana, Faculty of Security Sciences. The more obvious it is, there's no way to expose it. But you said, Your Honor, that this is just one of the experts. What about Mr. Miha Hafner? This, one of the authors, has also announced, quote, "that the Minister must not direct matters taken over by the State Prosecutor". Mr Minister, the Attorney General – so you are interfering with another branch of power. You are the Minister of the Interior and you are interfering with the work of the judiciary, the judiciary. You're interfering with the work of the Attorney General, Minister. You were clearly told that yesterday, but today it is proven. You're interpreting the law that you're sheriff of Far West, which means you're in the Far West. The Minister's involvement in specific procedures, including those where the prosecution has not decided to initiate prosecutions, is an intervention not only in autonomy, political neutrality of the police, a respected minister, but also in the independence of the prosecution, a respected minister. That's why, Mr. Secretary, with your co-worker and his co-workers, you've also received a complaint about the abuse of your position, Mr. Secretary-General. You were talking about Knovs. That's very unfair. Why did we postpone the session? First of all, you didn't send the requests we asked. Secondly, you know – that is why we have postponed this meeting – that the quarantine has touched the Members and Members, unfortunately also members of Knovs. That's why we were forced to postpone the session. Mr Zaberl, he is Mr Gale to me, given everything he has told us and what he still explains to us through public media and media coverage. And he's not the only one, sir! Before that, you've shaved yourself with the fact that we want to be Knovs – and I'm not going to open this debate, but just to read you a piece of what we want. Would you have any problems if, as Knovs, you requested a report on the operation of the operational headquarters at the time you were at the OKC? Your answer – no problem. And that's what you're up against! Dear Hojs, please, I would really like to ask you to answer today's fundamental question: How do you know that your orientations are directed at open things that prosecutors still have on the table as completed or incomplete? You said the cases were all closed. Tell me, how do you know that? How did you get this information? The U.S. Attorney's Office says you don't have these powers. How can you say that the cases are closed? Please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Grimes has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. First, a procedural proposal has priority. Secondly, I propose to you, Madam President, that you read the Rules of Procedure and stick to it in the future. Interpellation takes place in such a way that it is prepared in writing, it is answered by the Minister within the prescribed time limit, this has happened and, of course, the proposer has the opportunity to supplement this further in the introductory debate. That's what the proposer did. And the Minister, now that he was responding, responded to the applicant's introductory debate, which is perfectly correct and exactly in line with the rules of procedure relating to interpretation. That's why you warned him. You've overstepped your authority with this. I suggest you apologize to the Minister and not make any more mistakes in the future. Stick to the rules of procedure, carry out the task which I am aware that you are now trapped, because you realize that legal misinterpretation, ridiculous, reflects ignorance, manipulative, play on emotions and of course this is now unfolding and you are panicking. [[…]] But panic doesn't excuse what you're doing, but it explains a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes, for your intervention. However, the procedural proposal was irrelevant. My warning was simply to stick to the content of the interpretation in the debate. I believe that if you have read the Minister's reply and everything that belongs to him, you have also noticed that there is no talk in the interpretation of any SD client's accounts, there is no mention of any SD party's debts, as the Minister has been talking about. My warning flew to this part of the Minister's debate, or Mr Hojs. If we can proceed with the debate. First he gets the word, Mr. Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! I must say, Sir Hoys, I am still a little shocked by the opening presentation you had. We need to ask ourselves today, especially in this hall, after what you have said so far — in fact, where do we live today, what time are we in? What are we talking about today, dear colleagues, in this hall? You live in some past, in 1942, in 1980, in 1990 and constantly, constantly coming to plan this past and this warming something [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u45	I'm sorry, Mr. Prebil. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u46	May I?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u47	Mr. Prebil, just a moment. Mrs Irgle, if you wait until you arrive in the debate with your interventions, do not disturb the other debaters. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Yes, but you, like this government, forget about the future, about what is crucial in this country. I, Mr. Hoys, am not going to call you Minister because you're not that to me anymore. I can tell you, Minister, if you like, I can call you Minister in an irrevocable, cancelled resignation – I don't know, you haven't decided yet – or actually a Minister who does current business. With this little blue book that we all know well, you're familiar, I believe. Last time you swore in front of the National Assembly on your own conscience. Hold that? And then I believe that you know this 115th Article, which speaks of the Minister's resignation, and also speaks of the Minister's office leaving the Minister's resignation, and that he is engaged in ongoing business until the election of the new Minister. And this saying that the President of the Government did not open the envelope is just one part of these problems. Therefore I ask you to answer me also those questions which Mr. German has asked you and my questions – Have you therefore resigned? What's up with that? Because, in addition to all the problems and problems that you are doing in your ministry, which this government is doing, this is essentially one of those things that is just garlic on a cake and that was a little bit forgotten at the time. It's unacceptable, it's catastrophic. Someone to step down. Do you imagine that the minister in the government of Marjana Sharca would resign and then not give up? And I think half the coalition partners would have been sent to the guillotine. What are you guys doing? And all that weight, all that was exposed, all that from the direction you're giving to the police to this personnel tsunami. We have already sat, sat with our colleagues at a meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs, where we have shown you the controversy of the exchange, and in fact we have shown you how you and your party have done so. In fact, for the first time in the history of this country, the fact that the government in the introductory session has not yet deteriorated two hours after it was set up and sworn here, has replaced all the key personnel both in the police and in other key positions that govern this country, including defence and intelligence. This indicates this complete control, this is some pathological wish of your party, your leader, that only my way or no way is working in this country. This, Your Honor, is beyond all limits in this country, no matter what you say here today. Yet you are, as it is said, three quarters of the time — that is, we have been sitting here for five hours, and I am the first Member to come to a conclusion — about this past. Once again, I want us to remember this past, not to warm it up. We in LMŠ are this environment that respects the past, but let us, respected, begin to talk about the future. I'm a relatively young Member, one of the youngest here. I went to politics to move things to a better place, to change, but not to talk all the time about what was there, and who was there, and who was in the Udba, and who came out there, and hello, huh???Oh, my God! [[…]] And everything that's going on, from subjugating the systems to resisting the union, when it intervenes in some individual cases, respected, as your colleague German told you when the prosecutor takes over the matter, you give your fingers away and you have nothing more to do with it. Since the story is over, the matter moves to another branch of power. Do you know the principle of legality? Well, that's defined there. In addition, you keep stressing what others are guilty of, condemning people to spread the virus, condemning who belongs to the police, who is not wanted there, judging who has the constitutional right to protest and who does not. Well, then we see you, either you don't keep your distance, you don't want to wear a mask, you do things you read to others. It's a typical, really typical clienteleism, disregarding the things you prescribe for yourself. That's exactly what people don't trust you for, Mr. Secretary-General. And that's why there's as many as there are on Fridays outside. It's because you lie to people's faces and deceive them. You know, the 525 thousand Euros you mentioned earlier, the well-respected minister, would have saved no problem. Believe me, he likes a lot more than he likes to protest in front of the National Assembly on Friday afternoon. We'd save that money if this government and you and her didn't do the stupid thing you do. Disobedience, in fact nothing in this country, nor the legal principles, in fact, nor the people, nor the constitution, as we see it, nor democracy, is a failure to respect the rule of law. Just what you and your client point out here to everyone, all the time. What you're saying is that you're being haunted by some past, by some people in this kidnapped country and some deep country with subsystems. I don't know, look at you, and maybe you'll find a start on this. Once again, the minister said: “I am resigning irrevocably today. I have sent my resignation to the President of the Government and this resignation has been accepted." But, sir, you're still here. You're making a fool of people, including all of us here! You have not been appointed by the Government, you have been appointed by the National Assembly and the National Assembly can relieve you. If you decide to step down, you've resigned! And now I'm giving you a chance, Minister, to tell you that you're stepping down and we'll get to know it today and the matter is closed. But if you don't want to do that, tell yourself you've changed your mind. Unfortunately, Mr. Chief said you can't back down and you won't back down. Tell that to the people, that's what people are interested in! You've resigned? You didn't give up? I'll finish. You said there was a lot of damage done. I agree, this says a lot about you, but I also agree, this time indeed, with the word you said that certain matters need to be cleaned in our country. [[…]] I agree. Start with yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Hoys, did you want a word? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u50	Thank you. I'd answer right away, because then I won't be answering the constant repetition around my resignation or not giving up. I've explained this a number of times. That day, I gave my resignation statement to the Prime Minister. I also made this statement publicly available. The Prime Minister told me, well, when he accepted the envelope, and I marked it at the press conference. I understood that my resignation was accepted, so I communicated as well. Later – I think it was a week later, or I think it was even a little later – it was a visit by the President of the Government of Croatia in Otoc, the President called me and told me that he wanted to have a conversation with me before this meeting, where he explained to me, as he then said publicly that he wanted me to reconsider this derogation, that he did not open the envelope itself, that he did not intervene in the National Assembly. I told him - what any human would do if the President of the Government told you that he wanted you to think about it again - I told him that I would do it. Of course, I'm making him a promise that I'm staying at least until the interpolation, so I'm sitting here today as a minister. I'll talk to him about what's gonna happen next. But clearly, you probably know this better than I do because you're a parliamentarian, right? Every minister's fate is in the hands of the Prime Minister. Therefore, even if the envelope is not open or if the envelope is not open, the President of the Government may at any time submit a proposal for the discharge of the Minister and a smart minister when the President of the Government sends it, he shall not remain in his place. Now I hope that there will not be any other question on this subject. So, I am the current minister of this government, I perform this function with full powers, today you Members will decide whether I remain in this place, and I will no longer comment on this in further comments or further replies to all Members. Now answer to your ad personnel, Mr. Nick Prebil. I don't know what year you are, but I do believe you signed under interpolation. Did you? So I don't know why you're asking me why we're going back to 1942. You signed under a document starting with: “In 1942, the 19-year-old Ustaš Joso Oreskovic testified of terrible crimes” Not to read all of this further. [[…]] So, you started in 1942, Mr. Prebil, not me. In this I fully support you, end in 1942! Let us look to the future, and I have already said this in my opening address. In 1942 – I do not remember that in the parliamentary democracy of the Republic of Slovenia, so since 1990 forward, any interpretation would have started in 1942. That's who you are. Mr. German, first-signed, 1942. Unbelievable! You, Mr. Prebil, because you're asking me this, but under 1942, you're signed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u51	Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u52	Dear Minister, when we're in the past, I don't know what's weirder than you said: or the first word of 'in 1942' or the fact that you're still sitting here after you've made a resignation statement three months ago. Neither has this happened or I do not even know the country where it would happen; I do not know the European state; I do not know the legal order of any banana republic to do so, Minister-respected. Now, while you've been at it, let me just say one thing. You said that any reasonable person would not give up on the President of the Government after he called you when he asked you to stay in this position; but, tell me just one thing – did this happen after or because you failed to prevent everything around Restoration? We know for ourselves that investigations have taken place, we know for ourselves that these investigations have upset you very much, and we know that they have upset you mainly because you couldn't or could not prevent them. Because it is not just Mr. Restovalska, it is a whole chain of people who are, so there is also a criminal investigation, and that is why you are probably changing people to the NPU, to the National Investigation Office, and that is why you have moved those who have worked on it to migration because you probably have failed to prevent anyone, anyone, even if it is only Slovenian police, from investigating the work or the dishonest work of Slovenian politicians, Minister. After you were given a second chance, you sent these guidelines, which are, as has already been said, at the 4th point in non-compliance with the law, so illegal, respected minister. Is that why you had to stay and not have to go? You must have stayed, Minister, because you would have gone, but John Janša kindly asked you and, of course, you had to stay by your word. Tell me, just when you decided to resign: before or after the investigations against the rest and chain of people who are directly connected to the customer of the SDS and who led the purchases of protective equipment a few months ago. Please report this to the public! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We still have Mr. Pretzel's replica of the performance of Mr. Hoys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Yes, Minister, you stepped down, but then, as far as I know, what you're saying now, you're also after the President of the Government asked you to reconsider, you told the media that you wouldn't change your mind and that you were irrevocably giving up. What happened in the middle? Exactly what Mr German has now told you that you resigned at the beginning of this – and so did your Director-General of the Police, because you could not have affected the stopping of Mr. Restovalski's investigation – but then he told you, let's do it, because you will. Then, from then on, when the interpolation was put in, remember that it was withdrawn because of your resignation, and that is why we are only discussing today — that then you have done many, many more things than what begins the interpolation and what you tell me. That, the Minister-respected, is the words you have taken, and that is the disrespect of this book that you have sworn to in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The next discusser is Dr. Franz Duck, get ready, Mr. Željko Ciegler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. I thank the Minister, who is now leaving – he probably has physiological needs, and he is only human — for telling me in fact that with this derogation you and Janez were joking. We don't understand their humor. They are assisted by the president of the National Assembly in this humor. Okay, I'm gonna finish this point. I've got a lot on my plate. To begin with, I will read something, “The lifting of the ban on the concert of the singer Thompson is an insult to the values on which Slovenian independence has grown, and a violation of what is said in our constitution. Article 63 clearly states that any encouragement to national, racial, religious or other inequalities and intolerance is unconstitutional. Thompson's concert, regularly accompanied by calls for contempt of other nationalities, is not and must not be welcome in Slovenia. In many European countries, a singer who, while some sing fame, is unwanted or banned. Unwelcome as a public figure who uses music to spread contentious and repulsive ideas. As a sign of respect for the people and actions that have defended Slovenia’s subjugation, it would be good for us to keep it that way. One is the plurality of views, one is freedom of expression, but when we talk about the rejection of attempts to rehabilitate treason and to magnify the heroism of World War II, which is not, it is the duty of the state to repeat – “is the duty of the state to make a clear distinction between what we want to be and what we reject. In the case of Thompson's concert, Slovenia has already twice clearly and correctly expressed its commitment to the values that are the building blocks of our statehood. Let's keep it that way." In short, it is not a matter of how young colleagues from Nova Slovenije have already spoken, the difference in musical tastes, that is what I have read. And those are not my words, but I agree with them 300 percent. Actually, I was quoting Zdravek Restoralska, president of the SMC at the moment. So much for that. Minister Hoys is not here, but beyond all that has been said, I personally think that the gentleman should go. I listened carefully to what he said about the guard in Bistrica. “I thought that” – and then it turned out that it was not exactly what he thought. Regarding Perkovic or, if you want, Thompson – “I was not informed because the Minister is only aware of socially important matters”. He probably cannot be aware of everything; therefore, what the Coalition colleague and Vice-President Restoration are condemning is obviously a socially irrelevant matter. Then, if we remember that story with the onion, the curb, the whiskey and former Secretary of State Breznik, who is now an MP, he said he hadn't seen himself for a month at the time, and he thought to tell him 14 days later. Wait, I mean, but someone's home, right? I hope at least Franz Kangler has a little bit of this ministry under control if I say a little milieu. We have a serious problem. That this interpolation would go in the direction of counting political blood cells – I really didn't know that SD was responsible for everything. A letter, if I had known, would have already joined the SD and demanded that we train ourselves. But if it goes that way, I'm looking at colleague Eva Irgle here, damn it, soon you won't be the one. The shade of this blue is not exactly the same, and it's too yellow. Okay, you've got Flukice Yellow. Now it's the end of the joke. Crime clearance is in the interest of Slovenia, not in the interest of any party. Shit, are we a state of law or not? And you know when and when someone sets me up with a mirror, I expect him to be at least like me, if not better. I didn't steal a fluke in my life – a flomastra. We're not all the same politicians. I wrote down: an arms affair; freemen, right radicalism, research that did not come to an end, but I know who part of your party in Norway and where else was talking and connecting; Patria; the flow of ogre money to Gruevski – will probably tell Jani Möderndorfer something more; the predora story, so much of the Iranian story, you forget about the so-called Italian typology. Franca is looking at me from our Maribor, which was a bank where some SDS director was texting and middle-ranking mobsters were falling down there — how? — first, they came to Séžana in person, after a little rumble there, they moved to Brežice. But that's not a problem, is it? The mask affair, when the President of the Court of Auditors arrives, complains that he has a problem with MGRT. Do you know what the problem is? I was thinking this morning, but I used to be a professor, so I wrote three names here. The first is Dan Rather, the second is Norbert Elias, and the third is Conrad Lorenz. Rather is one of the most famous journalists in the United States, Norbert Elias is one of the key thinkers, sociologists of the second half of the last century, and Conrad Lorenz is an Austrian zoologist. Rather said: “What was Nixon’s problem? The problem with Nixon was that not only did he want to defeat his rivals, he wanted to destroy them.” Who is similar in Slovenian politics? Finish the bet on your own. You took that immunity away from me. I can't say it to the end. Norbert Elias is known for its fundamental part of the Civilisation Process. I kind of became a political being out there when Jansho was expelled from the Communist Union, and he wanted back in the mid-80s. Such primitive policies as we have at present, I have not yet experienced them. And I'm not some kind of one-brained idolater and one-party system. One of them doesn't like me on the left, rather on this new Left than on the Social Democrats, because I am very clear. In the process of civilisation, it also means that the law applies during the war. Both the Urh and the Partisan Voyage and the postwar killings are worthy of condemnation and criticism. Of course it's not the same, but we have a story here, you tell the minister yourself that Perkovic is a Ustasha star. That's what you told the media when you came from the last consultation with Desus that the uprising was repulsive. Grims says this is not the case, in New Slovenia it is said that these are some musical styling challenges. I mean, Christian democracy is the same if you want, as Europeancommunism and the whole spectrum of politics, which hinders the constitutional parliamentaryism of postwar serious, not just European, democracy, stems from antifascism or antifascism – whether it is loved or not now. Here's this grotesque story, and now some of us are making excuses. If you are some kind of department in cooperation with another department in the field, of course it would be necessary to sit down and give Parliament a legislative amendment that would clarify the Perkovic case and the guard case. But it's not always like some infantile kids to make excuses. I've been in Parliament for seven years, that's worse than the worst day in our family. I mean, we have kids three years old who can't say that. My grandson, who will be two years old, will grow up more than any government I have ever forged in this House. That's actually what this is about! It's some kind of insufficient slip in the civilisation process. That we're even here to debate whether or not we're going to give some part of it a stage and some reflectors. Let us have the Modrijani in Maribor – great, and let us arrange the crown so that everything will be fine and the Murka, which I love very much, for the pre-group. Of course Janša wants to provoke a little revenge on Maribor for 2012, 2013. And if Janša is like that, if you are like you, the former mayor of Maribor, the former saint of the region would have to squeeze ours at this symbolic level. [[Incomprehensible]] In Maribor, others were already ordering whom they would persecute. Maximilian's first 1496. The deer's son could tell us a lot about it, Klemen, who's the expert on it. Then Dolfe came and banished the conscious Mariborians to Serbia and elsewhere. Now some John will provoke us. I don't know. You don't understand Maribor. You didn't actually do it to me when you had to drag one professor out, lie about what kind of cars I drive and who I beat and so on. You, Mr Hojs, are, as far as I have this information, still the president of the Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence. After all, the Slovenian militia had the action of the North, which prevented the rally of truth from happening at the time. She acted preventively before there was any crime that would endanger public security. After that same logic that you're trying to sell us now, then our militiamen would sit with their hands crossed, and they'd say that everyone else is guilty of not knowing what. Any ministry that has within it or which is concerned with any organ autonomy is the task of ministers with a political team, of course, to ensure the conditions of use. But it's not like you guys got involved in this kind of thing. You are not a bad rhetoric, indeed, but Grandma, who has lived this entire life, who has taught about it after all, still more – with all due respect from you – knows more about this than you, who are basically a construction engineer, with all due respect for it. And also this count of blood cells up and down. If we're going to watch the trunk now, we're probably something over your mother-in-law -- whether it's from the White Country or not, the weekend is down -- we're probably related. We'd go there on the sixth, the seventh, and now we're wasting time with this. [[…]] What are we doing here? One fucking theater! And if people look at us, they'll live less because of us for five years. Yeah, it's also a pocket of wallets, if I quote you, or as you said. It's amazing what nonsense we've fallen into, it's true, I agree. And it's the repression of our wallets. However, I personally believe that Janša should also be sued for denying you the rights of an employee. I'm going for your witness. You, as you are superior – you know what I remember, and I told you before, because you're jumping around all the departments. There you will have a little Gantar instilled, about the Slovenian Army you spoke more like Tonin, you are not sure what, political commissioner – under the notes, if I put it that way – for RTV, even in conflict of interest, according to some of your previous services you may also have shares. But if I get real, I won't be too long in this first performance. Somehow you said how you reacted or didn't respond if he was or if he was an anti-fascist minister. But you're not an anti-fascist? That's a serious question now. As I said before, postwar Europe is built on this. This is one of the foundations of constitutional parliamentary democracy after the experiences of two terrible world wars. If you're not, then with everything else that you're getting out of here and what you're doing wrong now, or according to Janša's instructions or in my own light, I'm not going to go into this – unlike other colleagues, I'm not so ordered to know everything about others – but, you know, then you're undermining something that's based on constitutional parliamentary democracy. Something that the aforementioned Norbert Elias would call a process of civilisation. If coalition partners agree on this, like Tonin, lazily from Maribor reporting yesterday to Tarcho, he said that it was a coalition agreement, because it doesn't matter what we do if the opposition wants to interpolate anything, we stick together. And yes, some editor of a low-level publisher is right to a great extent: it's money. But all I've mentioned before is that some gentleman with a yellow blue team is a little bit at the trough, so you don't go back to some affair. Is that why the SD and the Murgel sticks are your fault, and Miha Kordish is mine? 62 was old yesterday, by the way, congratulations to Janez Janša for his birthday. I mean, it would be time for you to grow up. Enough of this, 30 years of this infantilism of Slovenian politics. To conclude, I will quote the Austrian zoologist, Conrad Lorenzo, the quote goes: "There are social states that rule them the wisest. That is the case with baboons." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Hoys, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u58	Thank you. I will be very brief, Mr Trcek, thank you for your intervention. Next, I am not related to my mother - in - law. That way, I don't think we can be related, and I wouldn't mind if we were, but my mother-in-law is something else. But as for anti-fascism and so on, let me make it clear, I have repeatedly said in the introduction that I come from a family and I am also an absolute anti-fascist, anti-nast and anti-communist. I didn't tell the whole story. As an interesting thing to say, the other uncle, who was a two-engineered, was told that even when he graduated from college, he should not seek a job in Ljubljana because he would not get one. And look, Mr. Duck, interesting, do you know where he got it? In Maribor! This was the place where she accepted such people, so, positively, very positive. You didn't listen to me, I guess. I said I don't agree that this is a state of law. Mr. German for the sentence, “if you are an anti-fascist, as chairman of the administrative authority, you have every opportunity to remedy the decision. [[…]] Tomorrow you come to work and cancel the decision.” It's not a legal state, even though you're an anti-fascist.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u59	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Dr. Runch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u60	Yes, as a second-degree body, you had this option, or you listened very badly to me, “with the apparatus available to you, prepare a law amendment that would prevent such or other interpretations and infantilism of Slovenian politics”. As for kinship, incoherence. You know, I take my father-in-law as a relative, but as a two-, three-month-old baby lost his parents, he was with his parents. His mother was in prison for two years, first in Maribor, then in Borl, and his father was like, what, a finemechanist forced in France by a worker, fortunately – unlike Klavora, who was a good friend of his mother – they survived the war. You know, we all have family stories. You'll find it hard to find one of us who doesn't have a family story. But, baptized mother, after 80 years — what are we doing, and what is this government doing? Same fucking division, same cultural struggle as it was in the 19th century! Yeah. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please calm down. All the time you are interrupting the debate of the debaters and I ask you kindly to wait for your opportunity when it is your turn to discuss, you will have the opportunity to say everything. But if you don't calm down now, I'll give you a reminder. Thank you. If I may, please continue the debate. Mr Željko Cigler has the next word, Mr Jožef Horvat is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Mr Hojs, we are talking today about the interpretation of your work, which is significantly more than just a troubled concert by Thompson from Croatia. You said yourself we're talking about the rule of law here today. Yeah, we're talking about the rule of law here. And the things that have been presented to you today, where you have violated specific laws and regulations governing the work of the police, are such that your colleague, who is now leaving, former criminalist Kangler, should tell you. These are things that are criminal delinquents, and the conviction that went to your account is justified. Especially because of what several of my predecessors and speakers have said about how you have acted, how you have had a relationship with citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in Ljubljana and other places that have benefited from their right to unification, to express public opinion and also to protest. All that has been said to you, that is why I should have you without your resignation, which you carried out 13. 6., the Prime Minister replaces. I don't know why he hasn't done it yet. Does this benefit him and benefit him? Unfortunately, he's not here today to be asked about it. You're irrevocably giving up 30. 6. 2020. We've told you this several times and you'll hear it a few more times. Therefore, if I derive from Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 12 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, your subordinate work is illegal and illegal. The same goes for your neighbor, the secretary, who, at the time of your resignation, also lost his position and mandate. In fact, if the minister resigns, his function ceases automatically. That's what our constitution and the legislation I quoted earlier says. You said that we were talking about the rule of law, Mr. Former Minister. And if in the letter you gave to Ivan Janez Janša, President of the Government, there is a declaration that you are resigning, and the President of the Government allows you to continue as Minister, he is also in grave violation of the Constitution and the law. Just as I said before, the resignation is understood by the Slovenian Constitution and the Democratic Officer, who is part of the SDSS Patronate, announced on 16 July 2020 that Aleš Hojs resigned irrevocably. This is the resignation statement that anyone who can read, in short, a primary school student, has the opportunity to read online. Further, the Minister – former Minister – what did you have in mind in your oath – why do I say the former, because you resigned and ceased your mandate from then on — what did you have in mind at the time of your oath to do according to the Constitution when you sat there after your appointment? In fact, with your continued management of the Ministry of the Interior following the resignation of this matter, as I told you before, you are in violation. You don't have anything to look for there. You've resigned. You are practically proving to the public by your conduct that you do not care about the Constitution and the laws. In the country of law you mentioned earlier, we're talking about it. Fellow Members and Members, I would say that we are talking today about the substantive reasons why a man named Aleš Hojs, who is the Minister who has resigned, must leave the premises of the interior ministry. In fact, he is actively involved in the decommissioning of the rule of law in Slovenia, attacks on human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. First, I will say, as has been said several times, through the deployment of SDS loyal personnel to the leading positions of security and prosecution authorities, with the loyalty of the staff to the policy implemented by the current Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša, and in this way it is practically illegal and without jurisdiction to interfere and direct the work of the police, when these personnel continue, with the help of loyalists to the policy we are talking about today, not only about your work. All of this testifies to your active role and participation in the SDSS project in transforming the Democratic Republic of Slovenia into a corporate country. A corporate country like Germany and or Italy before II. World War II when political parties or one political party in each of these countries controlled, guided and took political independence from key state subsystems, such as the police, the military, security services. In Slovenia it is military and police, today it is also the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, Surs, Furs, Prosecutor's Office; everywhere where you could as institutions or should open up a number of questions concerning your work and also the functioning of the government of Ivan Janez Janša. From the former minister, targeted police are illegally legitimising citizens on the road. It's illegal. This was legally proven, lawyers wrote when it happened on Trubar Street in Ljubljana. Take them to the square of the Republic when they read the Constitution to which you refer, Minister, ex. It physically violently removes them from public spaces; in short, unlawfully punishes and intimidates them, interfering with their freedom of movement, association and expression. Also through the policy of ignoring culture and art, which is implemented by you, the Aleš Hojs, the Janšev government only communicates with culturers and artists in Slovenia through police measures and repression. I speak because, in particular, cultural people are particularly present in the Market of the Republic, a space that they have the right to occupy as a public space. Instead of opening up a place for culture and art in Slovenia to provide finance and living conditions, to create, the Ministry of Culture ignores them and kills them financially – we know that – but the Ministry of the Interior physically removes them from doing so, prohibits them from expressing them and punishes them with fines, offences. In short, the possibility of cultural creation for cultural people in Slovenia is taken away; also with the help of your operation and direction of police officers in Slovenia. If we even remember the burning of books that members of your political line carried out before time, this only confirms the fact that they are samples of the iron repertoire of the regime that was defeated with NDH 75 years ago. I ask the parties and Members of the SMC, Desus and NSI, whether in the fact that you will support the Minister whose resignation is constitutionally authorised in his work so far, the coalition agreement with Janez Janša will force you. Ignoring the unconstitutionality, illegality in the work of Aleš Hojs, the former minister – I say that there is no longer a minister because he has resigned, at least after the constitution and the law, as he says, is another – which citizens on the street, the media, the profession in various fields are alerting to today's interpretation, means that you, Members of the coalition, with its unconstitutional, illegal operation, agree and give him a mandate to continue this activity. For the present breakdown of the rule of law, which is clearly visible and today represented, practically when you vote and give it a mandate ahead, you take responsibility. Is that your decision, I ask? Citizens and citizens accompanying us now wonder whether you will be able to decide on your own behalf when voting on a confidential vote for the benefit of those who have given us a mandate in this National Assembly. These are citizens and citizens. Let me get this straight. It is true what New Slovenia's Member said, Mr Chernigoj, today's interpolation brings nothing. That's right. The political, economic, social and financial problems of Slovenia will be increasingly critical as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is led by Ivan Janez Janša. I hope that we will not conclude this debate with John and the chameleon sigh: I again feel guilty. Think of the damage, the political, economic and human rights issues, and our future, which we are causing with such behaviour – also with yours, former Minister Aleš Hojs – to the Republic of Slovenia and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Brickler, just a nice tip that we'll be right. If you may have a problem in voicing the SDS shortcut, I suggest that you use their full name in future discussions, so that there is no uncertainty. We continue the debate. Mr. Joseph Horvath has a word, prepare the mags. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Dear colleagues and colleagues! I admit that, despite a few miles away, such a subject is the most tiring. I wonder myself what we are going to do today with this 17-hour debate. How much higher will the standard of citizens and citizens of this country be? How much better will solutions be for some new normality that we have to go through because of an epidemic or a new coronary virus? I prefer European themes, economics, development. Well, if I am with the Europeans, of course I remember what we all know about the European Parliament's adoption of the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism on 2 April 2009. Everyone can read or any member of the national Parliament should know this content. Allow me to understand all the developments since January 27th. Mr Aleš Hojs would not be sitting here today as a minister unless Marjan Sarec resigned unexpectedly on January 27th this year. That resignation was a mistake. This withdrawal was a mistake! Thank you for making the government, thank God. They'd probably be the only country in the world that would be in an election campaign as soon as possible. Of course, interpellation — perfectly normal — is the legitimate tool of every opposition. Understand, too, that we are also political parties here, who respect the treaties that uphold the rule of law or the principle of ducta sunt servanda – treaties must be respected. And a coalition contract is a contract. I've said it many times before. It's not some self-governance agreement. It's a contract. And you know what it says. My understanding and interpretation of all these events is as follows. With the intervention of Minister Hojs only because of the assessment of an official in the Ministry under his authority, the motioners, more specifically the Social Democrats, want to take the political and ideological left-wing initiative against our government than the Sharchevs. Sorry, that's my view. This is where the Social Democrat works. Basically, it is a struggle, a domination on the left political level, which, despite talking about the importance of content and orientation in the future, will be on an ideological level. To put it simply, this time the government is trying to start a major ideological divide here in Slovenia – it is partisans against patriots. We just haven't been able to end World War II for so many years and it's driving us away from our development efforts. My gift to the President of the Republic and to the President of the Government, who in one day bowed to the victims who were buried in one way or another, who were thrown into the ground in the nomadic abyss and in the Turks. In fact, it is a competition, for attention within about a third of a more radical left-wing electoral body, in which the government is extremely hostile to our government. Among the left-hand parties there is some belief that only through this hard left base can the dominance on the left be ensured and through it a jump to power. For hundreds of days or not after the hundreds of days of our government, we have been thus witnessing a race in the rapid investment of interpretations, by which the competing parties on the left of the target base demonstrate their warmth in the fight against the hated authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, for us the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is a sacred thing, just as the sacred thing is our country and our country. When we discuss this subject, it is important to stress that in New Slovenia, as completely rejected, we condemn all totalitarianism, including the constitution. Fatigue, like any other form of totalitarianism, regardless of whether it is fascism, Nazism or communism, belongs to the dumping ground of history. I don't know Mr. Perkovic's music. If you ask me a question about the Beatles, we can talk a lot, and I can lend you a record of vinyl that I got back in my college years when I had a couple of fiches left at the end of my month. That is why I am not going to discuss this here and anyone else's ads. I'm not doing an ad for this gentleman. I think it is worth saying something about the rule of law here. Let's take a look at the course of events. Why? This may have already been said today, but I think the people accompanying us today hope that there are not many, in fact they do not know what it is. Maybe we're talking about a concert that wasn't and won't be. So we're talking about a concert that wasn't and won't be. But slowly and in a row. The course of events. Croatian singer Marko Perkovic – Thompson wanted to have a concert at the Maribor Festival Hall in Lent in May 2017. Police have proposed to the administrative unit that the concert should be banned, as the information obtained would indicate an increased security risk. On 17 May 2017, the administrative unit banned the concert. This decision was later confirmed by the Ministry of the Interior under the leadership of then Minister Poklukar. On 11 June 2019, last year, the Administrative Court decided that the ban on the concert should be lifted and that the Administrative Unit of Maribor should be reinstated. Nevertheless, in May 2020, this year, the Maribor Management Unit again prevents the concert. On 3 June this year, the Ministry of the Interior, under the leadership of Minister Hojs, lifted the decision of the Maribor administrative unit banning the concert. And here is a quote from the 15th recital of the judgment of the Administrative Court. If we're talking about the rule of law, we need to be exact. I quote this 15th point, “It follows from the material of the first-degree body of the defendant that the organiser has done everything necessary to prevent any cause of violence, disturbance of public order and peace or the execution of criminal offences when he has notified the event in due time, to submit a security plan for the public event, to assess the level of risk, to plan the work of the directors, to order and rules at the public event, to plan the implementation of health care at the event, and to further conclude a contract with the police on additional protection and to publish a notice to the visitors of the concert in Maribor that the entry of visitors will be controlled in a manner that strictly prohibits the entry of things and objects: various controversial inscriptions, signs on clothes that could potentially trigger intolerance, hate speech or provocation.” End of point 15 of the statement of reasons for the judgment of the Administrative Court. Thus, the position of the Administrative Court reveals the very stricken foundations of this interpretation. It is difficult to support interpretation based on a decision that follows a court decision. In our view today is not the issue of a Croatian singer's concert, but of respect for judicial decisions. Too often, some talk out loud about respect for judicial decisions, but when they do not like one decision, they forget about it. And also, very important, article 6 of the Law on Public Collections, which deals with restrictions. “It is prohibited to organize meetings or events with a view to committing offences or to calling for the commission of offences or to causing violence, public order or public traffic interference.” As we have already announced on behalf of the Group of Members, we will not support the interpretation. Today I would be much more pleased, even if 27 hours were not to discuss what measures we should take for Slovenian society, for the Slovenian economy, so that the consequences of the second wave, which expands exponentially, will not be too severe. Slovenian society, the Slovenian economy can no longer afford another stop, another lockdown. Here we should shrink species, regardless of whether we are political competition, because we are also within the coalition, each time a coalition. But when it comes to people when it comes to the vital issue of this society, then we should show a little more respect for each other, a little bit more respect and focus our discussions on solutions that citizens will actually feel in a positive sense. We miss this in New Slovenia. We will, of course, do everything and more to preserve, if possible, all jobs. So far, we have managed to maintain around 270 thousand jobs, we have not forgotten anyone, the pensioners have received more than 450 million additional funding this year. We strive and hope that the National Assembly will confirm in the coming week the solution for pensioners to have 2% extraordinary pension coordination – we know that some or all are miserable. We have not forgotten about families, we have not forgotten about the economy, because if the economy goes well, everyone will do well. We have not forgotten about health care, I am glad that health is getting nearly 200 million more money in the balance sheet, 190 million more money, which will allow all available capacities in this country to help reduce waiting species. And when it comes to human rights, I conclude, first and foremost is the right to life or the right to health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The following shall have the floor of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u66	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Of course, I must intervene at all times in the correct position of the New Slovenia Group, with you, I admit, we do not have a bad experience with correctness. We have diametric opposite views, but I must point out some of the two that appear in the intervention of Mr Jožef Horvat, a respected colleague who, on the one hand, is very eager to call with the password of the sunset servanda. This is said to respect the agreements, but colleagues from New Slovenia ask what the Constitution is. What about the laws? I'm not just talking about Thomson, Your Honor Horvath. You've only focused on Thomson, but stories are everywhere. I'm saying that Mr. Hoys wants to direct the police instead of the Attorney General. Does New Slovenia receive this information? Are you aware of this? Or subjugation of the SDS. It's not in your best interest. These people are recruiting with SDS membership cards at Furs, at the Statistical Office – do you imagine? Statistical Office! Anti-money laundering. There are people with a SDS card. Jože, with all due respect, you jumped on the train then with those views, that's what's happening to us now. This is happening to us now. You actually have people who control Furs, NPU, GPU, Statistical Office. What else can we do for God's sake? We can't even hide our pants from SDS anymore. With all due respect, you have to step down irrevocably. Is this a mispronounced pacta und servanta Pacta sunt servanda as a pacta und servanta, to which Joseph Horvat further responds.? That's okay, that's in line with the Constitution. Is that a good thing? The only person — with all due respect to the minister — who mankind knows, who resigns — is still here. Even more when he resigned, he committed more sins than he had done before. He didn't start directing the police until after he gave up. Only after he resigned did he start recruiting with the police. It was only after he resigned that he began to legitimize people. It is said that a man who is no longer a minister of law is carrying out repression, unlawfully, by actually causing it. That's what we're doing today. We've been doing this for three months. We are like the Republic of Slovenia in a situation where our retired minister, irrevocably retired, is exerting repression in our country and you say, pacta und servanta, because you have to stick to coalition contracts. The law, the constitution, we must defend this as elected representatives of the people. Pacta und servanta, coalition contract over laws and above the constitution and we will therefore vote against today's interpretation of Aleš Hojsa, who believes more in the accused for organising prostitution than in his own police force; imposes illegal insights, sets up a fence for his own people and we refer to pacta und servanta!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u67	Thank you very much. He wanted a word with Replic. [[…]] Replica has the advantage, Mr. Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much for this response, dear colleague Matjaž. The pact of s-u-n-t servanda, I said. The pact of s-u-n-t servanda. I'm sorry. I had a relatively narrow discussion. I was focusing on interpolation. We can talk about everything that is common at such marathon sessions, but look, Nova Slovenija is a party within the coalition; we know what we are doing, we have an excellent ministerial team. Great. Our competitors themselves say that there is a surprise for this government, but after work we will appreciate them at the end of the term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u69	Thank you very much. He wanted to speak first, Mr. Hoys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u70	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would like to touch myself, too, just for a second of the execution of Mr Horvath. I have to say, it was really extremely correct, quite chronological. I'd still like to make it up to you. Your Honor, you may have forgotten in the introduction or missed one of the dates mentioned at the outset. You said it was 15. 5. 2017 Police PP Maribor I made a proposal to ban this concert. That's certainly true. That's what I said in the introduction. Unfortunately, I found the documents in my response to the interpolation only later. And this document carries the date 5 days earlier, it says 10. 5, when the police, the same police station, allowed the concert, gave their consent, told him that she was going to support him, Troll, the organizer, with five police officers. She said she'd pay him for it. I think it is right for the Slovenian public to know both documents. So not only did the court change or decide otherwise that the concert should be allowed but, as a result, the Ministry of the Interior followed this judgment, but PP Maribor issued two different documents within five days. First, the concert allows and then says that they'll even hire so many police officers and in five days they'll stop the concert. I don't know what happened in five days, but I'm sure there's an SD client. As far as what Mr. German said and, of course, indirectly attacked you, at least that's how I understood that you'd jumped on a train with your records, the police. I must say, Mr Horvath, I absolutely support you in everything you have presented here. You've presented absolutely correctly. The introduction and statements of the information officer who said that there are so many and so many Joseph Horvatov in Slovenia, so these lists can, too, take a look at some other persons. I mean, catastrophic answers, if you ask me. It's also true that it's interesting what the police saw a few minutes before midnight, if I understand you correctly, in your personal data. In order not to be a dilemma, I myself, after what you did – this move seemed extraordinary to me – also demanded a copy of the police's views on my personal data. Look, it says right here. Review of access based on the EMSO, date of my birth, complex EMSO. I believe that's what yours says. The information officer claims that he is on this extract, based on the EMHA where my EMHO is, that there are several Alešev Hojsev's copies in here. Well, as I know, there aren't many, there may be another one, but Joseph's Horvat is probably more, but still! Look, these are records for my EMHO and some case. Look at this case! Views: 11. 3, 11. 3, 11. 3, 11. 3. - Eight views. What was the 11th? Three, remember? The government was formed, the government was formed, the final procedures for who would be where the minister would be after we had done things. 12. 3rd View, 13. 3rd look, 17. 3rd look, 18. 3rd view, 19. 3rd view! If I keep going, the whole side of the view! I don't know what they were watching after they actually had me in physical protection. So what they were watching, after they actually knew about every step I took — 18. Three, 17. 3, 19. Three? So apparently the police are doing something that's incomprehensible. I don't know, I haven't looked ahead, maybe I'll take this next step. Just as I have dealt with those, if you remember, copies received by previous ministers, including Mr. Poklukar, who was full of mouths about transparency; copies of the OKC received by the Minister up to 12. 3. By 12. On 3 this year, the Minister of the Interior received non-animated reports from the operational and communication centres. Can you imagine? It's all written there; that Joseph Horvath – I'm talking under the nods, of course – was driving drunk, or that my daughter crashed, or that I don't know what, with names and surnames. That's what the minister was getting till he was 12. 3. And then it miraculously stopped; not so miraculously, the police decided. Let me say something else in this regard, which is scandalous. Your commission of inquiry, led by honourable Member Kaloh, Dejan Kaloh, is, of course, bound by Mr Franz Kangler, has requested copies of the parliamentary records. The MPs sent a signed agreement and look at the fragment, the police say they won't give it. The police say they will not give it because the Commission does not actually have this authority or does not have the authority to receive a request for inspection signed by Members if the Commission of Inquiry does not allow it. I must say, I felt direct when I said ugly, silly, when I explained to the honourable Member that he couldn't get it, because that's what the police said. Even more so when I called the police officer and asked him why he couldn't do it, he explained 10 articles to me, but at the same time he told me, unless you asked me explicitly in writing. You can imagine unless you explicitly order me this!? I think that in two hours or one day, an information officer was informed about this, waiting for me to order it in writing, that Mr German would have a new affair by ordering illegal views or what I am ordering the police. Well, I didn't decide what the gentlemen wanted to provoke with the police, my written order of something they couldn't do. Therefore, honourable Members, in the coming days, we have prepared them in the cabinet, prepared forms with your names and surnames, where you have already made such a request. All I'm asking is that you sign them, you put your EMHO in there, and you put it on the police. You will receive all the copies to your home; not to the commission, to your home. And then you can do whatever you want with those records. So you're also sending them to a parliamentary commission dealing with the abuse of Frank Kangler. It's amazing where we came from. It's amazing where we fell. That follows in the next few days. I'm concluding. Mr German speaks of client cards – I have heard this many times today – including employment. I have to say that a good week ago, I hired a former criminalist in my office, says a trained man who will lead a team that will work on migration. So on what I think today is to a large extent a rakrana or a rakrana of this security situation in Slovenia. And look at the fraction, this criminalist is a member of the SD! So I hope I don't have a problem with that either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We have a procedural proposal. Mr. Turtle Brickler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u72	Please, Madam President, if, in accordance with the Constitution of the former Interior Minister, you note that the point of discussion is the interpretation of his work. He spoke of all other matters; he was not only responsible for interpretation when he had interventions. He doesn't answer the key questions of interpolation at all. Please tell him to stick to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u73	Thank you very much for your intervention. At the beginning of my leadership, I have pointed out that we should stick to the subject and the content of the interpretation, and I believe that we have all read it, including Mr Hojs. However, the debate is very broad, so that even Members, given that Mr Hojs is discussing very widely, can, at least when I lead, also respond to these broad debates. The motioner wanted a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u74	I agree with both colleagues, because if Minister Hojs made a TV announcement today and made this dramatic contribution, as he knows it, then we would think that he really said something smart because I do not understand what he said with the current implementation, what we would be interested in Members as part of the interpolation. I am talking about these views when members of the coalition have already rushed to give an opinion on what the police can and cannot do. It is sadder that the Minister is doing what has already been proven to be a major mistake on the part of some Members that I no longer speak on this subject. Dear Joseph Horvath, with all due respect, I've been here six hours with this matter, and if you don't hear it, I'm very sorry. I think it would be more important for you to hear from me something else that I told you about the irregularities and the work of Minister Hojs, who are absolutely in violation of the legislation. So I'm sorry if you heard me wrong down there because it was very important to you. So the Minister said in an irrevocable resignation that there was nothing he could have done, that he had to allow Maloney to sit down. He can't do anything because he says we're explaining to ourselves that he would be in violation of the law because he would have intervened by signing into legal practice. Let's see what the minister doesn't want to see or hear. If Aleš Hojs, by a decision which, contrary to the police and the administrative unit, allows for oral counseling in Maribor, would not agree with it, it could be declared null and void by the well-respected Minister, who has always pointed out it, after the 280th Article of the ZUP, that is, the Law on Administrative Procedure, respected. A perfectly legal thing, if you know that the Constitution is banned or that the Constitution does not define the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia – perhaps from the NDH, but not from the Republic of Slovenia. So our valuable assessment, the respected minister, is that if someone comes to you in Slovenia, as in Israel and Germany and Austria, Slovenia is following these countries and such a concert is unconditionally banned; especially if there is a legal basis for this – paragraph 280, respected. Now you've spoken three times in six hours, said that you can't do anything with it, and that you'd act unlawfully if you'd done it. So the decision can be made under the Administrative Procedure Act – Hojs of course did not do so. However, he is the State's Attorney, a respected minister, as an advocate of public interest – and that should be us, Sir Joseph Horvat, Hojs, who should be – pressing charges before the Administrative Court. And now it's in the hands of the court. I will read to you once again that you will not spin around in the circle, “Decision may be rendered invalid at any time by official duty and at the request of a party or the State Prosecutor’s Office or the State Attorney’s Office.” This is the first paragraph of Article 280. I really wouldn't go any further, you can look at it, read it, and completely, forgive the expression, explain in a farmer's mind that you can do it. And don't cheat, don't lie to the public, because that's obvious to everyone, you just have to Google. Obviously, you don't care about the laws, you care more about leaving economic freedom on the one hand, no matter how much damage it can do to society. It is said that if a rich investor came with a raised hand, it would be more important than the values for which we fought in the post-war period not only the Slovenians, but the whole Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u75	Thank you very much. My friend Andrei Reich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I wish today's interpolation wasn't necessary, but the events of the past months are the reason we're here today. It was only then that Mr Hojs's hearing of the candidate for Minister of the Interior gave him a sense that the Minister himself does not hide his ideological, far-right, political definition and hides his words. In fact, I often find his communication thoughtless, inappropriate, and acting essentially authoritarian. At the hearing, he himself said that he wanted to make order at the police, the prosecution, and the judiciary. And we can ask ourselves here, where the candidate, then the candidate for minister, this desire to work on the police, the judiciary and the prosecution order. In fact, those words he then uttered at the hearing were manifested in his actions. If I am not mistaken, he has made it public to the National Investigation Office to carry out a politically motivated work, to state publicly that the police do not serve citizens and citizens and that they are in the service of a deep state and that the judiciary and the prosecution are also involved in the judicial structure of the parties. We must not forget, however, that it was at that time that the police launched an investigation against the Minister of Economy, Mr Počvalšk, and that he is also investigating certain media that are close to the SDS. Later, certain information was also leaked to the public as to how the police, in fact, should treat the protestors in the Minister's instructions. In this light, I would point out the events in Slovenian Bistrica when the guard surrounded the police station and its reactions were slightly delayed and the instructions were significantly more mild than the conduct he gave the police how to deal with the offenders. However, I would like to touch more substantively on the withdrawal statement made by the Minister. I will only give a comparison of how, after such a practice, when a letter is sent, a person claims that it does not come into force because it does not open up, how citizens may feel after such statements when he receives a letter from the official institution and begins to run an administrative deadline and will be considered to be served. Would an ordinary citizen then be able to say that the letter was not served because he had not opened it? This is the question that this practice raises. Remember, administrative procedures run by administrative deadlines, and even if the addressee does not take over the letter, it is considered to be hot and read. Such a practice, which is now being put into practice by representatives of the highest branch of government, can lead to great and unpredictable consequences for legal certainty. In addition, I would like to say that I believe that the Minister should, at every step, strengthen the reputation of Slovenian institutions, the Slovenian judiciary, the Slovenian prosecution, and this is particularly important in these difficult covid times. Since this message is to the economy, what is this message to foreign investors, what is the message that foreign investors should understand the words of the representatives of the Communications Office, the words of the Foreign Minister in this light when we have a record debt? Do these words and actions strengthen the economy, build confidence in Slovenia? Of course, that's not a rhetorical question. These are difficult questions. These are questions to be answered. Of course, we can answer that such actions do not enhance the reputation of Slovenia. I think the interpolation is justified, and that's why I'm going to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u77	Thank you very much. My colleague Janez Moskritch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I am very pleased that the President of the National Assembly has taken over the meeting. Because the Vice-President of the National Assembly has now held a very biased meeting. In fact, we received the material for today’s agenda in writing, which is very narrow, although very broadly the same topic is well-founded. Today, however, the proposaler provided an additional explanation, where he added the topics very widely, and so the minister and the other discussers also wanted to respond as widely as possible. That's one thing I want to point out first. The second is that the speaker of the interpretation also literally insulted, says recognition, is not a state symbol, but recognition of the Apple of Inspiration, which is given by the President of the Republic, is no joke. This, however, is also one of the national symbols – for my understandings. Let's get to the interpolation thing. As I said, at the beginning of this interpretation, almost a confidant was added to the government because more was said about the Prime Minister than about the Minister who is the subject of the interpretation. The basic reason for the interpolation material was already a thousand and 265 days ago. If plastic is shown, these are three quarters in 2017, the whole year 2018 and the whole year 2019 and three quarters in 2020. There you go. Who else keeps calendars? I just happened to have them myself. A thousand 265 days for the story of a concert involving a few ten people, maybe a few hundred. Definitely not a few grand because space wouldn't allow it. And since we are members of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the left have repeatedly been accused of anything that can overcome the evil of the 20th and 21st centuries, I first ask myself what I was doing. At the time, I had a 12-day-old son, and then I tried to run the company as hard as I could, and I built a house. These are things that I think were of interest to most Slovenians. The vast majority of Slovenians have had these joys or responsibilities. So children, family, company, job, if they've created something – a house, a garden, and so on. With this concert, as I said, a few tens, maybe a few hundred people were involved. A few hundred people were involved and government authorities were involved. The state authorities have begun to deal with permits; we know that for smaller matters, first of all, only the police, the local community, are the administrative unit for larger matters. We all know that. And don't be necessary, after a thousand 265 days we are still engaged; as I have found, this procedure is not yet concluded, because there can be certain compensations and so forth. I can say for myself - disaster! Or would you rather not spend a thousand and 265 days working with nursing homes to increase fertility in this country? Finally, before this meeting, the European Union Affairs Committee, where we dealt with the country's agricultural policy, dealt with floods and reptiles because new maps need to be drawn up in this country. No! No! Also 17 hours to be allocated, this Parliament has not yet dealt with fertility or with the particular topic I have presented. On the other hand, we can say that if we have been dealing with a certain marginal topic for a thousand 265 days and this sowing has damaged the reputation of this country, in the domestic sense, and on the other hand, what happened, for example, in the seventeenth year. In 2017, July 17th, there was one thing that is happening again, and many more people are interested. That's when Primož Roglic won, the first time he won the Tour de France. These things were people who were interested and who brought the reputation of Slovenia, and in these days when we sow empty straw – forgive me, including me – is again successful, citizens are proud of it, cheering as much as they can in these given situations, and these are the topics where the lights are on. Such approaches of negativity, condemnation; interpretation only because you don't like this government and because you have to start somewhere – that is to say, you can't start the government's first challenge with a confidant of the government, you start with individual ministers. Nor was it at the beginning of the hundreds of days of respect, which is what makes people even more resistant to politics. This government and this minister are in power for 190 days — only 190 days — and in these 190 days they had to implement something even more important than one decision. Therefore, I believe that even in those days of June, when this last decision was issued, the Minister was not paying any attention to this, he preferred to take care of a number of other matters. These are things that will need to be changed further. And I'm pretty sure that's what this government is for. It is said that matters are regulated as far as possible and that things are not being warmed up backwards, that the maximum rational use of state institutions is also being made. The most interesting thing is to read what is more at the end, “4. 5. 2020 Maribor administrative unit issued a decision to ban the concert from 20. 5. 2017.’ Does this mean that this is the purpose of the State to issue useless decisions? This is an unusable decision, I would say. This is an unusable decision. These decisions, I don't even know if it would be necessary to say that you won't hold me to the floor, so there are procedures, of course they have to be respected, but something is also rationality and feasibility and so on. [[…]] This is just as my late mother got from the Clinical Center — three months after her death — so she can now come to the hip painting. So it shouldn't have happened because the computer should have blocked her file. As for this decision, it would not be necessary to issue itself. 28 tickets have been sold abroad for this concert and we are now doing an ad here! He didn't even get that kind of publicity from his own country! There's only one thing I'd like to draw attention to, but there are concentration camps. In the last period, including this interpolation, concentration camps are always referred to. This is an insult to those who were concentration camps in the 20th century. Including my father, not my old father, my father, who was in Rab for nine months. To say that certain institutions of this country, democratic members of the European Union, have concentration camps in their area is an insult to the still living and all the dead who have been in them. Therefore, I strongly oppose such insults and such behaviour of our opposition. Therefore, I ask that you have some relation to this common past history. We are always part of Europe: whether we are part of a common country, whether we were Austro-Hungarian or then we were different countries – we are always in this area and we are always and some have suffered, and some have suffered this suffering. They didn't come from any other continents. So do not use the horror of the past century to interpret the working government, I will say, under democratic conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with my predecessor and therefore it is necessary to prevent concerts such as Thompson's concert and various intolerances, which spread exactly this throughout Slovenia and of course the world. Allow me – I think this is very important. One of the many findings is that the police are subordinated to the SDS party. It seems important to me that the general public is aware of the fact that this is indeed the case and I will tell it on the case. Much has been said — because of various human resources. So all those who are part of the profession, named by the Minister of the Deep State, are members of a deep state, are withdrawn and placed those who can be faithful to one and only; we know who we are talking about – the great leader. I don't mean Minister Hoys. Hoys is just a symbol of what the party president represents. You have probably read in public in the last two, three days, on the uncensored internet portal.si, about the surveillance story that was carried out in February, when current Minister Zvonko Černač and current Secretary of Security Affairs in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister visited the NPU, the GPU and the criminal police along with one of the members of this Parliament, and wanted to look into their work when we are talking about open criminal and order procedures – it is uncensored.si – which are related to the Vice-President of the Slovenian Government – this is with Mr. Zdravko Počvalski. After writing this medium it is Terme Olimia and some other Slovenian companies and Serbian entrepreneur Miodrag Kostic. In fact, after writing, Zvonka Černač, the current minister, is also interested in whether any proceedings against Restoration are still open. Let me remind you, this is the period when the new government was formed and just before that. Of course, at the request of our colleague, Jerce Korča, we also asked that the NPU or the GPU allow us to look into these records, which we have already seen. I read what this record says, I know what it says, I know what these guys or gentlemen were asking, I know what the content they were interested in, I know how they wanted to preserve or eliminate – in the notes to preserve – crime, and that was, of course, rejected. Thus, the Slovenian public will most likely, according to the GPU, never be aware of whether these gentlemen abused their position or whether these gentlemen were working solely in the interest of the SDS party. And as a result of the final takeover of the General Police Administration of the Slovenian Police, I can say that this protects the visible members of the SDS who have actually exceeded their powers because, in so far as it has happened, they have exceeded their powers. With the document sent to Knovs, I can say with all certainty today, because it is confirmed black in white, that the General Police Administration has absolutely submitted itself to the SDS party on the basis that it makes it impossible for the Commission and the public to look into the record – what we have already done, so this record is interesting because we have seen it and know what it says – to see what these gentlemen have wanted since then. I think that this is also very important in the context of the state-of-the-art nature of some of the coalition partners and those words that have already been said several times today. Thank you very much, President, for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u81	Thank you very much. My colleague, Marjan Sarec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, President. We sit for 17 hours today, or we should sit, as was said, and it would not be necessary for Aleš Hojs to adhere to the Constitution and the standards that have been stopped. If only you'd done it after an irrevocable resignation. Because he said he was irrevocably resigning, that the President of the Government had accepted the resignation. After we waited a week to figure out what they'd remember, because we saw something coming, the Prime Minister of the Government said vehemently that he hadn't opened the envelope. In short, respected Aleš Hojs, you used to talk about how LMŠ was making fun of the presentation when you requested Article 37a or any other thing, for you, what is not agreeing with you is a hundred percent mockery. But more fun than that, after one week, the President of the Government says that he has not opened the envelope, of course we do not remember that in modern democracy and European democracy. The proposaler Matjaž Germany could not even think in dreams that you would be irrevocably giving up so that you are still here today and not that you are still here, but – as Matjaž German correctly stated – you have only just got off to a good start with your activities. Your work is, of course, much broader than this context, which you repeat in the SDS party today, when there was no Thompson concert, it will not. I will not lose words about the uprising because everyone who is either old enough to remember it, or those who respect history, well know what the uprising was and that there is no place for the uprising in modern society. And this is the most disgusting and disgusting thing that exists – of course, in addition to other such organizations. Anyone who doesn't know this can read it in books and elsewhere. That's not how I'm gonna lose my word today. But I would like to point out that you showed the whole core of your actions at the moment you stepped for the pay phone. You've taken off your mask vehemently. When the messengers and the messengers warned you to put on a mask, you said, "We are far apart." Not me, Mr. Hoys! You have prescribed these rules, you have prescribed — whether government or anyone else, because it is not well - known — that they must be indoors of the mask. Now you've prescribed in open spaces that we have to wear masks, where there are more people. Of course, we don't know how much more it is again, but whatever it is. In short, this mask is a trivial matter, but it illustrates the essence of your action. So it can be this way, it can be different than I can imagine at that moment. Just like the entire state summit you walk beautifully without a safety distance, you shake hands while others are forbidding or recommending not to do so. That's how you work at the Ministry of the Interior. Just like it's good for you. When the director of the police was unable, capable or unwilling to – however – stop the investigations in disputed operations with protective equipment, you appointed another police director, who is obviously more obedient. The fact that you're throwing up on the motioners today is that it's a banal interpretation, that you're trying to talk about just some concert, that's a larifari. You know very well that interpolation would be even more widespread if we invested it today. I wouldn't want to do any advertising to the media or anything, but today we could read in one medium again about a plot. I don't know, but maybe you'll get another interpolation on this subject because you're not going to step down. When you are mocking us about how to put into interpolation and how these interpolations have no meaning and end purpose, I repeat: after hundreds of days of our government I have received a constitutional indictment, not just interpretation, but a proposal for a constitutional indictment for failure to implement a constitutional decision on schools, it is said to be private and public. Even after six months of this government, this decision has not yet been implemented, just as many others have not yet been implemented. Mr. Hoys, it's hard to believe anything you say if you step down irrevocably, you tell the camera that you're irrevocably giving up, that the Prime Minister has accepted your resignation, and then it's like nothing has happened. What should we think about what citizens and citizens should think, and how should we believe you, after you are also taking significantly more important measures in the fight against covid 19? Don't make any mistake, we're admitting them! You see, I'm wearing a mask, I'm sticking to all the preventive measures, and I'm not, like they try every day on television, which you used to be the director, to convince us how we deny the virus. We do not deny the virus, but we deny your ability to have a healthy judgment when it comes to various measures, because you do not stick to them. And I repeat, with this mask in the beginning, you are probably reluctant, but you have pointed to the whole spectrum of your action: as you are pleased, so it is. It seems to me that such a government, which has such ministers who have irrevocably withdrawn ministers, who then begin to work with some full power after their resignation, is difficult to trust. And I'm not going back. Ours, as it was, was, of course, the worst thing in the world for you when you were in opposition, because it is logical, even today you have the opportunity to be on the government, you had every opportunity to communicate nicely with citizens and citizens, to communicate nicely with political opponents, with journalists or anyone, but when we look at yours, we see that communication is inappropriate, measures or measures are inappropriate, that the example you set with respect for these measures is that I do not even lose words about it. All you can say is that for migration, of course, after Janez Janša said in the face of 2018 that if he is Prime Minister, the border will be inextricably closed, and it is not, and again, the opposition is guilty because it has not confirmed Article 37a. You will always have someone else to blame — we're used to it — and never you. That is why it would be at least what we would expect of you – but such utopians, of course, we do not and we know that this will not happen – at least what we would expect of you would be to save us today 17 or less, I hope that, hours of debate, when someone would simply open that envelope – although he probably opened it and realized that he needed you in that role too quickly – in order to make it happen and withdraw and then it would not be necessary. So your actions regarding the protests, about the NPUs, about other matters concerning the police, guidelines that are not, but are pressures. Nice of one of the police unions to say you're under pressure. Now I don't know if they're making it up or if there's got to be something on it. According to your operating mode, there is probably something on it, or there is definitely something on it. I have no doubt that if it turns out that you really bought a parcel after very favourable cases, in this case, some police director will call and ask about a particular case, as was the case at the time of the acquisition of the protective equipment. Also this migration group you set up. You set it up so that you put those insubordinate personnel that aren't your age somewhere so you could say you hired them. So the substance is even more essential than it is in the interpolation, but of course, as I said, Matjaž the German with us all in his dreams could not think that something like this is even possible, because in some normal democracies it does not work that way. The next time you step in front of the cameras, in the Odessa, in 24 hours or elsewhere, and explain to us the measures to prevent covid-19, you may leave this work to someone else who people will believe in more because you are doing the most harm to respect the measures in the fight against the new coronavirus yourself because you are building your credibility in all possible ways. I will, of course, support the interpolation, like all our Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u83	Thank you very much. A colleague, Predrag Baković, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u84	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to define myself around these views, the records that Minister Hojs has pointed out. I wish, Mr. Minister, that you would go to the end of the matter and actually find out and verify who, which records and what purpose he was looking into. Because given that you've pointed out date 11. 3. But perhaps as a slight knowledgeer of this area, I can say that it may have been something else. However, it may have been that as Minister of the Interior you are a protected person and that there is a need to write a security plan around it, and if a security plan is written, you will probably have to correct what information you have. So, I really wish you'd get to the bottom of this, and then you'd announce what happened. Now I would actually touch Mr. Zaberl there. He has been exposed many times today, but I must say that in some poor connotation, because it is supposed to be a quasi-expert or a member of a political option. You know, I will say this: I know Mr Zaberl as an exceptional expert, an expert in police law and author of many professional articles, including a co-author of police law, who worked with several ministers, including Minister Gorenak. That's why I would count it an honor for you to come by and warn me about some things, but I would certainly cut my ears if I warned you that I might be doing something wrong. But I would now like to read an excerpt from your comment, or magnetogram, from which we can actually understand something. I quote, “because it is said that we are interfering in open matters, that Iranian money is finished, the prosecution has told the prosecution, and even if it were not, no one gets involved, no one interferes, no one gives instructions to the police director, no one else to direct or do anything else with the investigation. All these procedures, which are written in the mandatory instructions referred to in point 4, are concluded for the police: either a report has been submitted or a criminal complaint has been filed. So the task of the police director is to verify that in the procedures that are concluded for the police, his team – if I say more domestically – his criminalists and his affairs do the things he has to do, or maybe he has forgotten something. He may have forgotten something on purpose, but he may not have listened to someone.” From what you've said, I can somehow elicit that you don't understand the point of limitations relating to the actions of the instructions. See, it is the hearing that must be notified to the Attorney General and has the right to be present at this hearing. Article 148a of the Criminal Procedure Act also speaks of this. If I'm plastic, and if I can illustrate what it looks like when the police get a complaint — because the police most often get it — let the state prosecutor know, if necessary, do some investigative work, of course, also through an investigative judge, and then, when all the notices are collected, the prosecutor will be sued with all the annexes. And the prosecutor looks at it, and when he finds out that someone may not have been heard to direct the police to carry out yet certain acts; so hear him out, hear him out, do it, collect a message from him, collect a message from another. That's exactly the point the D.A. has to take care of. Of course, it is the task of the police to use, for example, coercive means in these procedures, and to verify the eligibility of the use of these coercive funds and, of course, to give an opinion. If there have been serious consequences, there must be a commission, and I believe you know that. We all know that the Prosecutor has a supervisory function and Article 148, paragraph 7, states that the person against whom an act referred to in Article 148 has been used shall be entitled to appeal within three days to the competent State prosecutor. The competent prosecutor shall inform the complainant orally or in writing within eight days of the lodging of the complaint. So, once again, I am proving that he is the master of the procedure, if this is a crime, the prosecutor. And the hearing is a process done by the police and may and must be carried out, as stated in article 148a, but it says, “in the hearing, the prosecutor may also be present, and he must be informed accordingly by the police.” So if you're somehow giving direction or expressing fear that someone might not have been heard, it's a process that's actually within the power of the prosecution. And that's what's at stake, and that's what shows that you don't understand the point of restricting the provision of instructions in cases where proceedings have been taken over by the Prosecutor's Criminal Procedure Act. I liked it when you said that you would always take those who work legally to the defense and so would the officials. That's right. However, at the next moment, I really don't understand how you could still be at a stage when the investigations were being conducted, and they immediately realized that this was a political construct, that this was a political setup, that this was not a matter for the police to work professionally, but that it was a matter of doing it as a deep state – you kind of expressed yourself. Once again, the police have been ordered by the investigating judge, the investigating judge is the one who issues the order on the proposal of the prosecutor. Prepare her, inform the police that the prosecutor, the prosecutor, will decide whether or not to make a motion to the investigating judge for a house order. And when he gives it, he's on the investigating judge to decide whether or not he'll give it, and the police have no influence on it. Once the police get a warrant for a house investigation, they just have to do it. However, even at the stage of these investigations in humans, let us already define that this is a political construct, that it is a deep state or anything, and that, of course, can be a problem. I think that no one can decide in such a short time that this is not an act, but that at that time the following can happen, that someone, in accordance with Article 148 of the Criminal Procedure Act, can appeal either to the prosecution or to the police, or to the investigating judge who issued the house investigation order and so on. The Minister, as an exposed person who says it in a camera, says it's a political construct, is really running over his own people who should actually represent them. It's people, it's not numbers back here, it's not I don't know, I really don't think that the whole line and the prosecutors and the investigating judges and the police are connected to give these house investigations, these house investigation orders, that these investigations are done at the addresses where they are. [[…]] That's what hurts. As I know the NPU – in fact, I would like to ask you, there are probably a few controls at the National Investigation Office, but I wonder if it has ever been found that they have acted biasedly or according to my information that I can get from the media, and I haven't seen them once. Not once. You'll be able to explain. Finally, I would also like to define myself as to the directions you have been giving on Twitter, or the instructions, or some publications you have posted on Twitter as the Minister of the Interior, which I find somewhat inappropriate. But first, I would like to define the following; when you published those tweets, you announced that it was a crime of endangering health. There is no criminal act of endangering health; there are crimes against human health; and you may have had in mind the treatment of communicable diseases. This crime can only happen then, so the crime is committed if the perpetrator has caused the spread of the communicable disease, i.e. the infestation of at least one other person. The consequence of this crime is, therefore, the extension of the communicable disease. The Criminal Procedure Act, art. 148, says that if there are grounds for suspicion that a crime has been committed, the police must do everything necessary. So if we have a crime of transmission of communicable diseases before we start collecting notifications, the signs of this crime must be met. However, the signs are not fulfilled if at least one is not infected, which is, in fact, impossible to identify in these protests. Then, of course, the tweets, which were then clear, and I can read them again, "all those who ask what the police have done today in Ljubljana, I answer that they have described a large number of meetings that will be ingrained. It will also press charges against organisers and participants, because it is a crime of endangering health, but do not expect it to be the cause of violence.” See, the crime of endangering security has not yet been committed and that the Minister publishes such a tweet, I, as a citizen, can understand it as a threat. As a threat that now all those present in these protests are going to be in and out of the way or in and out of the way. And another tweet, "I expect that the police will use all publicly published images and contributions from media or social networks to identify all those who are required to be criminally indicted as participants in Friday's and today's exits. Most citizens take care of the health of all and take account of the decisions". We come to the paradox of looking for perpetrators of a crime before there are any grounds to suspect that this crime has been committed. So, according to our own words, we can't tell the police to collect notices about something that isn't a crime yet. If it's an experiment. However, in this case, it is not an experiment because the sentence is up to one year in prison. It is automatic if it is not included in an article of a specific crime for up to three years or, in particular, in that it does not. These are the controversial things I want to point out without ideology, without everything. Here, Your Honor, in my opinion, you went over the edge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Violet Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u86	Thank you very much, President, for your word. We've heard a lot, and it's hard to find anything not to repeat, but I'll try to say something new. This is actually a farce because this same minister is not a minister anyway, because he resigned more than two months ago. That's why I'm not going to say "respectable minister," because, excuse me, you're not one of me. In the meantime, when you've resigned, you've changed your staff, you've broken your rules of procedure, your constitution, your laws, everything. It seems so much more like you've had your hands untied since you're no longer a minister. In short, you are in violation of the Constitution in Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure, Article 12 of the Government Act and so on, but on the one hand, you know, I understand you. You can't give up any time you want, but Janez Janš must let you. Isn't that sad? Janez Janša, who has a small mailbox when he gets the mail from Slovenia, even when he cannot open the mail, which he knows the contents of will not like. And that's very sad, actually. We'll be discussing something here for 17 hours. What are we going to discuss? About a government that, by the system, what can they do to us, they're in violation of all the laws that they can. I'd call it the will to power. These are laws for superhumans, first-class, as Janša likes to say, they are members of SDS, and then some satellites that support you for their interests. And then you tweet instructions that are basically some dog bombs that cover up real problems in the country. This reminds me very much of yesterday's meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, when we proved in the opposition that Mr Cerjak's candidate did not meet the conditions for the STA supervisor, that another candidate had already been elected, that it was published in the Official Journal, but members of the coalition pressed "for" despite knowing that they were making a serious mistake. And you know, as Mr. Perich says, what are you going to do, it's a waste of time. Yeah, it's not a waste of time! People are watching you, people are watching us, people are judging us, and sooner or later, you're gonna pay, if not sooner, for the elections. For all else is deceit, a mere seduction, which belongs to the wasteland of history. People are asking us why the opposition does nothing to save us from these governments that respect no one. All we can do – and democracy is mathematics – is we have as many votes as we have and we cannot defeat with the SNS your 50 or 51 votes. However, we invest and it doesn't matter who puts the interpolation into position, but once it's filed by one client, the other way around. But look, we've convinced one of them that maybe he's dead enough, and that's a member of Desusa Polnar who's going to support the interpolation. So not everyone is so blindly convinced of some commitments that have nothing to do with reality and reality. It's like Jelinčič said the people are stupid. He's not stupid and he's not illiterate. And when they wonder where you got this resignation statement: it was published in all the media, it was presented in a press release that Mr. Hojs organised. I will read to you the reason for his resignation, which, "Despite the staff exchange at the top of the police and the exchanges carried out so far by the Director-General of the Police, I estimate that the udbov-party structure of the decisive police work in connection with the prosecution and the judiciary of this same province is so strongly anchored in the system that, with the existing legislation and powers that I have as Minister in relation to the police, it does not enable me to effectively depoliticise and change in the police." So, what was that all about? He demanded more untied hands. For with the existing law and with the powers that he had, he could not make order. Then apparently, the Prime Minister of the Government promised him more loose hands, because only then did the soup of fun start with human resources exchanges, where the profession was replaced for political personnel, illegal pressure on protestors, requirements for the revision of the NPU. Well, interestingly enough, we didn't find any revisions of the case of Patrio, NKBM, Zvon1, Zvon2. Investigations of suspicious SDS operations were of particular interest and wanted to stop them. And conflicts with the unions. You know, the police unions said on September 16th that they had transformed into a strike committee, because the stakes were blackmail and intimidation. You have conditioned the payment of the Schengen allowance to police officers by not pointing out irregularities in the police; they are constantly subjected to politicization, humiliation, spreading lies and humiliation. We know the cases of a very decorated policeman who took photos with a cyclist who is not a lazy man, but worked all day and then went to protests, legitimate protests against the government, and, of course, you bullied him. About the tweets you've been pouring people with, I'd say that people aren't stupid enough to realize that this is all left-to-right and these ideological reasons that we've been listening to since we were 40 are just a cover for this octopus that's destroying the country, doing another republic. And as Zdravko says, it's not about ideology, it's not about left-right, it's about euros. Here you can see that it's essentially a serious abuse of state resources. The resting place got from the SMC mask, KSEVT, tourism, because the country is a prey. Desus has received Slovenian state forests – we know that this is a big deal – and the demographic fund after the new one, don't we? In short, the SDS is at the root of this deep state and has a para-state that is in the hands of the elite. When are you going to miss it? It's simply about funding from abroad, suspicious crime syndicates. And today it is possible to break laws and constitutions, even work toward the edge and the edge of the law, but you must not warn. Suddenly, infamous Article 133 was reopened, for freedom of speech exists only for the same thinking. We have already experienced complaints to Members, Rok Snezič is a doctor of tax evasion, and no one will say that he does not see the billboards by the highways Open the company in Bosnia because they are lower taxes. I propose to Roku Snezic and to everyone who follows him that then where they pay taxes, they also train their children and, in case of illness, they are treated there, because our systems are financed from the tax box. But loyalty is worth it, right? SDS supporters, SDS members get functions, jobs, commissions. We saw that in 2006 Popovic, Janša, Gantar met when Gantar — the head of Desusa — was still the mayor of Piran. And what? Minister Hoys gets a symbolic price pitch with a sea view. I think that's also one price for his great loyalty to the Prime Minister. In short, what can they do to us? But he sold him, look out, the Rus Marat Idrisov with permanent residence in Kazan in the Russian Republic of Tatarstan. Please! This is the government's business. And then you're telling me about 1941 and the post-war killings so that people can be completely mixed up. It's a theft of state property, it's a channelling of common money into private pockets, and you, the coalition MPs, hold the bag to these odd jobs. When you wake up, you will see that the country is gone and that you have managed to build something parastatal, a country that simply doesn't work anymore. Franci Matoz, counsellor and, I will say, the lawyer of this same SDS, also now – 1.8 million loans to buy through the straw company the largest biogas plant in the country of Vukja Vas. Keter's power plant is being leased by the company represented by Matoz's wife Natasha and has already received a good EUR 16 million subsidy from the country; in short, this is the deep country that the SDS is talking about. And, people, wake up! It's not about the left and right, it's about stealing state property, it's about the euro, Zdravko Restoršek told you nicely. And then Aleš Hojs calls on Twitter to press charges against organisers and protestors, and there will be protests in front of parliament soon, and these protests are legitimate. These protests have been all since the corruption affairs of this government have been revealed, and people are demanding resignations. People demand responsibility and answers as to where their money goes and what their children and their grandchildren will do when they have to pay for your drink. Not to mention our parents, who are in very poor condition at the moment, because the centres for older citizens do not work, health care does not work, we have some very bad parents at home, and so do I. A criminal act of endangering health. “But don’t expect it to be the cause of violence.” Threaten violence. You waited for the protestors to react in any way wrong, but they didn't. You took out the peace-loving readers of the Constitution and put pressure on them. How do you expect citizens to believe your actions if you do not respect them? While I was unable to visit sick mothers because of the change from congregation to congregation, you were in the same White Land eating grass. While everyone else obeys all the regulations, you wear a mask under your nose as if you were wearing your pants there under your genitals. While it's the first day of school, you're taking pictures with children from primary schools without a mask. When you punish and punish protestors and take photographs of who happens to be without a mask, I call on you to see why you have double standards. Why are you walking around Kolpa without a safe distance without a mask? Why didn't you order a police escort and facial recognition on Bez, say, when the big meeting was held? And don't make me think we have anything against believers, but there were three thousand people there. What is the difference between the meeting in the centre of Ljubljana and the meeting in Brez? Why are they safe there, not here? Why are you harassing little children that they have to go to kindergarten with masks if they can be infected by a grandmother who came from Brez or by a grandfather or a father, a mother. Foreign statesmen come — you don't wear masks and you don't have a safety distance. Janez Janša – happy birthday to him yesterday. Here is the mass of the subjugation SDS, as well as in the other picture older; neither one has a safety distance nor masks [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] We have here in Parliament, you see, all the masks. Why? And if you'll excuse me and not excuse me, I'd like to not be yelled at by representatives of the SDS when I have the floor. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u87	Dear fellows, my fellow Members, I ask for some silence so that the colleague may discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u88	That's really unacceptable. In short, that's all I'm going to say: I'm going to support the interpolation for all the violations that you, Sir Hoys, have committed at this time. You wanted more decisive action against the protestors, you wrote a number of sentences, but you don't have the same vats. And as Minister, you cannot work for a SDS client, but you must work for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But arrogance will not be replaced by determination and leadership, for what we can do is all from the arms affair forward, which has never experienced epilogues, even though there are three such thick books of research journalists, where everything is documented and even proven. Now we've reached the bottom of the bottom, my respectable colleagues. This country is no longer on any constitutional legal basis, for the first class can do just what they want. They lie, deceive, with all these staff clearances, pay raises to government officials, measures that trample on basic democratic standards, to prevent debate, exclusion of professions and the public, to reduce funds to NGOs, to suspend the right to referenda, to measures intended solely to strengthen authoritarianism, to fully exercise authority by allocation of budgetary resources, to ensure decisive influence in key institutions, to discredit the opposition and its work, and to strengthen repression, to over-restrict movement between municipalities, to strengthen police powers, to require the provision of police powers to the military, to purchase additional equipment for crowd control. In short, what else can I tell you about all of this — I haven’t listed it yet! Is it any wonder that anger, anger, may grow if there is a growing lack of confidence in this government? With all the disclosures in the purchases of protective equipment that could be even more extensive than the arms affair and the Patria affair together, they have, of course, called for protests. These people outside every Friday, now demonstrating 21st Friday, have more than a right to ask for answers. In short, we have a para-state in the hands of the elite, and I expect and hope that citizens will overlook and interpret, regardless of whether we have too few votes, respected colleagues and colleagues, serve at least to be able to tell the truth, to be aware that we can call and that we can call someone to knock on their conscience, or as Desus said, we will vote in our conscience. Ladies and gentlemen, I call upon all of you to vote in your conscience, but first of all, you must have a conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. Somehow I feel Mrs Tomic, with all due respect that this anger and this anger are mostly coming from you, I have not yet felt from anyone else. I'm really sorry you couldn't visit your mom like you said, but you obviously didn't even read the decision. Mother could be visited, there was an exception, that is, the care of the elderly, and so on during congregational restrictions. It's too bad you didn't read it. As far as these masks are concerned, I would also like to talk about what Mr Šarec said earlier. I think tomorrow, if I'm not mistaken, a new decree on masks will come into force. The current decree on masks speaks of the need to wear masks in closed spaces, just as we did, nor does what Sarec originally inspired. It is also possible not to wear to the extent that we can ensure an appropriate safety distance. This was also the case in the current decree. It's so nice to read some decrees and then accuse them later. As far as the union's concerned, I'd say so. I wouldn't have picked up, but I had to. Look, this union, we're talking, of course, under the nicknames, about the Struggle Union. Where Struggle belongs, you probably don't have to explain it in particular. This union called a press conference, where he accused me of forcing a union by not paying the Schengen supplement. It's an obvious and big lie. On Strukl's union, I can send you a link, the Police Union of Slovenia said: “We cannot possibly accept the argument that social work is not going on, we are cooperating properly with the Ministry. Our only goal is union requirements and no public policy accounting.” So the union – we are talking about the SPS, which, by the way, has more members than Struckle's union – has clearly stated in its reply that I have not blackmailed anyone and that even in the future, I can say publicly that I will not blackmail anyone. However, it is true that, according to my assessment, both unions, however we will discuss this in the coming days, as I wrote on Twitter, unfortunately with the former Prime Minister and the former Minister of the Interior, have signed a cow deal. They signed that the Government would order an independent analysis to determine whether the payment classes of police officers were appropriate compared to the other security authorities and that the Government would fully respect this independent analysis. And look at the fraction, this analysis, the ex-government, the former government, the ex-government order an independent analysis, no one interferes with it, and this analysis shows that the relationship between the police, the soldiers and the other security authorities is appropriate. I believe it's shouting and screaming, but look, the government respects what they signed. We can't do this! But if they signed a cat in a jacket, if that's what I call it, I don't think it's right for them to turn to me. And in the end, there's something else. The union that accuses me greatly is not only the Struckles, under the nicknames — as I said. Do you know who came to the congress of this union? This has not happened in the history of the union struggle – by the way, to repeat, the vice-president of this union has run on the list of SDs. And you know who, Mrs Tomić, came to the congress of this union and said who should be president – Mr Marjan Sarec. Can you imagine? The President of the Government is coming to the union congress of the Police Union of Slovenia! Unbelievable. It's amazing, but it's real.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, you know what's amazing, after how many - nine, ten, seven hours of debate we've been here, you haven't answered any of the questions we've been asking you. You're saying something, you're making up something that you attribute to someone's union, who's doing something, who's not, who's walking and who cares? [[…]] The public clearly requires answers and stop pretending to talk fairy tales here! We don't have time to talk to you here. Do this with Janez Janša, if you can, I'm sure you don't, because there you're quiet, there you just perform. Is the reason for the irrevocable derogation that you failed to prevent an investigation in the event of the acquisition of protective masks? First time. Second of all, Minister, no fairy tales, directly, are you a grandfather or not? Where did the Minister get the information on what matters are being completed in your guidelines and mandatory instructions? I've been asking you this for two months. Thirdly, a new fact, I'm not going to define myself, I don't know the situation, I'm reading today's media, you've come to own a plot. It is said that you have injured the MoK, this is the Municipality of Koper, for a million — I do not define myself. It is said — I don't know if that's possible — that you're not giving up and that you're in a position to prevent an investigation into these things? Three basic questions please, Minister. And don't tell me about Struggle, but about the snow from last year! We're here, we're talking about serious stuff and stop fooling around. You're talking fairy tales at the SDS picnic in Bovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u93	Dear colleagues, I suggest we calm the debate a little bit. We all understand each other, we listen, so there's no need for any tightening. My colleague Tina Hefferle has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Mr. Hojs, you had a theatrical historical introduction, stressing that your kinship had participated in World War II and so on. It doesn't rehabilitate your actions that burden you with interpretation. You are not even being washed by the eyewitnesses of Mr Matjaž German's attempt to discredit you personally, which you initially carried out. I can understand, however, that this is your first interpolation and that you may not have fully understood how and how all this procedure is going on, but, Mr Hojs, we are not on the basketball floor, where the attack is the best defense, but it is the content that could possibly wash you from all the readings of the interpolation. And I'm not too surprised that you don't have this content, Mr. Hoys, and I'm not too surprised that personal assault and discrediting is putting responsibility on other of your only weapons today. I have read in detail your response to the interpolation and I must admit that in some of the answers you have been extremely academic, if I may say so, or your services have quite summed up this theoretical work. You described, say, some legal framework of the police and your ministry and so on. However, on the other hand, in all this theory, you have not been able to deny the content of the interpretation. I am talking here mainly about your politicization of the police, your unjust and illegal interference with the work of the investigating authorities and so on. Today, in my opinion, we are in a somewhat absurd situation – because of your irrevocable resignation. I don't know any cases where there would be an interpretation against someone whose ministerial office has already expired. At this point, I must read Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the termination of the function of ministers, in order to make it easier for you to understand my position. It goes like this: “The office of Prime Minister and Ministers shall cease when after the elections a new National Assembly, as well as the function of ministers, has been suspended as Prime Minister and the discharge or resignation of the Minister”. Mr Hojs, if I am not mistaken – but not – on 30 June, you convened a press conference at which you informed the entire Slovenian public that you were irrevocably resigning from ministerial functions and that your irrevocable resignation was also accepted by the President of the Government. As far as I'm concerned, the concept of derogation is a very clear concept and does not even allow for any openness to any other broader interpretation. If you make a resignation statement, you'll step down. Also from a linguistic and literary point of view, this word is very clear. It means giving up a more important public function or service. This, Sir Hojs, was done by you on June 30th – you gave up your job. Today, in fact, these interpretations against you should not have at all, of course, if we were to live in a country where power respects state and constitutional regulation. Unfortunately, this is not the case with us as the ruling party, including your party to the SDS that you belong to, is what you politely yell at the constitutional order and all the other state institutions and postulates that apply in this country. So today you are still the full-fledged minister who has forgotten that he has given up irrevocably, and on the other hand, citizens have a government president who can't even open envelopes and thus make a fool out of people, from the constitutional, political and legal standards that apply in this country. In view of all of this, Mr Hojs, even if you were able to at least get some sort of interference from the interpretation, you no longer have the credibility that the Minister needs in order to be able to carry out your job. And let me refresh your memory and quote you from your press release where you said, quote, "I appreciate that powers do not allow me direct influence or direct interference with the work of the NPU or anyone in the police, but I do believe that what is happening today is actually politically motivated work to be political procedures." Then you resigned irrevocably. We all remember what allegedly political procedures you spoke about in your statement. It was a house investigation against Minister Restovalsk in connection with the contested operations of the protective equipment. After all this long introduction, of course, it's more than obvious that you're a retired minister. But what matters most is that you resigned because you were unable to directly influence the police and the NPU – you said so yourself. This influence has been hidden since the very beginning of your ministry, or not a very hidden agenda. And that fact alone is a reason enough that today's interpretation against you should succeed. And if I remind you of another statement you made at this same press conference. You said that the police were politicized and that in connection with the prosecution and the judiciary there was a judicial and judicial structure. Dear Mr. Hoys, these are serious accusations you have made as Minister without any actual evidence. That, Mr Hoys, is what police politicisation really is. You're the one who's been trying to bring the police in one way or another to their client interests all this time. And the fact that the house investigation with Minister Restoration has thrown you off track so much that you have permanently resigned is just proof of how and how you imagine the management of the Ministry of the Interior. If you do not have sufficient and direct influence on the work of the police and on the NPU, you are no longer going to this service. Your actions have also been responded to by, among other things, the Association of Criminalists of Slovenia, where they have said and quoted their statement, “in the Association of Criminalists of Slovenia, we have been following statements and attacks by certain politicians against the police for a long time, especially the criminal police and certain criminals. The attacks, insults and accusations have given rise to a special dimension in the statements of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs in stating the reasons for his resignation.” End of quote. However, if I continue, they have said the following, which is very important and in my opinion it will be clear to many citizens from the plane. I quote, "all these accusations are probably the result of the Minister's uncontrolled anger over the conduct of the house investigation related to the investigation of financial flows in the purchase of protective equipment." I think that there is any further debate or explanation here, but let me say, if you don't know that individual investigative actions, including house investigations, are by no means determined or directed by the Minister of the Interior, which falls within the jurisdiction of the court which, on the proposal of the Prosecutor, orders a house investigation. This indignation, Mr Hojs, which you expressed when you gave up on those press releases and the moaning that you do not have any legal powers to influence and control the police and the prosecution is graciously said to be distasteful and extremely unacceptable to a minister. That is also why I welcome this irrevocable resignation of yours, and that is why we should today, although, as I have already said, we are in a somewhat absurd situation, today we should also support your interpretation by some coalition Members, and here I am thinking mainly of Members of the SMC and Desus. In short, Mr Hojs, what you have done and are still doing, that is to say, influencing and directing investigative actions and political pressure on police officers, is certainly not within the purview of the Minister of the Interior. This is actually the politicisation of the police and the National Investigation Office. And if, to conclude, I recall once again Article 115 of the Constitution, which speaks of the resignation of ministers, the Minister's office will cease with his resignation. Therefore, Mr Hojs, from the moment you made your irrevocable resignation, you are no longer a minister to me, you are only a doer of duty, and in fact, today we have an interpolation, an earpiece to our democracy. And the fact that the Prime Minister does not open the envelope with your resignation and the fact that the President of the Government has conditioned that the National Assembly will inform you of your resignation when it finds a new candidate for minister. Well, this is a serious violation of our state order, which is enshrined in the constitution. The President of the Government, in no legal order — not in the constitution, not in law, nor in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly — has the authority or authority to wait for the postponement or condition of the notification he is obliged to send to the National Assembly. By doing so, you really point to your attitude toward democracy that you want to undermine in this country. With your manoeuvres, this takes place from day to day – break democracy. And no, Mr. Hoys, you are certainly no longer the minister that this country would deserve, so I will certainly support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u95	Thank you very much. A colleague of Jura Ferryan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u96	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Secretary, honourable Members, distinguished Members, other guests! Well, hello to everyone who's following us. But before I get involved with what I want to share with you today, it's only two things before that. The first is – well, a lot of people will probably mark me as naive, but I do believe that a fellow Member, Mrs Tomić, has not checked the facts and if I had checked that, I would not have said that. Therefore, I will only explain that this photograph, which was shown by a fellow Member a few minutes ago or a few 10 minutes ago, took place on the 30th anniversary of the Slovenian Democratic Youth, which took place on 16 November, 16 November 2019. So much for an explanation. Then there's the next thing before I specifically get into my discussion, but it's about wearing a mask. In these seven good hours, we've heard quite a bit of snooze about wearing masks. It's kind of paradoxical when some people talk about masks. First, clear these matters with your fellow Members and colleagues. We have heard a few words earlier from the former Prime Minister, and we know who has the biggest problems with wearing a mask in the temple of democracy. So much for a start, and now maybe just this, well, when we're talking masks. We wear masks primarily to protect ourselves and others, not in the first place because the government said so or because NIJZ recommended it. Since the NIJ recommended this, we consider that the profession knows what it is doing. Now I will start or continue my implementation with what I want to share with you today. If it has not been clear to date, it is now after seven and a half hours of discussion of the speech in this temple of democracy that it is not really about whether the Thompson concert in Slovenia should or should not happen, but it is simply about the opposition or those who are signed under this interpretation that you simply want Minister Hojs to go and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to fall. But, you know, that's your problem. I am deeply convinced that this is not a problem of the large, large majority of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. For we have a government that works, we have a government that does good. So in my debate, I will point out something that is evident through today's interpolation, and that is a distinct duality, double criteria, double criteria. For today what is happening here is a kind of very clear, visual, illustrative example. Therefore, with a few concrete examples that show up in parallel to this event that we witnessed weeks ago or now, around the Thompson concert in Slovenia, we did not witness it months ago, years ago in Slovenia, when it happened to us, say Cece and Leprepre Brena, Baja Little Kninje, Fish Chops and so on. At the time, there was no problem for those who wrote, signed and filed this interpretation, not for some Slovenian media, such as RTV Slovenia, national public media, as well as Pop TV and so on. And we're going pretty good in a row. Ceca. Some of you probably listen to her music, but I'm sure you've all heard of her. This is the so-called Serbian popular music queen. And her career rise began with her relationship with Arkan. Who's Arkan? Arkan was the commander of paramilitary units accused of war crimes in the area of our former Yugoslav common state. And national public RTV Slovenia has no reservations to report on Ceca. Quite the opposite, isn't she being reported on by superlatives? Look, I Googled a little while I was preparing for today's debate – nothing to be afraid of, I won't read the articles for how long it would take May 21, 2005 – Ceca impressed Ljubljana. [[…]] March 15, 2007 – I am too old for naked photos; there is talk about Ceca. 22 February 2012 – Ceca from house arrest to Ljubljana. And also this year's article, June 3, 2020 – Ceca became a midwife. The descriptions in these articles, I read them, are very much in superlatives. I will only allow myself to use a few words or words to make it easier for you to imagine in what context the Slovenian national media writes about a singer who clearly sympathizes with or sympathizes with the readers: a true professional, the queen of popular music, the queen of turbofolk, enthusiastic with voice and character. I won't let go of what kind of queen she is if she's queen, and not how impressed she is with her voice and character, but the words, the words, the words, the very visual indicator of what kind of approach public national television is writing about this song. But I have to be honest to say that I don't listen to her music and, as a result, I don't know her lyrics. But I Googled, and I've read a few texts, and here I also have to be corrected that these texts that I've read, and from what I understand, they're not in themselves controversial, and I have to be completely correct in this. But I can't say that about her way of life. Look, last time she was in house arrest for eight months for tax evasion. I'm not talking about her getting married to Arkan. It's her personal decision. But there's another big problem. Look at this picture. I'm sure you've seen her before. This is a photograph from a 1991 broken Croatian Vukovar. Here Ceca is performing with a kalashnik in his hand, and there are two captains in the Chetnik uniform next to her. This photograph, ladies and gentlemen, is controversial for me. That's controversial. I'd say what it takes. However, for national public RTV Slovenia is never a problem when it comes to talking about Ceca. Even more, in 2005, March 13th, she was on the show Back home led by Mario Galunič, the guest, and in the most viewed time, in the prime team, she could say. And just so there's no mistake, I have nothing against Cece. You know, I also have absolutely no objection to Mr Matjaž German being photographed with Ceco by his fellow Members. We've seen this picture before today. I don't mind, look! But I really don't mind that we're going here now with double criteria and double criteria of duplicity. Thompson is a problem, and Ceca, who was clearly sympathetic to the captains, is no problem. There's one more thing I'd like to say here. Earlier, a fellow Member, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Tina Hefferle, had said that Minister Hojs had discredited Mr German in his introduction. Yeah, wait, who took the photo with Ceca? Did Minister Hoys take a picture or Mr. German? And I'm sure Mr. German probably took a picture of this singer for some reason, not when someone told him, but now you have to take a picture. He published this photo himself! I can't imagine why I would take a picture with a musician or a musician if I didn't like it. I can't imagine that. Think so little before you say it. You don't have to be dramatic too much. Let's move on. Beautiful Brena, also the star of Serbian turbofolk music, in Slovenian media space is always a place for her. There is always room for her, including RTV Slovenia, the national public media, I know that I have already said this several times, and I will write about her several times in superlatives. Even at MMC was the award game when she had a concert in Slovenia: Coming Beauty Brena, you want to go to concert [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u97	A little silence, colleagues and colleagues, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u99	Let's hear about Pretty Brenna. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u100	That's it. This was March 2014, as I will then say later, and I think we all understand why I am actually saying this. The MMC then awarded two cards twice in March 2014. On 16 March 2009, there were also guests in the MMC online chat room. Look, this is Mrs. Pretty Brena, who you can see here in the Army uniform of the Republic of Serbia during the Balkan War. Baja Mali Kninjja, also a sympathizer of chatniks or according to the words of POP TV or 24ur.com, is the legendary Bajam Mali Kninjja. Then there is the praise in this article, and I will not quote it, because this word “legendar” already says a lot. However, this is Article 11. 11. 2011 The legend of Serbian folk music at the promotion of the latest album. One of you laughed earlier when I said "Turbofolk Queen." I didn't label it, but when I read a few articles about it, it was three quarters of the time, and I decided to use it today. So little to explain. This Baja Mali Kninja has a ban on performing in Croatia and after some non-Serbian parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least that is what some media have written, but this person has often performed in Slovenia, and there was no problem. At least I don't remember any of you signing this interpretation to have anything to say: neither public RTV Slovenia nor POP TV and so on. On the contrary. The fourth person I will expose is Bora Đorđević, and this is the singer of the Serbian group Ryblja čorba. He is known for his use of the term or for his marking of the Slovenian people or Slovenians and Slovenes, saying that we are Danish servants or Vienna charioteers. Nevertheless, let's say Tanja Gobzek – also on national public RTV Slovenia – identifies him as someone who can't cross it. Interesting, isn't it? By the way, according to some media reports, this man is now supposed to live in Ljubljana, and is married to Slovenia, as well as the one I spoke about earlier, in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina he obviously does not hope to perform because Croatia and Bosniaks did not forget how he performed in Banja Luka in the middle of the war with a Chetnik cockard on top of a hat. He also performed several times in Slovenia with his group Fishing Chorus. And I guess I could count it, but there are still some cases like this, and I think the four of them are good enough for you. Besides, I believe that the last time I discussed this, I said that some people find it really hard to listen to such things. It's just, you know, sometimes it's hard for me to listen to you, too, and I listen to you because we're in democracy. Even in these four cases, it is very illustrative that none of the signatories of the interpretation you have to say so much at the Thompson concert, which was not and will not be, but there were no problems at Cece concerts, at the Fine Brena concerts, at the Fish Chop concerts and so on. Yeah, if these aren't double criteria, then I don't know what double criteria are! On this occasion, I'd like to say something else. Look, the uprising is an act of rejection. The same applies to captains and the same applies to totalitarian criminal regimes. So, for all the change; Nazism, fascism, and also communism. All criminal regimes must be condemned in the same way, all must be condemned in the same manner. Who has a problem in this House, and you know it. I'm sorry. On the basis of what I have said, I would now, in this concluding part of my debate, be referring in essence to a formal reason why the interpretation against the Interior Minister should move. This is an eyewitness to Minister Hoys that he did not interfere with the administrative procedure. It is true that I do not have as much parliamentary experience as many of you who are sitting in this Chamber, but interpretation is usually written down and filed if the Minister violates the law. Minister Hoys would have broken the law if he'd intervened or interfered with this procedure. He didn't. Why? Because he respected the decision or decision of the competent court. Simple, isn't it? If you want to understand, it's simple, otherwise it's not. You know, that's very two-faced. Look, here's this picture that's really going to be in your eyes. Look. It's no problem, but Mr. German and I don't agree on a lot of things, but not to be misunderstood, I really don't mind you taking pictures with Mrs. Ceco, I really don't mind. But it's two-faced that you're saying something, but you're doing something completely different. Have the same vat for everyone. You know, it may be hard to say it more clearly or in plastic terms, but I'm gonna try one of these. Look, this is about the same as it was years ago, when, say, Madonna, Mariah Carey and Beyoncé sang for fabulous sums, for millions of sums of various sheiks, and for Gaddafi while he was still alive, while they were talking about human rights and freedoms. Yeah, it's not going together! And that's not how it works. But as for the concert or Thompson or anyone else, I think one such very simple solution is. If people didn't go to Cece concerts, Ceca wouldn't have concerts. If people didn't go to beautiful brena concerts, pretty brena wouldn't have concerts. And yes, if people didn't go to Thompson concerts, Thompson wouldn't have concerts. And vice versa; if people walk, then concerts usually are. Also, the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor said that it was dangerous to intervene in this area and that politics should not – I will not quote him clearly now because I do not have that text in front of me – that politics should not interfere in this matter and that matters should be in accordance with the law. Here I would point out that if those of you who have signed this interpolation want to ban and put an end to things, then have the same vats for everyone. Then, if anything is at stake, there is also likely to be another issue. But I would like to point out that this is a very dangerous path by which the current opposition, or part of the opposition, seems to want to let us go, but you know. Because soon a book may seem controversial to someone, but it seems to be disputed; but what kind of an article is banned — boom, and we are in North Korea! That's not what we want. I don't know if you've lost your compass when you're not in the government anymore, but now it's really necessary at all costs just to get in power. Let's have a little bit of common sense here, please. Then it's you who's been talking about the rule of law for the past few months, about the rule of law, about the rule of law, about how to respect it, of course, which is true, and now you're talking because Minister Hojs respected the law and you're interpreting it. What the fuck are you guys doing? And if I wanted to believe you, I can't believe you! Maybe it doesn't even matter what I think. Because citizens and citizens are watching this meeting, they are also monitoring the situation in the media, the media space is being kind of pluralised, and I think that everyone is capable of hearing different opinions when he hears more opinions, so, finally, we are also in parliamentary democracy to create our own opinion. That's absolutely right. That's what I'd say. On the one hand, you're reading to Minister Hoys because he didn't get involved, and on the other hand, you're upset that he ordered an investigation into the NPU. And it's not Minister Hoys who's investigating it, it's the one who's responsible. What bothers you that the Minister is working? Perhaps you are not used to it, but ministers in the Janševa government, who are now the third Janša government, are working – ministers and ministers. I will not support interpellations against the Minister of the Interior because Minister Hojs did not violate the law, but respected the decision of the competent court or its decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it is imperative that this national assembly take a closer look at this debate by Mr Ferjan. In fact, we're opening up some new horizons, most likely talking about music, music. I don't know what this has to do with Mr. Hoys, but I will answer him immediately. As far as I understand, today's SDS party is the largest photo of Cece, which Mr Ferrjan has just interpelled and the representative of the proposaler Matjaž Germany. This is an extremely terrible fact in the eyes of the SDS party, but let me tell you another, even more terrible fact. From the same year, three months earlier, I have a photograph so beautiful with Ursko Báčovnik that we would most likely be surprised how happy we were in this photograph. Better than Ceca. By the way, respectable, let's be serious! On the one hand, Mr Ferrjan mentioned, whatever their past was, musicians from the area of the former Yugoslavia. Most likely, each of us has his own stories, and we Slovenians know that. Whatever. What is important and important difference in these authors is who spreads this idea and who survived this idea. That's the key. While these authors, as you speak, were speaking the same language as Mr. Thompson, they were not allowed to enter any other country. They could only perform in the Republic of Serbia and Serbia. The ones you mentioned. With all due respect. I noticed that Mrs. Eva Irgle left when you talked about it. Maybe because you forgot about this photo, I didn't want to go down that low, but I need to speak at this low level so we can understand each other. Do you know who this is? That's one of the four you mentioned. This is Bora Djordjevic with three fingers and a cigarette in her mouth. I took this picture with Mrs Ceco, and with many others, with the exception of Janez Janša, I took pictures with many of them, by the way. And you're giving as a counterweight to the desire that instead of a state prosecutor, the Minister of Police directs the police to resign irrevocably and is still insolvent, sitting here setting up a fence for his own people to preempt legitimacy – and of course illegal – to believe more in the accused of organised crime than in the police, and you're reading me a photo with Ceco! Well, you're normal, aren't you? But this is the main argument of the all-powerful SDS party in the interpretation of Minister Hojs, who for the first time in the history of Slovenia acts as an unrescinded minister!? Speaking of ideology, what is this? It is a photo with a mouthpiece, it is not a song, it is a photo with a mouth – or with a mouth if you want. And this is your party president, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I didn't want to go down that low. I wonder if Siol will write about it because he writes about Ceca, including Siol interpelling Ceco, I apologize. Dear Mr Ferrjan, I seriously do not know whether we have missed the committee or the interpretation today, but we are actually talking about someone whom you obviously tolerate, to quote, what he is saying, but to get from Cece or from anyone else the same text. I'm going to read you one sentence right now, and then let me know if that's cool with you going to a concert like this. For a home ready – respectable, it's cool! Of course, there are no security threats, of course not. There was a slaughterhouse in Capljina, full of Serbs carrying Neretva. Oh Neretva, run sideways, take the Serbs to the blue Adriatic. That's cool for you. Bravo SDS and all partners!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u103	Replica, Comrade Ferryan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Mr. German, obviously we didn't get along well because I didn't read you a photo with Ceco, and I told you twice, but I did. I've read your duplicity! But I have to say again that as I said, Cece, I don't listen, but I Googled; I don't listen to Thompson, and I don't listen to Pretty Bren, and I don't listen to those two gentlemen that I wrote. Look, I didn't go into this content of the texts either, I just got into this duality. Look, because if Thompson's in trouble, then there's a lot of other issues. It's a duplicity, but you know, duality. And because of me, look, you take pictures of whoever you want, because you're taking pictures with, because not me, I'm taking pictures with the one or the one I want with. I really don't see a problem here. But if you're embarrassed now that you've just taken pictures, that's your problem, but I don't think you do. There's no problem here, I'm just talking about duality. Now you can say what you want, but because people have been listening to us for eight hours now, they'll be able to assess whether they think they're two-faced or not. One of them will say that it is, but one of them isn't, will they? We're in democracy, and let each of us make up our own minds. For me, it's a duplicity. I believe for a lot of people, but not for a lot of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u105	Thank you. The speaker shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u106	Just one short question, because I think this debate is completely irrelevant. Here's Minister Hoys, and we're waiting for his answers. You probably wouldn't mind if I took a picture with Ursko Báčovnik. That's not two-faced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u107	Thank you. Now I must also suggest that we stick to today's subject. Comrade Alexander Reberšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I guess I'm wondering, like everyone else, what is the point of today's 17-hour non-productive debate on the interpretation of Minister Hojs. Tell me, distinguished opposition, what the people have, what the Slovenian people have from this interpretation. Tell me. I'm sure this interpolation doesn't solve anything, but it shows one thing, and this is your fight for power. It saddens me that the themes shared by the Slovenian people are being reopened over and over again. The ancient Roman proverb says, works and rule, so we are deliberately looking for topics that separate us and divide us. That's why you're going back to 1942 and causing artificial division. You're doing all this on purpose. Interpellation against the interior minister essentially saves nothing, but it brings even greater political tension and division. That's also your goal. So it's another opposition pay-per-view bomb. I believe that today they would be much more constructive and operational if, for example, they were looking for the culprits for the billions of taxpayers' money seized, for overpaid medical equipment, as well as a bank hole, an Iranian billion laundered money and for those responsible for the TES 6 project. Or it is possible to interpret the opposition's manoeuvres, not to talk about these things and not to talk about the good work of this government and the functioning of our ministers in crisis situations. Here I cannot pass the fact that I do not commend our Jernej Vrtovec for everything he has done good in the infrastructure field. He relaunched the Emonica project, our pensioners have free tickets, electronic vignettes arrive, and during covida-19 there was cheaper electricity. Such interpretations also do not report the work of our ministers, their good works. Say, Matthew Tonin. Today there have been so many speeches about some dignity, and where was the dignity of the soldiers, say, so far? Our Secretary of Defense, Matthew Tonin, saves the status of soldiers after 45 years. And with such actions, once again, as they are today, you are also blurring the work of our Minister, John Cigler King. Anti-Korona measures that have saved 250,000 jobs are key. We helped many self-employed people, the economy, pensioners, we also helped students – measures that actually helped the Slovenian people! This interpolation isn't helping anyone, it's just your fight for power. And the predicted 17 hours of mutual accusation, from which our citizens will have nothing, is the able manoeuvre of the left opposition to cover the ambitious plans of this government and our minister, Janez Cigler King, to build five new homes for the elders. Today, some would like to discuss the alleged objective responsibility of the Minister of the Interior in relation to a concert that was not at all, while there has never been a debate and also a determination of the responsibility of the previous government for 74 million taxpayers' money for unnecessary long-term care studies. I don't remember when we spent 17 hours trying to figure things out. I also wanted to say that we have 17 hours of non-productive debate today. I am convinced that in Slovenia we have much more important topics than Thompson's concert and that we should deal with anything else in this country than that we have 17 hours of empty straw here. Social Democrats are as successful with this interpolation as they have been in protecting the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u110	I have to take this. It's really pathetic, but still. Your Honor, if we don't understand what we're talking about and who we're talking about, it's not just Thompson, it's Thompson. But if you're cool with illegal insights into classified information – this is what Mr. Joseph Horvat was embarrassed about months ago – that the minister believed the accused of organised crime more than the police. If that is all right with you, if New Slovenia, even before such matters, is moved, from a man who has more measured you than us – Mr. Hojs has never allowed himself such a language, referring to us as to New Slovenia, and you know it. But it is — what is it? The coalition contract is considered to want to submit to the SDS police. It's not yours. One day, this police force will act against you if it's in the hands of the SDS party. And instead of the state's attorney, he directs the police work, which is absolutely controversial. This was proved by experts who wrote the law and those who explain it. So, the National Assembly and we. So, New Slovenia, I'm sorry, at least put these comments together for the person who is worthy of these comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Replica colleague Reberšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear German colleague, if you want to become wise, learn to ask wisely, listen carefully, answer calmly, and be quiet when you have nothing else to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u113	Thank you very much. There's a colleague of mine who's got the word. Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First, I would say that today is such a very instructive day when we hear about music from the former Yugoslavia, and we teach each other how to act and talk. Above all, I must admit that, in listening to today's debate and to the views of certain individuals by coalition parties, it seems in essence that some people are not familiar with the mere content of the interpretation, because, given their views and interpretations, it appears that there is an interpretation on the side of the party of the Social Democrats, or against the colleague of Matjaž Germany, because we have been hoping to require a determination of the political responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs. As a matter of fact, there have been attacks by ad-persons against the Social Democrats, against Mr German, against anyone who, in today's situation, is even hoping to challenge the arbitrary and questionable actions of the current authorities, all with the aim of attacking as the best way of defence, all with the aim of discrediting the individual and taking credibility. I've already seen it. It's already felt. But such attacks and discredits cannot really hide the truth. And the truth is that in recent months, the distinguished Minister has exceeded his powers and left his duty in certain cases where he has not initiated a nullity procedure for certain decisions issued, as he was told in the interpretation. [[Incomprehensible]] The fact is that the Minister's instructions to the police were illegal and illegal and that in any normal country in such cases the Minister would still take responsibility. That we have witnessed in June's anti-government protests in Ljubljana images, images and testimony of individuals that have not been used in our country so far. We have heard the confessions of individuals who happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time or who accidentally believed that they had the constitutional rights to be guaranteed by democratically elected authorities. For example, the constitutional right to freedom of assembly, the right to personal freedom and so on. But it wasn't like that. For example, she confessed that she was walking along Trubar Street and then surrounded by a small group of police officers and conducted a process of legitimacy. Why? Because of the suspicion of a future crime service. If it weren't true, one would think that we might be watching a repeat of a science fiction film. Individuals may know the Minority Report — a very similar situation. For this lady, with no action or external sign, has shown that she will attend the protests at all. It was enough to walk down the street, which could also lead to the scene of the protests. And the similar identities of the protestors and the no-thought-seeing passersby were, unfortunately, enormous. Of course, since then, it has been clear to a number of lawyers that there has been no legal basis for police conduct in many cases, which is not really clear at present, under what criteria the police have chosen the protestors they have legitimized and whether they have properly exercised their powers in doing so. They also confirmed the findings of the Ombudsman, who, on his own initiative, carried out a review of the police procedures for identifying the identity at the protest in Ljubljana on 19 June in terms of the protection of human rights. It is very interesting in this report to essentially take the response of the competent authority to the Ombudsman's question of what led the police to determine the existence of legal conditions for carrying out the identification procedure. The Ministry thus informed the Ombudsman that the procedures for identifying the measures had been carried out, in particular, with a proactive preventive purpose for police operations, as persons with their conduct in the direction of the site of the protest meeting or the detention at a particular place at the site of the protest meeting and at a specified time immediately before or during the protest meeting had raised suspicion that they would commit a crime or offence. This answer in itself says that it was the excessive arbitration of the police, that it was a violation of police powers. For in this case, police officers should nevertheless demonstrate that there was a suspicion of legitimacy that was concrete with any external concrete factor, objective factors that could even justify further proceedings under the fourth indent of Article 40(1) of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. Although this case is the lowest evidence standard, it is also necessary to base and specify suspicions in accordance with constitutional case law. Most precisely in cases of human rights infringements due to so-called preventive or pro-active purposes, because in such cases it is so necessary to respect the fundamental procedural safeguards that would prevent the abuse of the powers of repressive authorities, and unfortunately the police failed to do so that day. They followed the Minister’s mandatory instructions, which he had previously announced on Twitter, and sanctioned and persecuted individuals who dared to exercise their right to peaceful assembly, association. Or they were just passersby and they were in the wrong place at the wrong time. Thus, 69 people were unlawfully legitimate, and proceedings against 27 were instituted. It was certainly an unjustifiable intervention into personal dignity and freedom, an intervention in constitutionally guaranteed rights, which are by no means self-evident and for which it is obviously more necessary today than ever before to fight. Unlawful and unjustified procedures of legitimacy, police repression against their own citizens and citizens show serious elements of authoritarianism. This is no longer a matter of symbolism, it is a question of whether, as citizens and citizens, we can even allow ourselves to be kidnapped by the country in spite of clear and constitutional and legal norms before our eyes and in broad daylight. Irrevocable until withdrawal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u116	I'd like to replicate my colleague Rebecca. He talked about how the left opposition misused procedures to needlessly discuss 17 hours. Remember, for him, the National Assembly for several hours discussed the procedures for placing the third development axis in the space, after his minister himself confirmed in the National Assembly that he had submitted non-existent data when lobbying for a non-existent route, i.e. for an undefined route, and when I invited him to present the list of land with the name list of owners, he did not show this today. As regards free transport for pensioners, Mrs Alenka Bratušek and her government are responsible for this. As for the issue of cards, however, it is a shame that the Minister of Infrastructure, the current minister, does not provide existing cards for pensioners in real time. Some pensioners are waiting two months for these cards today. When we speak of withdrawing policy from the economy, we really do this and not putting political officials into corporate administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I mean, Mr. Reich, it wasn't a real replica, but [[…]] He's got the word Gregor Periè, and he's getting ready to go get his hands on Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm a good-bye again! I don't know where I am right now. I think it's like at some beauty contest or at some competition who made a nicer selfie. And it's not exactly, I mean, space or time to deal with these things, because we have much bigger problems than what we're actually talking about in these hours. I expected this interpretation to be prepared more qualitatively by the proposer, especially given when it was put in. It's been a while, and in the meantime, we could, I don't know, prepare another bunch of things. [[advertising from the hall]] So, I see June 9, 2020. [[…]] Please, if you'll allow me to discuss it, because I didn't interfere with your discussions. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u119	Go ahead, Mr. Perich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u120	Well, you always bother me, Mr. Han, please, come on. Allow [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u121	Please, Mr. Han, don't disturb the speaker during the speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u122	Excuse me. Excuse me, Mr. Ha. Thank you. Thank you very much. I stayed with June 9th, and I expected that at that time the applicant would also prepare some other things, and at that time we only heard things that we have actually read in the media and everything is so small. We in the SMC, as we presented in the position, focused on what was written in the interpretation itself. I think it would be pointless for us to repeat everything we've heard today. So, these eyewitnesses, especially the ones that were most flying into control, are, after what we've examined ourselves, so they can't hold. If I focus on one example, for example, Iran's billions, i.e. the laundering of that Iranian billion, even at the time when the government was led by the SMC and when the Minister of the Interior had control of these matters, the matter was still ongoing, so the prosecution was still in the process, and there was no drama, not in the media, not within the coalition, not within the opposition, no evidence of police politicisation or any other body. Clearly, something has changed during this time, and now we are talking in a way or during interpolation only as if it were a problem. It creates the impression that there is no one who is able to oversee the police, and this is a mistake because there are already mechanisms within the law that enable police to exercise control. We have also seen that when the stage of a procedure is a little more mature, where the prosecution is already involved, even then it is possible, in some appropriate way, because it has already been carried out in the past, there is also an appropriate legal basis. I think we're working some kind of storm in a glass of water here, but the fact is, if you hit an area where it interferes with someone, then the action is followed by a reaction. I think there's a response here, or what we're doing here today, part of this reaction. I'm more concerned about something else, about what we've been Slovenians and Slovenians have witnessed in the last period. This is mainly because some people, even by the example or impression of what they see on social networks, and on social networks, what is happening in the United States, when some anarchist movements are very clear about the fact that neither the military nor the police want them. Otherwise, I can't explain that it's so negative and so disrespectful that for my notions of a developed and mature country, what we're trying to be, it's not meant to be. I have not heard the sentences here, but I would like to hear them from all, but it is as if they were overlooked or tolerated — perhaps, I don’t know, I guess — because it is so embarrassing that we can’t imagine it at all. And that's what some people do, who are also very easy to find on the front pages, and we're talking about Slovenians and Slovenians, we're talking about artists, we're talking about those who think of themselves as some intellectuals, we're talking about an avant-garde, and on the other hand, they're getting into institutions that actually provide order and peace in the country and also our security. If that's the case, I think everyone on their own can appreciate that they're not. I would also like to say that the protests that are taking place have also lost a significant part of some legitimacy because they have lost that moment to be driven by some progress, but it is only some sort of rover. At least that's how it turned out. I also hope and believe that there are also a lot of people among the protesters who want positive changes, and right, they have the right to protest, but it is still necessary to do this in some way not to break, but to build. When I look a little bit around our political scene, I think, because we have in SMC and Desus, when you've exposed us so many times or every time, you don't lose one chance to expose us, we have experience of cooperation in the left-centre government and we have experience of cooperation in the right-centre government. I would suggest and recommend to everyone that it gathers a number of different experiences, because it will also have different views, and in this regard it will also become politically mature. Of course, everyone will then try to draw water on their mill and look for such and other arguments, why this is not good, why it should not actually be done in Slovenia. Any mature democracy in Europe can do this, or customers, but not yet in Slovenia, but I believe that this path is possible when we get there. What am I worried about? I am concerned that in the present opposition is the only bond that holds you together, John Janša, and you keep saying this over and over again. I think that in Slovenia there are a number of other challenges and problems that we can solve together, but not just by mentioning just one and the same phrase, just the same name and this is your political programme. I cannot agree with that, and I will not agree with that. Today we have been talking about this in some way all day – about Janez Janša and ideology, about some things that have not happened, and about some problems, about some divisions, about some painful historical experiences that are not even part of Slovenia and our political or historical space, and we import them from the south. We don't need all this, let the troubles be solved by those who have created them, let's deal with our own! Another thing that seemed important to me today. Today is the International Day of Pay Equality. Although Slovenia is very egalitarian in this respect, women still fall 8.7% behind men. I think these are the real challenges we have to face. As I have already mentioned, we need to find solutions for a number of espions, and I could list by tomorrow morning what is all that we have to do. That is why, for my assessment, today's debate is a waste of time and a waste of time we've thrown away. To conclude, I would like to say that I will not support Minister Hojs' interpretation. Thank you very much for your attention and for being able to follow me without noise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Proposer Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I hope that this will not prevail between the politicians, between Members of Parliament and Members, that there is something we are doing without connection. Because if you don't, I advise you not to deal with politics anymore. We are talking about specific issues, concrete indications that need to be discussed. You know what the saddest part is? Even though you prove it in writing, you write, you draw, you sing, you still think Minister Hoys is right to do what he does. This is the worst thing. Today we can Parliament here, at the end of which 46 votes are still needed, a lot of morals, responsibilities and a sense of the country for us to get them – but you are vehemently saying that it is not necessary. One thing I'd like to share with the general public. I think it's important. Mr. Perič mentioned Irangate. Irangate is actually an affair that touches the money laundering that we are members of Knovs at the time – I think it was 2015, mag. Branko Grims will know more because he led the Commission to oversee intelligence and security services – to receive a document from the commission investigating the bank hole that something was going on in this regard. Now I will only draw you where the key mistakes of us, as politicians and Slovenians as societies, are, when we are pursuing such important affairs and finding solutions for them. As then Members, when we talked about how we are going to deal with this, we were all united. We all knew who the nut was and who it was, who it was, who it was, who it was, who it was, who it wasn't. We searched and worked together. Do you know where the problem came from? When political opportunism began. Mr. Janez Janša, I am sorry that I have to quote him and he cannot defend himself, understood that this story will be and is great if he can blame anyone. And he blamed the left political sphere and, of course, the deep state. Why? Because if not, there's no political capital. What does crime do to a politician if he cannot make political capital out of crime? And this is a typical Slovenian story of how one affair, if solved as a politician – would benefit us all as a society, but politics is so stupid, I apologize for the expression to take advantage of this opportunity to smear the enemy. This was happening in Irangate. Today, if you look at the Janševa or SDS media, they attribute the story to the left without looking for a solution. This seemed important to me, especially because we are talking about specific responsibilities. If we, as politicians, were not to find fault with our opponents, with our political opponents, we might be able to solve some problem and get to the bottom of it. And so it immediately becomes a left thing and a right thing and we never get to the bottom of things.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word Primoz Siter has to prepare himself for the Mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Today’s interpretation is essentially broader than the question of a concert. Here I think we are all united, not really interpelling Aleš Hojs, but interpelling a much broader policy of the government of Janez Janša, which is, I quote the poet Andrej Rozman, I have just caught this quote, “in the name of patriotism, they are destroying national identity, because the ruling party is in cultural war with most of Slovenia and is insulting to everything that smells like democratic, social and urban.” That's Andrej Roseman Rosa and the end of the quote. With a policy that is so totalitarian in its core that it is already ridiculous, not one of its leading ministers will let him make one autonomous decision, which was the irrevocable resignation of Minister Hojs at the start. You can't even stop! But now, to this day's wide darkness, I'm glad that your colleagues have opened up Yugoslav music to me. At the start, I wanted to quote something that comes from the title of the band TBF from Split, which is traditionally socially critical and which is said in a song that says about the end of the world: “But in the choir the same debilitism, whose old was Ustasha, but whose Partizan.” This whole debate, not just today's but a 30-year debate and a ping-pong between the centre and right in Slovenia, is no different than this. To be honest, all of this has been done in the history of the mill, with a broken nation, it is easier to manage. If a broken nation is focused on some stories from the 1980s, they will not be interested in housing policy, they will not be interested in social, public health, nursing homes and so on. The art of politics is to preserve this eternal status quo, look for some enemies and go this pingpong inside of it. Although we are talking about Ustasha today, the historical facts are clear. We know: the Ustasha movements, the domestic movements, the Chetnik movements and other related movements, have collaborated with the Nazis and the fascists and have drawn inspiration from there. But let's move on, come on! Because the problem we have today is not fascism and Nazism from 1941 or from the 1930 ’ s and 40 ’ s. The problem that we have today on the table is fascism and the elements of fascism that are emerging in 2020. Fascism, which may be called a little different today, is dressed a little differently, says a little differently, but basically does the same thing. And oh, how painful it is to monitor the current government and see the elements of this discarding part of history today. Infringement of human rights, however, the exploitation of the situation, the use of power to subdue the entire repressive apparatus in all key functions: police, military, Sova, ODS, the Statistical Office and so on; the low treatment of people of other nationalities, we do not need to tell again what is going on in Postojna at the moment, for example. Containers, food through bars, dog control and so on. And sexism in communication, different Erika, Tanja and Violeta, which could be addressed in a different and more respectful way. And the taking of power with capital, and half free, we hear pitches at sea and so on. Let's not talk about the legitimacy and arrest of political opponents in protest. Even if they're not opponents, even if they might be opponents, even if they're not protesting. That's all the facts. And censusing people on Ljubljana streets and so on. We have not seen this before, at least not in Slovenia. Or the fence of the capital because it holds political opponents of the government of Janez Janša. Where have we seen this before? At what time in the same place? And all this at a time when non-minister Aleš Hojs is sitting at the police's operating center and directing the police to work. He breathes to the police behind his neck, to whom he should and to whom he should not; in what way and where he should move and how the police should deal with political opponents — one by one. Well, it's just one little thing. And before anyone answers me, hey, minister, they can interfere with the work of the police, so here they are, their superiors, the Department of Safety has called in and said, yes, the minister can interfere with the work of the police as we talk about some systemic solutions, as long as he helps them improve the work process or anything systemic. It's not content. And Minister Hojs or non-Minister Hojs got in here a little too far, a little too far away from his powers. And once again: we're talking about the eccentric exploitation of the position, what they say on the other side is abuse of power, and something that is unacceptable. Minister Hoys isn't the only one, we can see that this is a pattern in this government. But remember that modern Europe, as we have already heard today, is based on the foundations of anti-fascism. Now I'm not talking about some ideological fairy tale about what fascism is. This is a very measurable fact, as recorded in the A Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations and recorded in each of the European Communities' constitutions. It has to be! If not, he can't be a member of the community. But Minister Hojs is cheering at this, humming at international standards, humming at people, which is in fact comical; in the same way, the President of the Government whistles at his autonomous decision. Thus is such a ministry of noise, is a disturbance in the achievement of the goal of a healthy society, a healthy country, is rejected because it is backward, is worth any surviving wantbe monarch or totalitarian great leader; in short, without connection. And it is repulsive because, like society, we do not move forward, but into the kind of status quo where we can continue to argue, who is for the partisans and who is for the patriots; in short, the debilitism – “whose old ustasha was but whose partisan” – which I mentioned at the outset. A noise that proclaims all the important decisions that the government takes under the table, which are detrimental to housing policies and social policy and health, and everything that we so loudly point out in Levica all the time. For this to happen, honourable Members and Members, we do not actually interpret Alesh Hojs today, we are interpreting fascism.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj, prepare Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Very well greeted Minister and everyone else, colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, I would like to point out a statement by the representative of the proposer when he stated in his explanation that Janez Janša cannot be here with us today and support his subordinate. I hope that Mr German was joking because he knows why the Prime Minister of the Government was not at the beginning of today's meeting, because his client colleague, I am sure, told him that today he is holding a consultation at Brdo pri Kranj on the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027 and the development of the cohesion region of Western Slovenia organised by the State Council, because we Members from Western Slovenia are very interested in this topic. And the President of the Government, together with the Minister responsible for Development and Cohesion Policy, participated on behalf of the decision makers. I had to say this because of the citizens and citizens who are watching us, because you are misleading them with such statements about the functioning of the Prime Minister. Now let's just go to the content of the interpolation. More than once, it has been chronologically indicated how the process itself took place from beginning to end, but I would like to point out two key issues, namely, the first time the Maribor Police Station has confirmed the application of the transfer. She then immediately proposed to the administrative unit that the event should be banned, on the grounds that it was likely that the event would be attended by the musician or individual groups attending the concert, incentivised with crimes or encouraged to commit crimes, violence and disturbances of public order, or assessed that the concert would be used to carry out crimes. Do you not think that this is an artificial creation of an affair, because in his presentation LMŠ initially stressed that SDS does this, but I think this is exactly what is written here: artificial creation. Furthermore, the procedure ran so that I would not repeat everything and there was a second stage decision when the Ministry of the Interior rejected the complaint. However, in view of the reopening of the procedure from the first stage to the second stage, the Administrative Court also ruled in the meantime. I would now point out that this is the substance of the decision of the Administrative Court, namely that the administration of the unit in the contested decision did not explain and specify on what basis and on what basis the evidence or disputed facts it concluded that it was the intention of the organiser to organise a concert with a view to carrying out criminal offences on it. The administrative unit did not demonstrate the purpose of the organiser solely with flat-rate indications in the decision. The written material of the administrative unit shows that the organiser has done everything necessary to prevent any cause of violence, public order and peace, or the enforcement of criminal offences; that the prohibitions of public events cannot be adopted on the basis of newspaper articles and television contributions and on the basis of online portals, since these are not objective evidence that could be taken into account in the administrative procedure and that the indications of the authorities must be based on evidence. Despite all of this, the Administrative Unit once again decided the opposite and did not take into account what was stated in the judgment of the Administrative Court. However, as the Ministry of the Interior also again decided, the opposite was decided when the Ministry of the Interior was headed by Aleš Hojs. It follows from this that the Ministry of the Interior is in the final epilogue, it is only in the second course of the proceedings that it has decided only to take into account the judgment of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia issued on this particular administrative case. The decision of the officials was not influenced by Minister Aleš Hojs or anyone else. Officials in charge of the procedure conducted the procedure on their own and decided on the matter after examination of the whole administrative matter. What's the point of all this? The procedure was conducted in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, Article 12 of the Administrative Procedure Act clearly states what autonomy is when it comes to decision-making. And for the sake of making it easier to understand what autonomy means in deciding an official in the process, I'm going to give an explanation of the mags. Marjan Štriker, he is a university graduate lawyer who deals with administrative proceedings: “It is an extremely difficult principle, which has been repeatedly violated in practice. Since the officials of the various instances know each other, there may be a quick telephone communication, in which the body handling complaints at a second level, in which case we had the Ministry of the Interior, “an official is proposing a solution to a particular case. [[…]] We are also aware of cases where specific cases are handled "on order" – I repeat, by order – "which violates a number of principles of administrative procedure. The authority or official responsible for the administrative procedure and decision-making in administrative matters shall be independent and independent in the decision-making process. No one shall order him any value definitions or criteria to decide on a particular matter. This means that an official in charge of the administrative procedure cannot, and must not, request or request the opinion of the chairman or the authority of the second stage on how to decide in a particular case, ” so he cannot ask the minister or anyone else in the decision, “the chairman and the supervisory authority may only give general guidance for work or professional guidance. [[…]] The official shall also be independent in the conduct of the proceedings, as he shall act independently in the administrative procedure, determine the facts and circumstances, and shall apply the rules and general acts issued for the exercise of public powers." So, after this explanation, I hope that it is clear to all of us that in the first case, when the Ministry of the Interior first decided under the previous government, it was interference, in all likelihood, with the unauthorized person in the procedure. On the other hand, officials at the Ministry of the Interior decided independently, on the basis of the law and existing facts, without interference between the policy and the authorities. Now I would also like to tell you how it is understood in the local community, an example from the local community, how politics can interfere with procedures. I will show you how the SD represents the functioning of the judiciary and the administrative authorities, because it very clearly shows the effect of the statement made by Mr Matjaž German in practice: "Come to the office tomorrow and put an end to the decision." Of course, they also have the support of the media, which, after their decision or opinion, are independent. After decades of court proceedings, the Social Democrats lost the Kremlin, 800 square metres of a large building in the middle of Nova Gorica. According to the Geodetic Authority, it is worth EUR 720 000. After years of litigation, the higher court of law now ruled that it should be returned to the congregation. The party of the Social Democrats took over the New York Kremlin as the legal successor to the Union of Communists of Slovenia, which, according to the court, had never had ownership rights. And that's not the only real estate they got that way. In fact, while the Social Democrats own 12 properties, most of them have been acquired as legal heirs to the Communist Union. This is not the only case in Goriška that was untouchable under SD tactics. We also have an example of a tourist farm that offers tourism services on the first-class agricultural land without permission and relevant acts and publicly advertises its services through the media. However, this case is not unknown, but it is known to both the competent authorities and the locals. And nothing happens. Why? Surprisingly, the owner of the farm is closely linked to the SD client. I therefore wonder how they can interpellate and accuse Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior, that the procedure was not properly followed by those who are themselves interfering with the procedure. Therefore, I cannot support the interpretation in any way, but I can wish the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojsa and the entire government of Janez Janša a success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The proposaler, Matjaž German, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u130	Your Honor, I just want to make sure that Minister Hojs is still among us, usually the loudest minister who has an opinion for everyone, hasn't spoken for 30 minutes. We'd like some answers. You're the reason we're here. But I'm very sorry, colleague Elena Zavadlav. I can't know where the Prime Minister is. It just seems disrespectful to me that he's not here today, not just because of us, but also because of you, but mainly because of Minister Hojs. That means he's got support that you're a team to keep each other safe. I find it hard to judge local stories, who has any permission, which farm has, which one doesn't. I don't think we're going to go into this debate at the interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word is Minister Hoys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u132	Thank you. I'm not answering now because Mr German missed my intervention in the timing. The reason I'm here is because I'm incredibly surprised at the concern of the Prime Minister's attitude towards me. Don't worry, Mr. German. Mr President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, will be calling today, so you will see him. He told me what the lady also said now to everyone that he had such urgent obligations in the morning, obligations for the development of Slovenia, for the distribution of money, for how we will spend money in Slovenia, that he estimated that it was more important to share it with citizens than to listen to your nebulosis. Because I'm already on the phone. The lady said very well how the SD is doing or how the SD party is doing, how it interferes with open procedures. You quoted the law, the Law of Administrative Procedure, by which the decision could be overturned. So, Mr. German, read this article again. Read it thoroughly, and perhaps you will come to a knowledge that somehow directs you, and perhaps it would not be necessary for all that you wanted to have through Knovs to be reached a month ago if you applied as an MP. There wouldn't have to be a circus. No media pump, how you didn't get it. We know, we read the law, and we know what powers you have as President of Knovs. And if you ask for something you're not responsible for, the director of the police won't give it to you. All that you wanted a month ago could only be obtained with a different signature; with the signature of Matjaž Germany, Member of the DZ. So I suggest that when you quote articles that I should do something about, read the whole law, just like the law that talks about the commission you run as president, and only on the basis of a thorough study, study one or the other. At this stage, I can only say this, although Mr Žaberl's opinion is still, except on Twitter, you have not presented him anywhere else, I do not know, but Mr Zaberl is nowhere in his document, despite the fact that you have been rolling this microphone for six hours now, nowhere in his document does it say that anything is illegal. Read his letter thoroughly as well. He is talking about something that might be controversial, talking about something that could be illegal, and talking about something that might be problematic. So, I don't know where you found his claims to be illegal. Look at something else. I think I have to do whatever my colleague Zaberl has to do, regardless of the fact that, as the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister wrote, Mr Zaberl has become a good political expert – he obviously has political ambitions. Of course, it is perfectly legitimate, completely open, but, you know, to name Mr Zaberl, what you did about a good hour ago, that this is Mr Gale of this procedure, but it is underestimating to him. I wouldn't allow that if I were you. To appoint Mr Zaberl as Mr Gale in this process, this is underestimating.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Proposer Matjaž German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u134	Minister, you have braved yourself and you have spoken and I commend you for this, but you have not yet been able, except for some ballast and trying to raise yourself up in an intellectual sense. You can do that, it doesn't bother me, but gather courage and intellect to answer those three questions I've been asking you for three days. We can also talk about Article 280; you say that I don't understand it, you say you understand it. Just as you stand up to Dr. Zaberl and many of the experts I can list, I will count them for you later, so you put yourself above everything — the National Assembly, the protestors, the police, the prosecutors, the attorneys, because you are the law. As long as you have Mr. Janez Janša, you're safe and you can do whatever you want. You can buy parcels at sea, you can take advantage of your position – you are a protected person – and you can be vehemently walking around Slovenia while you can, I would say, Mr. Kacin. But if you are so brave and so vehemently answer all the key questions, answer three simple questions. Three simple questions, Minister! Therefore, you are silent because we will ask you again and again about three and many other questions that we have not received an answer to. Of course, you refer to all the information in order to speak and wonder and, as previously said, make a story out of a television prediction. Is there a reason for the irrevocable derogation that you failed to prevent an investigation in the event of the acquisition of protective equipment? First. Second. Where is the Minister's information on what matters in your guidelines and mandatory instructions have been completed? How do you know that? Because you can't know that. If you know that, then you've obtained this illegally, this information. And thirdly, is the reason why you don't want to resign to prevent the investigation of the last affair, today's, about buying – your purchase – land in Cyprus, where you're told that you've damaged the Koper Municipality for one million euros? It's obvious, and you throw it away, and I don't know these things. Three basic things. While you're telling us everything, you're forgetting the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Minister Hoys, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u136	The answer to the first question is: No. The answer to the third question is: No. I'd like to know who's reading this to me. So, the client's portal Left, Youth, uncensored. Are you or maybe someone else? Under the line, maybe this. But as for the second question you asked for, I don't understand it. You asked me how I knew my directions were done. I don't understand the question. Listen back. And how do I know my directions are done, so you said a good minute ago?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Yes, Proposer Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u138	Thank you. Dear Minister Hoys, you're making a fool of yourself, not out of me. That's what we've been saying for days. You can do whatever you want. Where does the information on what matters in your direction come from? You've given clear direction. I am talking about the guidelines that many, too many, have referred to as illegal or inappropriate, at least inappropriate, if not illegal; because they do not have a legal basis. If the matter does not have a legal basis, it is likely to be illegal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u139	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u140	Just a moment, Vice President. The right of access to a file or other documentation shall be exercised only by means of a reasoned written request pursuant to Article 181 and Article 34(2). Did you, in these five cases, show legal interest? If you're not, you can't get information. Unless you have information, whether you are lying or obtaining information illegally. How do you know in these five cases that the cases are closed? You claim that you have repeatedly said, based on these guidelines, that you gave guidance only in cases where the cases have already been completed. How do you know these cases are closed? If you know that, it's a crime committed by a respected minister. If you know that! If you don't know and you're saying that, you're lying. You don't have a choice: either you're illegal or you're lying.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u142	You didn't give me your word, or did you give it to me? [[…]] This Vemen of Mr. German is truly incredible. So either I'm working illegally or I'm lying. It's his mantra this afternoon. Here I have a comment 148th article of the CAP, submitted by Stefan Horvat, the Law on Criminal Procedure with a comment saying: “With the filing of criminal charges or reports, the police activity in the specific case ends.” I never said or gave guidance to a police officer to watch what the prosecutor was doing, to let the police director look at what he was doing in court, and I directed the police to look at what he was doing, how the police did their job. Once again, I would like to point out that the police activity in relation to the specific case is terminated by filing a criminal complaint or a report. After the criminal proceedings are pending before the court, the police may collect new evidence only at the request of a state prosecutor or an investigative judge. However, the police's activities must not constitute a correction of the judicial investigation, so that the police will re-examine the accused, witnesses and experts on the facts already being heard in criminal proceedings. So all these cases are either with a criminal complaint or with a police report. I guess I can tell. Whether they're still on the stand for the prosecution or not, according to your explanation, it doesn't matter because the prosecutor can open this case within 10 years. So they never finished. I believe you're in pain, maybe you have a lot of things in these stories, you or your client colleagues, that things are being looked at, that things are being evaluated, that the police chief, that is, the police director, finds out how his criminals are doing, that's what I believe is hurting you. But the Slovenians and the Slovenian public don't hurt. Because they are in pain that in all these cases there is not one trial in court. One trial doesn't go to court! Whether it's in criminal records or in lawsuits, investigative judges or not, I don't know where. I don't know. In these cases, nothing has been found legally so far. It's all right: the Iranian billion washed, the ventricles were overpaid, the heart surgery was overpaid. None of this is known to citizens whether anything has come up. So far, nothing's come up. They know that, let's say, in the case of Jankovic, it's written off -- I mean, 40 million euros, 29, plus 8, plus 6, and so on, but nothing actually happened. Except there's been so much write-offs and so much money. That is why, according to my assessment, it is vital that we listen to those experts or those who have said that these guidelines or what I have ordered are legal. Eminent lawyers have not written, perhaps it could be legal or perhaps it is right, as Mr. Zaberl writes — it could be. Eminent lawyers write and also announce that these guidelines are perfectly legal. Of course, one of such eminent lawyers is Mr Boštjan M. Zupančič, Judge of the European Court of Human Rights. He also made this public. Then we have a whole series of records or report is a slightly older date that is made by equally eminent lawyers – if you allow me, I will find it, if I don't, and I will turn it off this moment, so that I won't waste my time, because I would like to have it as a closing statement, where I will point out much more essential things, where they wrote that this report is an annex. [[…]] I'm sorry, I'm gonna check out, and I'm gonna find him, and then I'm gonna check in later, so my minutes aren't running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u143	The replica has a lady first. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u144	I'm a representative of the proposer, Mr Vice President, I have the advantage. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u145	Here's the replica. She checked in earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u146	Mr Hojs has just admitted to reviewing those cases that are still being directed by the state's Attorney's Office, which is illegal. Please take a look at the magnetogram. That's the key. He admitted it today. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u147	Dear Mr. German, I would ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure. The President shall give the floor. Now Mrs Violeta Tomić has the word, she has a replica, because she has been raising her hand for quite some time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr Hoys is deceiving and I must stress, of course, he is judging himself. The SDS even has media equipment and would like to submit all media to avoid exposing their dirty business. We don't have any portals in Levica, and we don't have any newspapers in Levica, and let's be clear. But for you, there are all the left-wing newspapers that don't glorify you and your great leader. I ask you very clearly whether the sales contract that I have before me is the sign of a parcel from Rjeck, the purchase and sale of real estate, d. o.o., from the representative of Director Marat Idrisov as a seller and Aleš Hojs as a buyer, the sign of plots – blah blah – which, according to Gursa's nature, represents agricultural land, actual use, the area of rural settlement, the intended use, the area of a plot of 882 square meters, on which there is no built building, or whether you bought it for the chicks 75 thousand 910 euros or not and thus obtained at least 189, almost 200 000 euro of property benefits. Answer that question and don't keep fooling around with some Bosniaks M. Zupančički with some courts, because that really doesn't make sense. We are talking about you and your actions, which, in our view, are unacceptable. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u149	Dear Mrs Violet, I will read you Article 70 and do not use the Rules of Procedure, replicas for things and ask questions. Please! I'll read it to you because you've been jumping around. Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure states: “Every debater has the right to reply to the debate of another debater – a replica – as far as this debate relates to his debate, if he considers that his debate was misinterpreted or misinterpreted.” That's not a replica! You asked the question. Next time, I'll take your word for it. Let's move on. Minister Hoys, did you say you'd reenlist? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u150	Thank you very much. This is an expert opinion by Prof. Dr. Gorazd Trpin, Prof. Dr. Igor Kavčič, Prof. Dr. Franc City, reviewer of Prof. Dr. Tone Jerovšek, in which they wrote among others, I will not, of course, read everything, but this sentence is important: "The supervisory function in the administrative process represents the feedback of information on the whole event in a particular part of the ministry. In order to do so, the Minister must have access to all relevant information relating to the work of the body in the composition, otherwise it cannot perform its own functions by law at all. No data in the body in the system can be so confidential” – can be so confidential – “that the minister cannot or can not have access to it.” [[…]] [[…]] Not a single piece of data. Interesting! “The objection that aggregated data are sufficient for the exercise of its supervisory function” – aggregated data – “is not true, since the exercise of this function is not only a general control of the situation in a particular area, but also a specific control over the implementation of certain activities and measures through administrative acts.” [[…]] [[…]] In conclusion of today's debate, I will read two other paragraphs, which I think are also very important, but perhaps at this point I would like to say something else. Mr Zaberl wrote in his opinion that I had chosen five cases, five specific crimes. So, very underestimating to this national council, very underestimating to the prosecution. In these five cases, it's either dozens or hundreds of crimes, but nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Jani Möderndorfer has the word to prepare Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u152	Finally! At first, I'm going to talk about a few things I listened to. I must say that I have listened very precisely and carefully from my room and have been monitoring the performances of both Mr Hojs and of course all Members and Members of Parliament since morning. I have to say, in fact, I'm a little confused because the biggest interpolation experts have suddenly found that interpolation is a waste of time. That's not the best way to understand what that means. Or, in fact, it is hard to look at the interpretations that were actually created and essentially laid the foundations and, last but not least, at the parliamentary practice of how this is done in the National Assembly. For most of them were written, and most of them were put in, and most of the time they thundered and groaned here, after the National Assembly, concerning interpretations. Only one was successful, not because of them, but because that party decided not to have that minister anymore. Remember the Bandj case and he was – interesting – the interior minister. He was puffed up so that in the end his own party could no longer see him and was surprised because his own MPs rejected him when they saw him act. I must say, all day long, when I look at Mr. Hoys, he reminds me of Mr. Bandl because he's so puffed up that it's something amazing. We're counting here, saying we're drilling into a microphone, and I don't know what else. Unworthy, Mr. Hoys! And this is not parliamentary practice. But it is true that the chair in which you sit is hot, and everyone must know that he must endure the heat before sitting in a hot chair. Because if he can't stand it, he can't sit in a hot chair. You know the story about the chef, don't you? It's hard to be a cook if you can't handle the heat because he keeps it in the workplace. However, not least, you knew this because you were in fact in a growing or early youth, a young man you were when you decided to go into political life and work seriously in political life. That's why interpellation, even though you are experiencing it for the first time as Minister of the Interior, is not really foreign and you know what that means. You also know well, and today you can all hide and talk about a meeting on the Hill and what else I know. I, if I were a minister, and my boss doesn't come here for at least the first 15 minutes at that performance, because the Prime Minister can always take 15 minutes; hiding from how he saves the country – please! Just don't tell me how he's saving the country, because he really likes other things that he's really into later on or later on. I therefore find it unworthy to discuss today at all that today is an unnecessary time for interpretation. The other thing is, of course, if we talk and see if the interpretation is what today is, of course, that we are only talking about Thompson's concert. Of course not! Mr Hojs has made so many cookies from the day of the interpolation, and he has given a gift that he should, by all hygiene standards, really give up himself. And I understand it in my own way. In my own way, I totally understand him. No, he didn't write a resignation statement. No, far from it! He knew damn well what he was writing. He really failed the plan he had set up, and he also said and gave his word that he would arrange it. And when the house investigation happened, he just found out what things he couldn't handle. But at the hearing I listened to Mr Hojs what he was saying, and at the hearing he made it very clear that he liked order and that he would also do something for order. The devil's in the details. This order is imagined in its own way. Today was also a lot of saying, now, 10 minutes ago, he was talking again about things that he should be for if he were a real minister, quiet. It's not. He likes it and he says, we'll take care of it, we'll investigate it, and in the SDS we're always for it, for the truth, and we need to clean up and make order. And so on. What am I talking about? Constantly, he repeated the Iranian money laundering four times. There I heard Iranian money laundering twice or three times from New Slovenia. I don't know, Mr. Hoys, if you even know what money laundering is. I don't even know if you really know that. Why? In the National Assembly, we had a parliamentary inquiry, which I led among other things, and you will not believe it, it is not my whim, the National Assembly has adopted substantive conclusions. They're in here, publicly available to the entire Slovenian public. That's why I can talk about them. But there's a big bang like that in the basement, and it's closed to the public. And you know a lot of this because you have access, not to these documents in the National Assembly, but to those in the Ministry. And if you know anything – and from this case, I will give it as an example for the nonsense you are interpreting today, and you also said it at the press conference. In fact, it is wrong — one who says that you must not exercise control within the police. I completely disagree with that. I agree that the Minister can introduce control at any time, or as you yourself have shown in the chart, also gives guidance. By no means — whether you are now betrothed or subconsciously convinced that you can do so — you cannot do a review of the times. Never, never, not the law, not the constitution, nothing allows you to do that! The audit, excuse me, exists only on one other body where there is a requirement to review the procedure as a final instance before you go, say, to the Constitutional Court or to the European Court. And you know exactly who's doing it. Not the police! Your predecessor, or predecessor of one term, came back in the case of the laundering of Iranian money, when it was being monitored and when a colleague, then Mr Logar, the current Minister for Foreign Affairs, came with the whole matter a day in his investigative committee – he knew about this information already in December, and for certain reasons, I will tell him very nicely that I will not be ugly, mistakes made in the SDS, someone who launched it too early on the day. Well, that was later seen in the investigation. Because they wanted to use it as a political fight, what some opposition are actually seeing today. And, of course, the day came the so-called idea of money laundering. But you like to use this word link, but you know, the address of the commission of inquiry was not supposed to be money laundering, as is the case with the SDS client in the current mandate of the commission of inquiry, which is being investigated for alleged money laundering, but also terrorism or proliferation. That's the key, you know. Today, most Slovenian citizens or residents think that this billion has been taken by some Slovenes, or the country, or I don't know who. Sorry, that money was Iranian money. The question was only why it was shipped through certain banks and through Slovenia, and more importantly, it was later found that Slovenia was not the only case at all and that it went through Slovenia, but that it went through countries like Germany, in the same way over 8, 9, 10 billion. And more importantly, you won't believe it! The new Ljubljana Bank has become rich with this business. She got cash, and that's why there wasn't a bank hole. The bank hole was created because of another thing. And in all of this, you hope to claim — and now be careful — a world word that I still do not understand today, who and what it is — that the deep state was financing with this billion. Do you think the Iranians are stupid enough to give some of your imaginary heroes billions of money? What do you say they fund electoral campaigns? Please! Have you ever heard the word "proliferation"? Can you explain to her what it is? Well, here's where you have to make a dot and call and ask. What did the investigative commission find out? The commission of inquiry found that someone had abandoned the duty of control. Among other things, the police spent too much time researching because they didn't even know what to do and how to do research and thought it was a matter for the Governor of the Bank or the Bank of Slovenia. The money laundering authorities didn't know what to do. But every time you say money laundering, Iranian money, you don't say that there was another law that didn't even make it a crime for us. It is only in 2010 that the law changes and this issue is regulated and there is much more to be done. But the point was something else; the point was that from the President of the Government to all ministers, the supervisory functions had been cancelled and the red lights had not turned on. Money laundering in terms of washing, proven, has never been proven, except in one case. As far as the billions are concerned, I can tell you the height of the amount. But why was she found out? She was found to be in violation of the embargo. Those who do not know, the UN or the United Nations and later the European Community have adopted an embargo against the then state of Iran. At that time, there was a single transaction, and then all of a sudden, it broke. That's when everyone jumped in the luft. Well, that's the whole story. And this is what we find in these findings of the investigative commission and, most importantly, the complaints go on to the police. And that's what you're worried about right now because nothing happened. Now I'm going to tell you what charges have gone on from the Logar Commission. Not one complaint was intended for money laundering, but it was intended in general for individuals within the bank and similar and other actors, not to list all names. Of course, he was the prosecutor in the end because the charges were so sent when he was looking for a legal basis, an illegal act, that he could not find out. This was again reported to the National Assembly. And the other thing that I think is crucial to the whole thing is that you want to pay attention to your interpretation by talking about Iranian money laundering all the time. Today, before this session began – and that is why we do not want this, never and never, because of your SDS desire to change the media landscape – you were not paying attention when the third programme of this interpretation began. You usually know how this works. Initially, the journalist always says, today is the meeting, this and this point, this and this content will be held, the debate will take place, have so much time and usually – let's say today – 17 hours, and in 17 hours we will have a vote. I wish you a nice view – and that's all. Do you know who made the introduction to programme three today? You didn't hear him, just tell him you didn't know. Now I can probably tell you how to keep everyone in check. Mr Pirkovic had his columnal performance and introduction, where he used the words — interestingly — which you later used in your performance: a performance for the public, we will watch 17 hours of unnecessary meetings and similar nonsense. Thus from this city I call on the editor of the information program to arrange in his own kind, because Mr Pirkovic is literally involved in Thompson’s story – by the way! Why is he working on programme three today? And he's the one who's about to introduce you to the third program, to your interpretation. I'm afraid of this, you know, so I don't like the other republic, so I don't like this government, because in the case of covid-19, he's actually laying low and laying low preparing everything he needs, what Janša missed in his first government and his second government. And this path will not stay away from its plan. You know, the devil is in the details again, as always. You're a star today, but forget, you're not a star. You're just a chess piece moved by a prince on a chessboard. And you will be forgotten very quickly, because sooner or later he will sacrifice you as soon as necessary. Just like everyone else. There were many before you who had already sacrificed them because they were farmers. Farmers at the chess store. Your resignation. I have to say that today I don't even know if this interpretation is even in line with the rules of procedure, because in fact I don't know if this is all right. Although today the Vice-President or all of us wanted to convince us that the applicant had no advantage over the replica, he spoke of a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I am concerned about all this interpretation because I do not know if it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We are voting on something or we are deliberating, which is not really anymore. Do you understand what I'm saying? There's a chance you won't, but there's nothing about it. In the final stage, you are not the only one accompanying this session. And that's a key question for me. For the first time. In fact, neither Janša nor you have the right to revoke the Constitution by means of non-opening mail. That's not working. It just doesn't work. I won't be convinced by anyone. At least you're the one! But the other thing that's problematic to me is, you know -- we know when someone threatens to resign. I don't think you've ever put yourself in danger. Then we know the case when someone offers a resignation. And the Prime Minister says, "I accept, I don't accept." Then there's a third option for you to step down. And then there's a fourth option: an irrevocable withdrawal. Final count. But there's no going back here. And you did the last one. That's why your friendly chats don't open the mail – please! You really think the Prime Minister opens his own mail? Do you really believe that or what? He's got the General Secretariat for that. When all the mail comes in, come on, Vice President. [[…]] Every post that comes to the government is first inspected by bombardment and then by content and so on. Please, who do you think believes these fairy tales? But an ideal plan was made, of course, which you failed to do, because, my dear Mr. Hoys, don't think we're all so stupid and we'll buy this stunt. First of all, you've been thinking about the following; the interpolation can't be now, let it be in the fall because it's going to be a little bit of a fall, people will forget and the thing will be ad acta and then, fuck, we'll talk about some Thompson, and who cares about it, it's a no-brainer et cetera et cetera. But then there will be new problems, a second wave of covida, we'll all have masks and similar nonsense again. No, we're not buying this! You have violated the Constitution by not recognizing the Constitution, even though you have sworn to work in accordance with the interests of this country. It's not a good thing. This is the formal procedural part. Well, now we're going to the content. But the contents hurt, you know? It hurts me. I mean, if I did one percent of that, I wouldn't be a minister anymore. One percent! Especially if you could prove it to me. When she did Györkös' internal audit, she did not make sure that it was properly done by laundering money — what the criminals were doing and reviewing — but was looking at procedures. And yes, one thing I agree with you; the case can't be opened for 10 years, as it was in the case of Iranian money, but it has to close once. But it can be reopened at any time. That's a fact. If there are new indications, new elements, new evidence et four et four et four et four. That was the key problem. And at the time of the commission of inquiry, Györköseva also gave guidance and, by giving direction, made it clear that certain errors existed. In the National Assembly, we have a report of this review, a supervisory review, it's closed to the public, and we know what went wrong. We've been briefed on him. But the way you do it! But just what I'm following in the media, I don't even see what you're really doing right now, but you're confusing yourself with the words here and there; once I've finished this case, and once I'm not finished with the Short, you're doing the control – "yes, I'm not doing the revision" Today you mentioned that you're doing the audit, and I'm quoting what you said: "Revision is a great interest" Yes, a great interest of the SDS party. [[…]] [[…]] [[…]] What kind of audit are you doing, Mr. Hoys? Explain to me. You're not called for revisions. Then it's the next thing. Today you mentioned in your performance, one of them, because there were already quite a few of them, you spoke and you read – but I am not an advocate, an SD lawyer, I also criticize it sometimes, but this path you went really untastingly too far. You were talking about their loans and how much they were in debt and you were saying that the money was very strong. Who says that? Mr Hojs, a member of the SDS, who borrowed money from Dijana Djudžić, who is now busy and who has returned it and committed a proven offence, and for which an investigation commission has been set up, whether she has allegedly laundered money and participated in strange or illegal transactions. Please, Mr. Hoys, just don't mention who she sent for the money. Please. For ye know the sayings, that ye may first cleanse with thee, or cleanse, or at least be quiet. I understand you like to attack because it shows you have energy, power, and control, but not that way. It's not going anywhere. But what matters most is that you take credibility not only for yourself, but for everyone else. Tell me how to trust a man who does everything you do. You know how it's gotten to you that all of a sudden you're interested in cases, I'll tell you. You know, if you think this is the first time we've seen this movie, this movie's been going on! I'll tell you: Supposedly laundering money from Janša's spouses through cousin Urska B. Janša. 4. 9. 2013 on POP TV reports that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering investigates suspicious bank transactions conducted on behalf of Janez Janša by Natasha Pajenk, cousin of Mrs Urska B. Janša. 5. 9. In this regard, the police will contact the Anti-Money Laundering Office. 30. 9. 2013, Janez Janša, “all accounts have been paid with family money” – I am just stating texts to refresh our memory because some people like to forget. 25. 11. In 2013, the media reported that SDT was to order a financial investigation against Janša's spouse and the late Jožet Zagozno. In October 2013, SDT issued an order on the financial investigation of Janez Janša's assets and members of his family. 27. 3. 2015 – Final financial investigation against Janez Janša and Urško B. Janša, Rajka Janša, Natašo Pajnek and the late Jožet Zagozna, 19. 4. In 2017, the SDT shall file an action for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. What am I trying to say? You know, at the time that all this was happening, something else happened that we know here, what happened back then. Green traffic lights are set on and Rottweilers are released and unannounced investigations or police surveillance are launched, and in a specific case in Celje, where they are looking for what was going on. We all knew what we were looking for. They were looking for how far the investigation was actually in the case of Janez Janša and precisely this financial investigation. It was done by the same actors who master it and know it. And Knovs had very similar problems to what we have today and we're looking at them today. Of course, the story ended because there are cases in the Constitutional Court, you know how it fell – those you forgot. You can't take property. Similarly, if you remember, even in the case of Dragan Tošić and so on and so on. But now I have the word to use that Mr. Hojs has already used in his performance today. Let's just say I'm imagining it. What if there is a similar investigation on Furs in this regard — still? As you know, these investigations are classified. I don't know, maybe. But what happens on Furs? There's a change of leadership! Because someone won't stop the investigation! I guess. I believe, Mr. Hoys, that you will tell me very quickly that I have a very strong imagination, but you know, I've been looking at some pictures today, and the rifles in those pictures that someone has shown. The devil is in detail again, those guns must have been Slovenian. But who had the most weapons problems in this country with money, and I'm not even going to mention it. With these parables, of course, I want to make it very clear, Mr Hojs, with your performances, you have lost your reputation by your conduct. I don't want your order because your order is becoming a mess in democracy, but it creates elements of another republic, it wants to go through the legal order that we have in this country, clearly, it's the union, it tells you the prosecution, it's spoken to you by certain police officers, it's the section of the Faculty of Security Sciences, the experts who were once in the police and know and work on it. All I'm talking about is from the media, I don't know anything, something that I'd be particularly aware of. First thing I want to do is close the story. Let me just say one more thing. You mentioned today that these are some other media. I read this for the first time in Youth today. I'm not even gonna go into the details because I don't care at all, but I'm interested in something else. We have a constant problem in this society that when we find out that he was buying something – in this country it is not illegal to buy, very legitimate and everyone has the right to have money or resources to buy what he wants – and if, in the end, I will tell you everything is okay, I will even congratulate you and ask you to tell me how to buy a land where so much money is saved, because I would like to have it, and I believe that all my colleagues would like to buy it. In a legal way. And that's how citizens want to get this kind of property. But we're back to some details: well-known names of the local community. Because you know, a natural person, a private sector couldn't sell you something like that. So all I want to know is, today, before the Slovenian public, tell them it's all a lie. And I'll calm down. I won't discuss it. Why today? Because today is interpolation. Because today people are watching this and today they want to hear from you that we're wrong and that it's not true and that it's right and that we need to be clear. Mr. Hojs, you will serve as minister, because the votes are numbered, the mathematics is clear. I can't imagine you won't. But you're no longer a minister to me. You didn't and you won't! And I'll tell you why not. Because you walked the Constitution. You have trampled on principle, and you have trampled on your own word. People who run over and devour their own words and decisions, I can no longer trust.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Minister Alesh Hoys has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u154	Yes, thank you very much. On this level, Mr. Möderndorfer's words will not go down. As far as his word goes, he says the largest number of clients he's replaced, so I won't go into it. As far as this article is concerned today in Youth or uncensored — because you are all so interested, are you not? The story is similar to that story that goes on, I think, for 15 years now, or something like that involving the Prime Minister of the Government. There too he was accused of buying something. No, there he was accused otherwise. [[…]] That he sold too much. Now I've been accused of buying too much. [[advertising from the hall]] No, Mrs. Tomic, I'm not. I didn't. No, Mrs Tomić, I can't save you because I'm a builder because I've been doing things I've been doing for years. By the way, Mrs Tomić, years ago, and I am no longer the owner, I bought in the middle of Ljubljana, you can imagine, in the middle of Ljubljana, a flat of thousands of euros per square meter. It's a new place. They were then, but do you know how many apartments? Two thousand 800. Good, isn't it? You know I didn't buy it myself. Six hundred people bought us an apartment like that. Six hundred. We were saving in the housing savings scheme, the apartments were sold by the RS Housing Fund and I bought an apartment for a thousand 300 euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u155	Minister, Hoys, just a moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u156	I answer what they're asking me.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u157	No, just a minute. I ask the ambassadors on my left not to disturb the speaker during his speech. Thank you very much, please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u158	Look, as far as what Mr Möderndorfer said is concerned, this is very important. Thank you for saying that. All that you mentioned, 2012, 2013, 2014, did not fly on me, it flew on, if I understood correctly, and on Mr Janša on the cousins so on. What's in all that war? What about all that, Mr. Möderndorfer? Nothing! Because the police, too, will not say the whole, whether the prosecution or part of the prosecution, but the part of the court that hides the picture with the SD party is used for political purposes. None of what you've listed is finished, nothing's finished. And these seven additional cases of your former boss, Mr Jankovic, who you also served very faithfully, none of this has happened. I have a record of my criminal case right here in front of me. My criminal cases. I got it, including the views. From 2008 to 2014, I was in criminal proceedings. Can you imagine that? Seven years. Why? Because I was politically wrong. The direct charge falls, the court's investigation falls, the prosecution's pressure falls on me. The same was said in the government yesterday by Mr Zvone Černač. For 5 years, he has been scolded because of the complaint, and I think that Mr Rigelnik – I think Rigelnik was also a member of the SD. For five years, he was scolded in the courts to fall in the end. That is why, Mr. Möderndorfer, and your words will not get me out of the way.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u160	I didn't expect my word to get you out of line. But it's right that people hear and also your performance and your answer tells everything. And you got me wrong about who this was meant for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Matjaž Han has the word to prepare Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u162	Thank you. After these discussions, I'd like to go home, but I'll say a few things. First of all, and in this National Assembly and Mr Minister, Secretary of State and also to the public, we are in the National Assembly. We're political parties. We have our own programs. Because we have our own programs, we have our own voters, we have our own members. Some of us are prouder, some of us are less proud. We also have our values and, above all, if we are a serious political party, we also have our foundations in an ideology. At least I think it's the same. We're not a party that came up two days earlier, or because she made a deal in one of the taverns, or when one of the uncles came, they said, and now you're going to be a client. We're a party with our values. It is one of the main values to us that we are allies and that we essentially respect the partisan struggle and no Ustashas, no troops, no fascists are acceptable to us. I'm a social democrat. That's a big difference. I'm speaking in person. I do not allow and do not allow in Europe, in the 21st century, to be magnified, but anyone, the Ustasha, the Chetnut regime, the Fascist regime. Why did we, Minister, write this interpellation? And a call. Interpellation is a tool of opposition. Now I want to talk about these tricks, including New Slovenia and so on, let's deal with important things. Yes, we all know everything, but, part of the policy is also interpretation, ideological debate, here we have heard many times from your side. I have no problem with this, except that one day we Members may be sitting a little longer in the National Assembly, because otherwise we would probably be somewhere else now, but I don't know what we're doing and so on. Our job is here. That's how I don't have a problem with it. This morning I was driving to Ljubljana and, of course, I was thinking about this interpretation. I've been thinking for a while now, and I didn't know if it was smart or smart or something, but, you know, some things you have to control. In politics, the word applies, at least I hope, something has to apply. Even if we do not agree, even if we do not agree with the solution, I do not know what the word applies, the handshake is valid and I have no problem shaking hands with Mr Hojs, Mark or anyone else. I don't have a problem. And also disagree with some of the views. Just because we don't have the same look doesn't mean you're bad or I'm bad. But if a politician gives his word in terms of, Mr. Hoys, I give up irrevocably, then yes, and surely – yes? Then you resign and that is why, Mr Hojs, we have one month or two months later of interpolation, because otherwise there should be interpolation before we go on vacations if the matter were normal. We've been interviewing you for 30 days. You've had time to respond. Interpellation would come within seven months. It's not. Why? Yes, because we did not receive kabayagi from the President of the Government, a paper where the National Assembly would inform us of our resignation. Now we have two months, and in these two months, don't mind the minister, a lot of things have happened that we look at differently than you do. A lot of substitutions have happened, even though I'm talking all the time, these are sports things, once you, once we do, it has to be, and the problem is when we make substitutions, we start with these substitutions to have the power to use this power for our positions. That's when it's normal. You're surrounded by Franz Kangler. Franz Kangler had 18 cases in the last three, ten, five years — I don't know — in France, 18 cases that fell on you in court. I believe your pain, but does it have to happen again in this country? Make sure that happens again! And I'm scared. These pictures, Mr. Secretary, they suck. Show these pictures. We can show ourselves the pictures, as Ferrian had previously shown that picture, we have shown from Eve Irgle's picture, these images are a million. You can see me in a lot of pictures with an Esdes, but I'm not embarrassed. Not to me. No, no, no. I mean, it's childish of this picture to say that the judges [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Do you know, Mr. Hoys? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u163	Mr. Secretary, please. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u164	These different stories, who's with who, who's with who, who's with, I know just like you. Just like you. So don't tell me about these pictures but about these things. I still believe that I can be naive, I still believe in the rule of law. When I lose this as a citizen and even more as a Member, then I regret to leave this country, because I think that Slovenia is still a legal state, because if it were not for the rule of law, I apologize, Franz Kangler would be in prison. But since he is a state of law, Franc Kangler is now Secretary of State. Is he holding or not holding? No, no, look, maybe I'm thinking naively. Hold that, but it doesn't? Since he is a legal state, Franc Kangler is Secretary of State today, otherwise he would be Franc Kangler, if you were to say those pictures and so on, Frank Kangler would be in jail. And I apologize to you, Franca, but I don't want you to. You're Secretary of State today because the rule of law and the law in this country is valid. And thank God it's working! [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u165	Please don't disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u166	You know what's going to happen to these interpellations once, and with these pronunciations of coalition partners, we have a coalition contract. You know, that's because we've all done something in our lives and what kind of contract you have, and the other one -- no matter how much it costs, it costs, we'll move on. That's not true! If something's wrong, something's wrong. Desus, and my friends, I have to say, with ease, our Anjo Digač Dark was demolished. Easy! But today it's more important for them to stay in the government for another half year, and it'll cost them as much as it costs. Sometimes it hurts because you don't have enough as a man to say, "No, Mr. Aleš Hojce, you've resigned irrevocably, stand down, and I think you've done it wrong. We'll meet you in the next story. No! No! The coalition agreement is important. Please! And then we talk about Pivchev, you have the ministry, and the president of the party without the MPs. So where did we come from? Well, that's impossible. But once again, I'm just speaking out loud, it's so your thing, it's not a matter of opposition, you're going to do as some things you're going to do. Tomorrow we're going to put in an interpolation, I don't know, for one minister, we're going to remember, Mr. Kotnik, we're going to file an empty sheet. And then we'll talk about everything and everything, we'll bet each other, in the end we'll say, you'll say, we have a coalition contract, we'll say, and we're the opposition. Yeah, we're not gonna get anywhere that far. If something's wrong, something's wrong. That's why, Mr. Hoys, I'm only asking you one question. And I do, just like our Bakowitz, who worked his whole life in the police force. What's interesting? Is it that bad if he was a cop? No! No! He was also a sub-commander, or as it were called, assistant commander, and a man who also studied, who was very, very clear to him. And he didn't get all the answers. That's why I might ask you, Mr. Secretary. The law on police organisation and work clearly sets out what the Minister of the Interior can do and cannot do. Articles 3 and 4 clearly state what direction and direction the police can give. It also clearly states the procedure by which he can give direction and guidance, and it clearly states when and in which cases he must not do so. That's clearly what it says in there. So, according to this law, what your powers are. Therefore, I was disturbed by your statement of resignation, where you wrote, "that, under the existing legislation and powers that I have as minister, it does not allow for effective depoliticisation and changes in the police." It is said that you, with this record – I would otherwise design it, a little more beautiful – have in fact made it clear or that the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police in Articles 3 and 4 does not give you these powers, which you now impose. I can get it wrong, but I'll say, that's how I read it. Even around these big fabulous, fabulous stories. Iranian money. Jani Möderndorfer, he said great things. And I'll tell you, you haven't been a minister yet, in this National Assembly, we've all accepted the investigative committee, the conclusions of the Logar. All Members of Parliament. At least I'm talking about Social Democrats. All of them; even more so, when Mr Logar in the opposition needed additional money for an investigative committee for experts, we helped the Social Democrats to adopt the amendment. Two hundred thousand euros was needed by Mr Logar to get the money, because there were also two hundred thousand problems at the time, of course now billions are not a problem, we have done so too. What else is easy, Minister, my mission as an MP? What more can I do than accept – no, no, just to accept – all the conclusions of the investigative commission led by Mr Logar, the opposition back then. What else can I do? And I support everything. Second. Tash. Of course, only the Social Democrats were to blame. The story of TEŠA is long, the Social Democrats have adopted all the conclusions; everything the National Assembly has adopted. At that time, the commission of inquiry was led by Hanžek. Nothing's done yet. Here. Do you think it suits us that nothing is done in this story or in this story, and it is easier to say: Social Democrats are to blame for everything. Vulnerable braces – the same. We've accepted everything. Nothing complicated – nothing can be done again. Is this about the politics now? Excuse me, Minister. Is this about the politics? No, no, I'm talking, and it's our fault? [[advertising from the hall]] Wait a minute, I'm sorry. We can talk now, and we can throw a fog, and I'm sorry, and we can make this story and that story. There's a lot of stories to make a fog. You know what? The fog will eventually go away when the elections are over, and people will tell their story. But it is dangerous; it is dangerous for each other to be exposed to politics — what Jani said — with a finger. Some who have names and no one's name. That's why it feels bad. My late father taught me to be a nice guy. The poor feeling, Minister, is that you want to show us, Members of the Social Democrats, some things because of political views, which we have nothing to do with this. Interpellation, but don't mind, yes, and if you want, I'll make it clear: of course it's ideological. Thompson, of course it is. If we wrote it again, we'd go back to the same thing. Since you quoted your esteemed lawyers earlier, I think you would also define yourself in this matter clearly, because it's hard for the police to say no once, says yes, your girls at the Ministry once write like that, once write otherwise. In view of this, I will say we would hit the table, for example, because you are an anti-fascist: "This concert in Slovenia will not be." Just as it will not be in Pula in Croatia, and in many Croatian cities and as it is not in other European countries. Because to say that I don't know what security matters will be, because this is not about security matters to fight, the problem is that they are encouraging what I hope will never show up in this world again. That's the fascism. Fascism from 1941 to 1945 or earlier. That's why I think you might be able to react. I can also believe you didn't know, but when you found out, you could hit the table. Done. That's what I imagine. That is why, Minister, I will support the interpellation, and especially because, at the end of the day, we must restore little respect with the petty actions of this policy, at which moment we are inside. A little bit, they'll believe us, and we can get each of our constituents to go after me, and yours will go after you. But that's not enough. If we say something, then we do it all the way. And that's what bothered me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word is Minister Hoys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u168	I'll be very brief. Mr. Han, thank you for the debate. I think you've been very correct. I've never said in these eight hours that Members of the House have done anything wrong. Even more! I've pointed out many times, you've been united, you've supported everything, you've wanted things to be investigated. But when it comes to making changes effectively, when it comes to making changes, it's not your fault, of course, it's not your fault. But who could be to blame for nothing but the police, the prosecution and the courts? Do you agree with that? That these are three systems that can prevent corruption in our society and that everything that goes wrong in terms of economic crime is prevented. These three systems are the police, the prosecution, the judiciary. Of course I'm not talking about it being a key. But look, Mr Kangler had no idea how many, 17 criminal charges, spent years in court, judges who I think are not independent, and when politics wants to change things in the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, it is still part of politics. You said it right there, we've all been for these times, we've all supported everything, but when it comes to making a change or making a difference at home, change things in these three key systems, but all of a sudden it's a big problem. Look, Mr. Han, I'll give you absolutely right. TESH 6, you named him nice. I don't know if he was just an SD. I don't think so. Because such big corruption affairs are usually made up of all political sexes in some kind of coexistence and co-existence. But look at this famous NPU, do you know that this famous NPU, an elite unit of Slovenian police, did nothing in TES 6. Who brought TES 6 to court? C.I.P.D. in Celje, where criminals are paid 40 percent less than N.P.U. The NPU has done nothing in this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Proposer Matjaž German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u170	I just want to make a point. But what the minister says, at least in the last performance, is partly true. But the different view between us is that you, as Minister of the Interior, you are the Minister of the Interior, you have no role to play in the other branch of power. This is a court-martialed, respected minister. You're not the minister for everyone. You were the Minister of the Interior. We all know how many open questions there are that didn't get epilogues. And not just the ones you've directed. There are a lot of them, but we don't want them. But the point is, everyone has to do their job. If you wanted to act the way you wanted and wanted to change, then you would have settled down and started with the law, not the way you did it. How would it be if the Minister of Education were involved in police matter? That's what you've gone beyond. This is where you went across the border, Your Honor. You're in a coalition, you have a government, you propose a change in the law and you make this a legal matter, not you say with your finger, which part of the maps will have to open. When we talk about the audit, the audit took place randomly, and within the audit, the contents that were being revised were chosen, not by the Minister saying, look at me, that map, look at me, look at the third map. That's not what the minister does! You're dealing with the D.A.'s office. That's what prosecutors do. This is the limit that you have exceeded, Minister of Respect, despite the good will, if I may ascribe it to you, if it is true that you want to change things for the better, but, the way is wrong and the way is not in accordance with the law, Minister of Respect. That's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Messengers and Members of Parliament are asked to respect the speaker, and not to be disturbed by the conversation when he speaks. Thank you very much. Let's move on. The word is Aljaž Kovacič, prepare Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Mr. Hoys, colleagues and colleagues! Before I go to the debate alone, I'm actually interested in one question. Considering you're 30. 6. You have irrevocably resigned and that you obviously have a broken working relationship, whether you have applied to the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work, given that you are still in this place, and since we also have in Slovenia for these services. That's what I'm interested in. I'm asking for your answer. Otherwise, I think you are an excellent minister, but not for a country like Slovenia, it is said, for a democratic country, because all your actions are actually going in the direction of non-democratic units. I also think that you are an important factor, which is why the President of the Government has given you this important function, and that these are, as has already been said today, some games for the public, which in fact few of them, perhaps your party's voters, believe. As far as interpolation is concerned, I agree that today should not be at all. First of all, because, as mentioned earlier, you have made an irrevocable withdrawal. In fact, you also played the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because if we were to do so, we should decide at the July session now in September. The other thing, why shouldn't this interpolation be, is because in my opinion, even the person you are should not become a minister, but, you know, who gave you the votes, and also those who elected you as a whole of this government bear responsibility for your work. There's been a lot of talk today about stopping, about Thompson. It saddens me that in the 21st century we are even talking about these things, and apparently many people still don't even know what it is. Speaking of Thompson, we must be aware that his own homeland, the Republic of Croatia, or the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia have ruled that greetings for a house are ready for an Ustasha greeting. It is said that his own country condemns him, and some in Slovenia would worship him, which makes me very sad. We can agree or discuss whether you are suitable for a minister or not, which saddens me that those who defend you do not respond to the obvious, but go to some actual discreditation of individuals, which is in fact the custom of your client. Instead of responding to the obvious, you pretended to be a proponent, which is the first-signed Matjaž the German, and you say some pictures of him taking pictures with whom he hangs out. Even if Matjaž German were the world's greatest communist, even if he was taking pictures with anyone, that's not the topic today. Then call a meeting of the National Assembly on Matjaž the German and we will discuss Matjaž the German. Today, however, we are talking about you, Mr Hojs, and I would therefore expect coalition partners to defend you with arguments rather than disseditating an individual. You're saying that we've been discussing 17 hours today and we're not discussing other topics that much. We are now discussing as much as the Rules of Procedure provide for this. If you do not agree that members of the group can apply for interpretation so long, I suggest that you amend the Rules of Procedure. But even though you can see how many hours will go into the air, you've reported the minutes of the coalition partners to discuss today, then it would be best if you would all respond to the words, finish the meeting early and go to that point, there's a new session that's important to you. The debate actually went, as I have already said, totally into some waters that don't talk about anything that we should be talking about today, some calendars appear, some musicians are listed, apples and pears are actually mixed. As far as Thomson is concerned, we must be aware that some countries have not banned his concerts, but have banned him from entering the countries and also from the Republic of Slovenia would expect ministers to come with laws to the National Assembly, which will ban such individuals from entering our country, not only to ban certain concerts. One of the arguments for defending Mr Hojs is what this government has done. Apparently, individual parties specialize in their ministers and praise what their ministers have done. Perhaps it would be good to mention every time that they have made more than 4 billion minus, only as much as was given to humans. As I have already said, the responsibility that Minister Hojs is sitting here today at all is on the MPs of the coalition who gave him the vote that he was elected, as is the responsibility of the entire Government headed by the President of the Government. I believe that you will vote today that there will continue to be a minister, not voted by the President of the Government or by the individual party of the coalition, but voted by the Members in person by name and name, and in fact this will be written down forever.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert has the word to prepare Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. Just got a call from my friend Han in the back. I'll start with him, too. I love listening to my colleague Han, I have to say, and I like to talk to him sometimes, but today I must say that Violet Tomić orenk needs to get stuck, in his own words, because you've outdone her in her playing skills. Congratulations. Congratulations. But I would only remind you of one important sentence you had in your debate and it is very important to me. In fact, you said, "I believe in state law." Yeah. If that's true, then we wouldn't be able to sign this interpolation. Then we would not be able to sign under this interpolation and we would not be able to vote on it. I'll tell you why. The key to what the SD initially built this interpolation – this is also important for citizens and citizens – is a concert by Croatian singer Thompson. I will not talk about his music, I will not talk about his texts, but I know that you probably hear his music when you walk in Croatia. That's a fact. I hope Croatia remains our friendly country. I hope so. Because today, in some ways, I was a little concerned. But see, Minister Hojs was not a minister at the time when he wanted to organize this concert in Slovenia. That was during your government. That's when it happened. What has now been decided is merely a consequence of all of this. And the fact is, Minister Hoys didn't make any decisions. It was decided by the court responsible for that. Officials followed the court's decision. Is it the rule of law or is it not the rule of law? You have to seriously explain this to me. Because it was a court decision. Now let's move on. But when you're in SD, first of all, I have to say here to Matjaž the German, somehow you've found that this is a larifari, that it's completely depressed, and that one big fiasco, especially Matjaža the German has a big panic. Here, Matjaž the German laughs. That also suggests trouble, I hope you know. And panic [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u175	May I have your attention, please, and don't fall into the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u176	Panic affected him so much that he began to make moves that were problematic and not only politically but generally almost dangerous. Because when you start one important committee, I will specifically say that the Knovs Commission is using it for its own interests, half of its personal interests, especially client interests, but of course there is a problem here. The problem is that I, too, agree with my colleague Han that it is right for politicians to be at different levels. You said earlier that you are a socialdemocrat – nice. I hope that you will soon become a modern social-democrat and will somehow accept communism as unacceptable. But let's leave time, that's your decision. We are Slovenian Democrats, we have our views, we are against all forms of totalitarianism, and I hope that you, as leader of the Group of Members, will listen well to what is actually going on. I believe that you, as indeed some reputation in your client, will act as well. Let's go from the top. In the introduction to interpretation, Matjaž Germany said: Aleš Hojs gives illegal insight into classified information, instead of the state prosecutor directing the police in proceedings, as Knovs also notes. As Knovs notes. Dear colleagues, dear citizens and citizens. Knovs didn't find that out. These are the findings of Matjaž the German. Knovs has not adopted any position and no decision in this regard. This is the only truth and only fact, and Matjaž the German knows it well. But the panic was so great that he felt it necessary that the documents he had obtained on behalf of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, or Knovs, would also be known by the citizens I was talking about, did not inform Knovs members, but published them on social networks. I have a lot of respect for those members of your party who run or have boards, but I've never seen anything like it. Can you imagine? On behalf of the members of Knovs, you get the documents and you don't show them to the members, you don't get to know the members, but you publish them on social media. We are going in order to make it clear to people how this matter was going on. Meeting of Knovs with a public agenda item The impact of the Minister of the Interior on the work of overseeing the security service in the implementation of supervisory measures. This meeting was originally thought out about a week ago. Matjaž German moved it the day before the interpolation. Among other things, he interpreted this by not having all the members present. Since when is it necessary for all members to be present for the meeting? Can't the National Assembly work if not all Members are present? The majority of those present are needed and would be provided, namely, only one member, Jerca Korča of the LMŠ party, has been excused. If this were his constant practice, I would respect it, for in some parts I respect his work. But that is not the case, for two days before this session we had a meeting where there were quite a few members that were not present, but there were no problems. However, there have been difficulties in this meeting and it has been postponed on the day prior to the interpretation, with a point on the agenda of the Ministry of the Interior on the work of the supervised security service in the implementation of the control measures. And look at the fraction, at this meeting, not some day earlier, not a few days earlier, but at the meeting itself, we were familiar with the letter, concerning the Opinion on the guidelines and obligations to carry out police duties in the detection and investigation of crimes. We were a little surprised about what was going on, and then we find out, the president said nicely that he had asked or requested or asked for an opinion. Legal opinion, that's kind of what he said. He received this opinion, and Mr Miroslav Zaberl also invited him to this meeting, and he does not hide it, but, look, where we will get a legal opinion on the agenda, we did not discuss it. We also did not decide who would draw up this legal opinion or where we would ask for legal opinions. I said yesterday that many times it is: three lawyers, five opinions. But we got one. It is also misleading that colleague Matjaž German said that this opinion was prepared by the Faculty of Security Sciences. That's not true. The Faculty of Security has indeed received your request – which, by the way, you have also submitted on my behalf, even though I did not know about it – but they have clearly written that they leave the matter to their external associate. That legal opinion, you know, doesn't have any press of any college. It has only the name and surname of the author of this document and, as we have already said today, the fragment, this is Miroslav Zaberl, a close associate of the SD. Of course, I was thinking about it myself, and why he didn’t just call his phone directly and get his legal opinion. But you know, then the credibility of this document would be so much less. But look, it's not a credible document for me, it can't be because he was prepared for this interpretation and because his sole purpose was to discredit Minister Hojs. But that's not the only thing. Comrade Matjaž German, and we can go and look at the magnetograms, said that he also addressed these requirements to his own hand or for his own needs elsewhere, at his own request. But you know, then I see in the documents that this is not your own request, but that it was again a request on behalf of the commission. For example, one thing he's published, I don't even know how many of these documents there are, and that scares me, because documents are being collected on my behalf, and I'm not familiar with them. For example, one of these was sent to the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. The document was sent to 7. 9. Interesting. Just before the interpolation. The D.A. really tried, and within two days, she gave an answer. But you know, this document refers to this very session that we had yesterday, and we didn't get this document. Why not? What was he hiding from? What's going on, mate Matjaž German? Has Knovs become your commission? You're working on the system: Knovs, is that me? That's not how it works, fellow SD! These times were over when one political option could have done everything it had in mind. However, we must respect certain standards. In this letter, I also find a very interesting part of the answer, when we don't even know, you know, we don't even know what those requests said. What is it, exactly? We don't have the contents. But I was disturbed by one part that the prosecution wrote down, among other things, because I am reading these letters myself, given that you do not know what was sent to them. But listen to this, “Your request can only be considered as an application for access to the files. ” [[…]] Your request can only be considered as an application for access to the files! Dear German colleague, colleagues and colleagues, Knovs did not make any decision to look into any writings! “ However, it is not possible to conclude from the contents of your request that Knovs have a legitimate or legal interest in looking into a file or file, which makes it impossible for him to look into a file or file. [[…]] Your Honor, is there anything going on in this national council? Someone in my name, too, and this should be taken care of by all the members of Knovs and by all of you colleagues and colleagues, because this can happen to you tomorrow. In my name, the U.S. Attorney's Office sends letters saying, on my behalf, that I want to look into the files, which is, of course, not possible and illegal. So, what I'm getting at is I'm asking questions about views that are illegal. With letters like that, someone makes me laugh. And colleague Matjaž Han, seriously, I am addressing you, this is a violation of all borders. There is something else to conclude or to conclude. It is true that no conclusions — just a little — were adopted, and it is true that no conclusions could be reached. In fact, the conclusions proposed did not go to the vote. My colleague Matjaž Germany, congratulations on the manoeuvre, on the business manoeuvre where you said you would put the conclusions into study to the Legal and Legal Service because you do not know if they are in accordance with the content. But at least this time, citizens should think for themselves. Once again; the agenda item was the impact of the Ministry of the Interior on the work of the supervised security service in the implementation of supervisory measures. This was based on guidance and mandatory instructions provided by the Minister. Among other things, there are many things in there: to review the legislation to see if all the staffing and organisational conditions for the work of individual bodies, such as the National Investigation Office, should be checked by the Director-General of Police to verify the legal provisions defining the work of the National Investigation Office and, of course, to propose amendments, where appropriate, to ensure the effective functioning of the National Investigation Office. Of course, I don't have much time, or I would read it all, but they say to my colleagues that I should read it, that it's very important. I'm really gonna read it. See, the Minister added the following: “The Ministry of the Interior estimates that, on the basis of existing internal and external controls on work or in connection with the work of the National Investigation Office, it is necessary to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of their investigators and to ensure a professional and impartial investigation into the most difficult crimes.” Comrade Han, you'll agree with that, won't you? You said before, there's no end to any of this. Look, here's one of the positive directions. “The Director-General of the Police is obliged to take all necessary organisational and human resources measures to ensure the full impartial functioning of the National Investigation Office.” This is certainly the interest of all of us too, is it not? It's necessary to have expertise if we already have a National Investigation Office. If it's one political hand, then let's end it. Next, “The Director-General of Police should review the legal provisions defining the work of the National Investigation Office and propose amendments, if necessary, to ensure the effective functioning of the National Investigation Office”. Is there anyone in this room who disagrees? Next, “The Director-General of Police should verify the provisions of all internal and other regulations defining the work of the National Investigation Office and the relationship with the State Prosecutor’s Office and, if necessary, make or propose amendments to ensure the effective functioning of the Investigation Office”. Can you believe it? The Minister allowed himself to make a proposal to the Director-General of Police to propose regulations and amendments, if necessary. Get out of here! What an overstatement of powers. Common sense in this country will say, right, Minister. That's what we need. Finally, we need to step on the criminals, the big ones, on our toes. Enough of those who have been searched for stolen salami and, of course, no one who has done millions of damage to this country. That's right. The Director-General of the Police, taking into account the legal provisions, here are many of them to examine also what has been happening in the pre-trial procedure with certain cases, in which many crimes have certainly been committed. So it's not just a few cases or some criminal potentials, it's a lot of them. “The implementation of the guidelines must be reported in writing to me by the Director-General of the Police at least once a month and orally, at my request or my own discretion.” I say, Minister, you're still very good at giving them one month because we really need an effective police force if we're going to move anything in this country. On the basis of this problematic document, but only for Matjaž the German, because nothing was adopted, there was nothing, no conclusions, even on your part were proposed, I do not know why, if you are so sure that it was illegal. Nothing. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Modern Centre and New Slovenia have proposed concrete conclusions on the basis of these documents. Firstly, Knovs supports the exceptional supervision of the performance of police duties and powers at the National Investigation Office. Knovs supports the exceptional supervision of the protection and handling of classified data at the National Investigation Office. Knovs supports the guidelines and mandatory instructions of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to carry out police tasks in detecting and investigating the crimes required, in particular in the areas of economy, corruption and organised crime carried out by the National Investigation Office. Knovs calls on Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to ensure adequate conditions for the legitimate functioning of the NPU. And as a fifth time, Knovs calls on President Knovs Matjaž German to stop the abuse of Knovs for political purposes. Of course, we should not have voted on these conclusions. That's why we don't even know if we'd be accepted or not. But the fact is, we weren't even allowed to vote on them. So much for that. I'll finish. Of course, I can't support this interpretation because it doesn't have any basis and it's ridiculous. I believe you can do more for the social-democrats. You can do better than that. But I feel bad because I appreciate my colleague Matjaž German for allowing himself another fiasco: the Football Association of Slovenia, the European elections, and now the interpretation. The return of the Primorska. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Procedural first, Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u178	The president, the vice president, I apologize. All well and good, but only for the public, we have an interpellation today against the minister and it would be good to stick to at least the topic of interpolation, Vice-President. Because the lady was talking about problems, about knovs, conclusions and so on. On this topic of Knovs, respect for the Rules of Procedure, in order to have the majority of the opposition in Knovs, it would be good for us to do one big topic in this National Assembly, in order to respect at least the legislation. I'd like to ask you, Vice President, to direct this debate and direct it primarily to interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u179	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Otherwise, I would suggest that you read again those 19 pages of interpolation and talk about the content you have submitted, not everything else. Interpellation is made up of: three quarters of the pages refer to Thomson, and then you have the final introduction of Thomson, tweeting, cadres, and then the ending with Thomson. [[Incomprehensible]] So I suggest that you stick to what you have put in your debates. If I understand the content of the interpolation correctly, it's a purely ideological topic. Here you go, Mr. Han, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u180	Jože, we've been in the National Assembly since 2004, you can't play the vice-president once in this seat, I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u181	My colleague Han, I'm sorry, I was just warning you because you warned me how others should discuss that the rest of you would discuss it later in the context of the content of the interpretation. So if one of them is allowed, then we have to let everyone. Now, there is a debate of 10 hours and even more, and I suggest that you close in this style. Matey Matjaž German, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u182	Dear Vice-President, I hope that we will no longer listen to you in this cycle than we do on this side. With great pleasure, very short, because there are certain things I really need to explain. I see one key difference between the interpretation of Mr Hojs and that made by Mrs Anja Bah Žibert above me, that we clearly read from the legislation, from the legislative basis, while Anja Bah Žibert did not mention one article of the Rules of Procedure of Knovs, in order to overstep it in any way in its operation. Except for this pathetic – I will quickly explain what this is about – I think that Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has never heard of the 27th and 28th Rules of Procedure of Knovs, which has nothing to do with the addition of the Rules of Procedure, which we use in other committees and commissions, where it clearly defines the role of President Knovs, what he may or may not begin. When Mrs Anja Bah Žibert approaches the public and tells me which articles I have violated, then her words will become material. Until then, it's just some dramatic roles that have nothing to do with anything. So it's how we get who we're getting from who we're getting it from that is all in the hands of the president, and that's how I got it done in front of me. Matthew Tonin, that's how the mag started in front of me. Branko Grimes. We explained everything to her yesterday, but she has a role to play for her audience. I'll be very brief. As has already been said, I have clearly explained on the basis of the proposed conclusions proposed by the majority coalition, by the way. For the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia or its National Assembly, we are in a situation where Knovs, who should be the committee in which the opposition has a majority in addition to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. For the first time, we don't have most of you! But this has nothing to do with the decisions we've made. It is clear that, on the basis of the agreement adopted by the National Assembly in 2018, it is an agreement on the operation, the agreement on the vocation and management of working bodies meetings on the basis of the rules of procedure and established parliamentary practice, where we have decided on the basis of Article 18, to put forward a proposal for a decision by the opposition or a coalition, where it wished to state in its decision that it calls on the President of Matjaž Germany to stop the abuses of Knovs, this was proposed by the majority coalition – attention, in the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services! – to give this decision a simple overview of the Legal and Legal Service. Why? Because I am telling you today that the Commission does not have these powers, because if I had them, I would have ruled in the vote that Minister Hojs acted unlawfully and illegally or overstepped his powers. I should not have given this as President on the basis of all the information I have. But Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert is explaining everything in her own way. When you come to the President of the National Assembly with clear articles, you can also withdraw from the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, in addition to Furs, the Statistical Office, the NPU, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Then, according to you, Slovenia will be an even more democratic country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u183	Thank you very much. First of all, a comment, colleague Anja Bah Žibert operated on documents in her discussion. So in this part I see no need to intervene in any way in its debate because it stood because it was documented. If they don't hold these documents, you can comment because you're a proponent. However, I would ask that you do not speak highly of your colleagues. What someone didn't, looked, saw, knew, read, and so on. Take the documents, discuss them, on the other hand, and we can get to the end. A replica? A replica of a German colleague. Here you go, Anya Bah Žibert. He's been discussing it. He's having a debate. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u184	My friend German, you can make a sacrifice out of yourself now. Don't make yourself a victim, well, please! After all, the results speak for themselves, each one must stand on his own feet and on his own place that comes to him. But one more time. You were getting the documents. Like the president. On behalf of Knovs for a specific agenda item. Is that right? Why didn't you give them to us? [[advertising from the hall]] That's not true. That's not true! We didn't get the documents at the time of the commission itself. And today, yesterday, you gave us one on social networks and please don't jump into my word. But that's not how it works. Documents, one by e-club, one by itself, inviting guests and so on. That's not how you do it. Look, here's your panic and abuse. If I ran the Health Committee like this, they'd take me out. I didn't say I was changing you. I've just told you how you run the committee and that the committee is not meant to deal politically with your political opponents. That's all. And everything I've said, the whole timer's still holding.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Proposer Matjaž German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u186	I'll be very short, I promise. Second year, you're a member of the House of Honor, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. We could know that there is an instrument with us called an e-club, and there are documents that are intended for you, accessible. Let me tell you one more thing. Yesterday you violated Rule 14 of Rules of Procedure of Knovs. But I'm not gonna tell you what that is. Thank you. Look for yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Duck. You weren't to whom? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, I hope so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u188	Sure. The ones you forgot, I was a member of Knovs for three years. Even more. Longtime secretary Knovs said, “Dr. Baby, you're the first one to read everything." I went also, for example, to review the Court of Auditors at the time of the first Janša government. That should be public. I can't talk about it. I can't talk about it. I can't talk about it. Further, we cannot read Knov's magnetogram simply because if the session is closed, is – what, 30, 40 years old, colleague Bevk? You are more in these waters – this is actually closed and inaccessible. Why did I get out of Knovs already? 'Cause Brane Grimes was abusing him, that's Knovs, that's me. He lived on a lady because he did not dose properly, as Janša told him, Iranian stories, but at the same time he forgot another story when the Italian mafia in NKBM was laundering money there from 2007 to 2018. I'm not allowed to speak in public anymore. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, you have abused what Matjaž says, you are talking about some things with closed sessions that you should not talk about, and from these conclusions you have read, you are obviously not clear on the coalition role of Knovs. These conclusions, how you praise the indemnity here, we made a little joke, and Janša Hojs, Mr Hojs, they belong mainly to the Committee on Home Affairs and Public Administration. Security-Intelligence Control is a very serious matter, so I'm gonna say what I have at the end of my language, we're fucking with this, and we're not. 2015 We knew what happened to the arbitration, we also knew who got the equipment to the Croats, we were in Matjaž – did we carry it out? No, we didn't. Something was carried by Tonin when he presided over Knovs when Grims Knovs presided, information you wanted flew out of Knovs all the time. There's gonna be a huge broom to buy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Dude, that wasn't a replica, but it was a debate. In future, I would like to point out that you are holding that replica is a replica, not a debate, or I will give you the measures provided for in the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on. Member Marko Bandelli has the floor. And after him, he'll get the word Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u190	Thank you, President, for your word. First of all, I'm interested in one thing here. We've been here since 10:00 today, now it's ten and a half hours. It would be nice if the President of the Government showed up at this interview because we're already interpreting his minister. He wasn't a minute, not at first, no matter what he had to do. Whether it's interesting or not, we don't care where he went, but he should be here at least one minute to show up here. Otherwise, I have no desire to see him, but it would be better for him to be here for respect for this House. Dear Minister Hoys! Not only am I wondering, but look, you're probably wondering what I'm doing here. The same thing I think your SDS colleagues are wondering is that I'm not also talking to coalition colleagues who are wondering what you're doing here, but what's the biggest question we're all asking here, what are you doing here, what are you doing here, which you've publicly and officially resigned. I mean, it's a farce. What are you even doing here? We've talked about this 15 times, but it's not bad to repeat it to people who are looking to understand where we've fallen. Are we still a serious country? Is there anything else serious about Parliament? Or you're resigning, you're irrevocably giving up, and you're showing up in Parliament. And then we broke up and we canceled the interpolation, and then you stayed in position and now you show up in the interpolation Parliament. So much so that people understand. But well, now you're here, interlocked, retreated, and that's why we're gonna get it to a place. I'd like to ask you a question. You could have stepped down, really stepped down, and then Janez Janša would have run for office again, and we'd have a hearing, and we'd have been elected because you have a majority. That would be the farce of a farce to be re-elected minister. It could be. Wouldn't it be more elegant than spitting all up on some things and what I don't know or anything. I mean, anyway, look, SMC and Desus are on your side, as we know, they would vote in any way for you, because as you have a coalition contract, even though I think you're holding them in check with what kind of thing, because I don't believe they're like that, they don't understand where we are and what kind of situation we're in. So, there must be some background here. And it wasn't for free that the investigation was done back then on the cover, so I think here you have quite a different grip that they're there. But that's my opinion. Look at that. Allow the president just one thing. [[…]] [[sound recording]] /preliminary sound recording: "Because this political responsibility is, of course, on the Minister, let me inform you at this moment that I gave my resignation to the Prime Minister of Home Affairs a good hour ago. About 9 a.m. in the morning, Mr. Travner, Director General of Police, informed me of his resignation, and of course...«/ Well, I mean, it doesn't matter if I move on. Those are your words, aren't they, Minister? Those are your words. I'm just one of the thirty-five videos that's up there, testifying to your resignation. So we didn't invent your resignation, you know? You made it up. It was your initiative. We've all been listening now. Was it your word or not? These were your words, your resignation, “I am continually giving up”. That's it. I will continue to quote you on what you then said, because it doesn't matter that we continue to listen to what everyone can hear from home. This was your statement, “The resignation should further encourage all parties of the coalition in the work of democracy, for the depoliticisation of the police, for a different prosecution”. Those are your words. And right here is the catch of everything. Right here is what it is. Depoliticization of the police. That's the point, you know? I will continue to explain to you why this is essential. You must have used that word a little recklessly, but you'll understand what it's all about. The Council of the Police Union, Minister, is clearly blackmail and intimidation. You. We've read this over and over again. So the union itself makes it clear to you that you're blackmailing and intimidating them. Even before yesterday, it was on your Siolo. I tell your Siolo, because he's no longer ours, he's no longer state, he's only become a client. It was one of the party trumpets, but let's do it. You have, of course, rejected all these accusations and have thrown back, not that the rewards have been paid by the previous minister, your words, with some – beware, you have used these words – by the cow's trades. That's what you said. Have you forgotten? I remember you. Cow trades. You know, here to think a little, all that, right? How you can perform is unacceptable. Minister, you didn't even want to meet with the police union. You didn't want to meet with them! You know, here we are, aren't we, who have a heart in social life; we have a heart in social life, we, here, have a heart in social life. You probably don't, because you have different ideologies, we have a heart in social and justice. Not on the edge of the totalitarian system or any regime system, it's not with our politics, our ideology. And to us, because we have a heart in social life, we think it's perfectly normal to say that we talk to the unions in any sector, everywhere. But not that we talk to them, intimidate them, and I don't know what else, manipulate them one way or another. I'll accidentally do one round here, I'll say one expression, by the way, in Youth today, Great patriotism is often the best cover to promote personal interests. Hojs has gained at least 189 000 euros in assets. I didn't say it. It says here. I just read it. Now I'm not going to argue, but just that that's true, I hope that you, as Minister of the Interior now, would be right, now I don't know how it would work to investigate yourself if that were true. [[…]] Already in this way because you have changed completely all institutions up at the top. Depoliticization of the police – that's your expression. If you depoliticized the police, how are you going to investigate yourself, if you've really come to an asset gain of 189 000 euros. I'm just reading, I'm not saying it, but I think that would just be a new reason to resign. With reservations, of course, because a man doesn't open an envelope, but he does. Do you understand? You mentioned and talked about corruption earlier. Do you remember who Diana Djudjic is? I mean, with what words you come out about some rights, some corrupt factors and things, which, when you're alone — you, your client — have used some black fund that we don't even know where it is or what it is. I was wondering if he probably stopped here, too. Or if he didn't stop if there's any epilogues out of it. As a Member, I wonder who I have the right to ask whether there will be any further progress or whether there will be no epilogue here as in any other matter. Or we're talking about a financier from Hungary and all that. I want to know if there's a committee here that's working on it. [[…]] But it's not, it's just one branch. These are other problems that have arisen. I'll remind you of something else, Minister. Your mouth was full of these migrants on the SDS. Because when I was in the previous government, there wasn't a day when you didn't have migrants by the mouth. What the Charles government doesn't do, can't stop migrants, can't stop anything, can't do anything about it. We have to take the article to get the soldiers to come, and I don't know what, because migrants are every day. Do you know what I'm gonna tell you? Since you've been in the government, there have been twice as many migrants crossing the border as we were. Let me tell you something; not only do they not cross the Croatian border – and the Minister, listen to me, because you probably know that. I know because I've seen it with my own eyes. The vans from the Croatian border go directly to Brd, to Goriskih hills and across vineyards walk across. There's dozens of them here every day. What are you doing with these? And then we wonder why Italy will close the border. It's no wonder you're incompetent! You're a completely incompetent minister on this and this can't happen anymore. You've always had so many migrants in your mouth, and we hope you'll be so competent that you'll stop because we're incompetent, we haven't been able to stop these things. I was hoping that as a minister – and as your assistant, the secretary of state, who also had a full mouth of migrants all the time. Now we see that they don't just cross the border, they drive across our country and they come across the country and they go pretty well through the hills where they want to go. And you know this is what's going on. You know this is happening because I know you do. What have you done now? It's also an interpolation. What does "interpellation" mean, Minister? To see if you are suitable for this place or if you are not suitable for this place. Excuse me, Minister, I have every right to question and express all my doubts. Do you understand what I'm saying? Not that they just cross the border to run across the border and then hunt them down, I don't know where. The vans are transported all over Slovenia because they know that there is a weak point because there are vineyards, macadamias, where no one knows where these paths are going across the border. I get phone numbers from everyone because they know I'm a Primorec too, if I say anything, but there's a coastal MP in your ranks. What happened to that? I'm asking, I'm just asking because this thing is weird. Will you let me doubt it? I'm on my way, Minister. Threats. Do you remember what was the point of my resignation? Bullshit, stupidity, pure stupidity. Okay? Nonsense. In contrast to what you've done so far, you should step down 135 times. Look, I'll tell you exactly. One of my banal, idiotic sentences I wrote down to all the saints because I didn't hide anything, but it wasn't a reason, you know. There were other reasons. But let's let it stop. That was what the media put out, and people still think it's wrong today. But what did you do? You are an independent expert analysis of job evaluation – and you know what I'm talking about – used to blackmail the police union. I didn't say it, you know. It says. I read what I read. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u191	Just a moment, please. I also ask representatives of the Government for discipline. Just like the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u192	You used a practical independent professional analysis to evaluate jobs for some purpose and threatened them. And you've also informed them that if the government confirms the findings of this analysis, the police will no longer receive the allowance paid. Is that true or not? That's the information I have. I'll wait for you to give your answer. That famous supplement is 15 million at their disposal for border work for an increase in the amount of work. I think it was about controlling migration. And that's where you threatened them. Wait! I said an innocent sentence and I resigned and I accepted my responsibility, and you have already resigned and we are still hanging in Parliament here. You've resigned. We can only listen once more. But, look, this is it! But Janez Janša doesn't open the envelope, you say. Those are your words. He didn't open the envelope. But we've all proven to you before that it doesn't matter the envelope after the ZUP when the letter comes, it's the letter, it's here. That's why the police union was transformed, if I'm well aware, into a strike committee. I heard something about it. You don't know! You know, four times now you've told me and you've denied and you said you don't know – because that's what I'm gonna come up with. Yes! You don't know, you said! You know, a minister who doesn't know what he has to do there if he doesn't know? I'm sorry. [[Incomprehensible]] Look, reverend Minister Hoys, exchange at the top of the police force, humane radio, we'll say home, everyone who isn't ours. All of them! All right, let's go, You said on the Target, I only replaced the General – among the quotes – the Chief and then he made it, which is that you didn't do anything. Oh, please! The one you put in charge, you give him the command and let him betray all the others who are under it. This is also what you did: replacing it with the criminal police and, above all, the National Investigation Office. Everybody. But look at the fragment, they all had an SDS card! And if they have a card, they're right next to you. You know what surprised me the other day? Those days, I got really surprised. I told myself what you could afford. How is that possible in our country? This was mentioned to the two Italian senators the other day. They said it couldn't be. For CEO Furs, a woman – or I don't know who she is – you put yours on a repressive body like Furs, give your member to the SDS. [[…]] Oh, that's a shame. How will an honest woman work here? This one will control everything else on purpose. I'm sure! Does that seem fair to you citizens? That, as we've heard before, almost all of them had a card. All tops of all institutions. Statistical Office, Furs, everything. Where did that come from? Does that seem normal to you? Not to me, excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Not to me! Directions before criminal proceedings. One more interesting thing. When I'm deputy, there, this director of the crime police, Slavko Kors – whether he's Koros, I don't know exactly what he's called. He has announced that from now on, politicians will direct forecasting procedures. What happened to him? Yeah, he got kicked in the ass, by the way. He was at work. Because politics directs predictive procedures! You probably don't know that either. Basically, you've replaced everything that's possible with the replacement. And then you – and here I will come to this expression that you used – talk about the depoliticization of the police, where you put exactly and only the political people who are from your party! We're talking police depoliticization. That was your argument. It's pure politicization. Control – piloting, piloting everything. Minister, you were irrevocably dismissed at the time because of this house investigation, because of the security device supply affair. And this from public sources you are right at the end, but here I am curious to see – you probably don't know that either, but you can answer that. If it's true or not, when Charc's government was still in the past week, you were meeting with Anton Zakroška. This is the Director of the Department of Freight Reserves; the one who signed all the supply contracts anyway. I'm curious, at the time, you were still the great boss of New 24, what your role was to date him. What was your role? Do you know why I'm asking that? Because it's very interesting, as a colleague here said before, I don't know which one, when the government was confirmed, in two hours you switched everything, all the heads, everything possible. And then you hope from the SDS to talk about where the deep country is! You have a deep country, because it's clear where else the deep country is, if you've changed everything in two hours. So you've had this prepared before, you've had it all prepared, because if you haven't, you wouldn't be able to replace it so quickly. Yeah, you do so much damage in one month that you don't even know how much. But I'm really curious. Dear Minister, you were the chairman of the board of directors at the time – I do not know what position you had, mainly the great boss of Nova 24 – and you met with Anton Zakroška. It's documented that you've been seeing each other since you said so yourself, that's what you said, so I ask you, you've made this public. You've probably already considered business, I think, probably who's going to do something, because that's what we're going to find out. One more thing that pleases me, because I have to say that I'm sorry, I have nothing against my colleague Beznik, but this is about you. On April 20th, my Minister, I asked you a question from the Members, because probably our colleagues didn't see it in here, or what he saw, probably everyone saw it from the SDS. I gave you a couple of questions because they were very interesting because they're connected to what's happening here today because I'm talking about ignorance or fictitious ignorance. But, uh, 17. 4. I have asked the Minister of the Interior a written question concerning the incident of State Secretary Franz Breznik, whose number is 2. 4. When using the service vehicle, the police stopped speeding and in the process was found to have been under the influence of alcohol. It happens. How is it possible, Minister, that you didn't know that the police were treating the Secretary of State — you didn't know — under the influence of alcohol? Did the police find other banned substances besides alcohol in the blood — I asked you? Because he knows where he went. You need to know a little bit. But based on Article 12, you answered me here. But you know what you said to me – I'd say very harshly, I can't because we're in the National Assembly – you told me that this paper could be used for something other than what I'm reading here. You replied — I will quickly say that people understand because I will not read this whole thing. Since there were no dead, because I do not know what was under Article 12, in a specific case, the police ruled that it was not such an event, drastic, and did not inform the Minister of the procedure with the Secretary of State. Who are you gonna lie to anyway? We know it's not true. How can you say something like that? If you haven't been in contact with the Secretary of State at that time or what was – 14 days, not two hours! 14 days, then he comes out. And you, what do you do, what do you say? Yeah, I didn't know. I didn't know what was happening to him. I heard it from the media. Mr. Secretary, these are lies. You've been lying. You must have lied. I don't think you've seen it. I don't believe it. No one here believes you didn't know. I'm asking you, if that's true. Because that's your answer, you know. That's your answer: I didn't know. Then keep talking to me. Pursuant to Article 13, the Director-General of Police must report regularly on the work of the police. Wait. Didn't the police director report to you? Doesn't it matter that your Secretary of State has been stopped? Yeah, I don't know! Then, it also says that the driver agreed and signed the minutes, which was necessary and so on. It's all right! And you know what you do? You, then, Minister – I mean, this is the maximum that it is – instead of admitting and saying, yes, look, it's a war which is, you ask the police if the proper procedure has been done. I think so! You don't say, Secretary of State, you shit him, or you do what you do, you step back, whatever it takes. No, you tell the police to check if the proper procedure has been done! Where are we? Have you been informed of his visit to Derby? That was my official question. That's everywhere, that's what you all have in your hands. These are official questions and your official answers. There is nothing to hide; a company that is under scrutiny due to the unjustified production and trafficking of illicit drugs. Were you informed of his visit? Do you know what you said? “I was not familiar with the visit of the Secretary of State at Derby’s company, ” fair and square. [[…]] It can be true, we can believe it. “I learned from the media that Derby is in the pre-trial procedure because of the suspicion of criminal service.” [[…]] How did you learn from the media if Nova24 is the main media in Slovenia – if we listen to you – and the main media listens to you 0.3 percent. But how come you didn't know what this was all about? “The National Bureau of Investigation half-ways conducts the forecasting procedure,” writes. So again, Minister, you didn't know what this was all about. So your Secretary of State never consults with you. He went by his own hand to one company that's in the forecasting process. I think so! We don't understand what this is about. How can he go there to ask the sponsor of the onion and banana. Please! Please, come on. Then – was the visit of the Secretary of State linked to the company's investigation? Because that's important.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u193	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u194	Please. I've been listening to you for nine hours. These are important matters because here is the discreditation of the minister. “Police are completely impartial, objective and independent in carrying out police tasks.” That's what you wrote. Hey, look out, look out! Watch out. Those are your words. “Police are completely impartial, objective and independent in carrying out police tasks.” Why did you let everyone down? Why did you say you had to depoliticize the police earlier? If she's impartial, objective and independent? Don't you remember what you say or don't remember how you do it? This is completely contradictory to your statements. That's why I'm asking you. You talk once because it's worth it to you once and for all. I was also interested when I told you whether this lobbyist contact – because it was a lobbyist contact, not that the Secretary of State was going there – was not reported to the Commission to prevent corruption. You know what's coming out of this? That you were fully aware of everything, or probably, not that you were not familiar with it, but that you answered that you did not know. Which means you have no idea what's going on with your closest associates, but you wanted to influence the work of the police. That's the point now. Dear Minister, I don't have much time left, but this is what I really wanted to ask you and honestly; what I just said to you and read to you is all public, all in the media. I didn't make anything up. I just took it. If there are truths or untruths, I will listen to you and listen to you. Here is officially my question of the Member State which has been raised. Officially! With an answer, an official response. Of course I wasn't happy, but then I said, let's stop because it's better that way. And then I'm not going to talk about the frame-up anymore, because others have already said what you've been curving out. Do you know what was most beautiful? I'm talking about your government. I'm not just talking about you. I'm talking about SDS because it's not right. But, I mean, last night, we also listened to the Target, how literally Minister Tonin was dragging himself through the sands, if you say so. To you, economic politicians, one of the main points of point 9 of point 2, of their programme, I will tell you exactly what it is. They did so in every way — and what does Minister Tonin do in the end? Your own vice-president, the vice-president of the party who was already in an affair over Glinščica, because of those false references because they lied about it, he lied, you made him CEO of Dars. You. Is that what you think? You think we're all stupid in this country? It was the main motto, politics out of the economy. Do you think others would do that? That you would be the opposition and that this position would do something like that? That one SD or that we would have Alenka appoint our vice president of the party and replace the director with one of our own? You'd die, you'd fall down so you could destroy this situation. Do you know what you're doing? What's the harm done to our country? There are certain functions that have nothing to do with politics, which we should understand. It's like RTV. My proposal has always been, get out of the programming board, the whole policy out, the whole policy out, the experts out there. I'm about to finish, President. I'll finish with the question. Dear Minister, so, by the way, one question, so, for you. It seems in the halls that you — but I don't believe — should give a resignation when this interpolation is over. I'm interested, but we know that even if you make a resignation statement, we'll see you again another time here. [[…]] There's no possibility. You know what? [[…]] If he can't open the envelope first, tell him, we in our office have a good knife, one that cuts nicely, to open envelopes. Maybe he doesn't have it. We've got a good one. [[…]] You know, we just want something in the SAB, Alenka Bratushek Party. Like everyone else, we just want something to come up with what we expect you to do here, with a high head, because this is what we want in Parliament and wants the whole of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor forward, I would just say that about 90 per cent of what has been said in this debate is not in the interpretation; not in the text or in the annexes. We are not talking about the Government's interpretation, we are not talking about some other matters, we are not talking about the key topic is Thompson, we are talking about tweeting, but you mentioned a few sentences, although the staffing, but also more broadly, you mentioned, or you blinked at the activation or not the activation of article 37a, and that is that. [[…]] Before I put my word forward, who wants a word? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Breznik, what do you want? Procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Comrade Bandelli, now I'm going to explain a few things to you. I hope you're sober here today at the meeting. I hope you are. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u197	My friend Breznik, it is a matter of procedure for me and I must decide on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You don't have a replica. You have no argument.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u198	Madam Vice President, I just want to say three things. The first fact is [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u199	Mr. Breznik, I warn you, a violation of the Rules of Procedure [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u200	I have a procedural proposal, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u201	Yes, please, just [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u202	This procedural proposal is that, as Vice-President, you are aware that the KPK has found that in my so-called lobbyist contact or media pogroms led by the media, in particular 24ur.com, POP TV and Channel A, this is the medium that Rastoder financed for a long period of years for 120 000 euros a year, and when that money dried up when Mr Vrabec said that he would literally avenge this company, then the funeral began. Now look, Mr. Vice President. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u203	This is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u204	On the table of one member of the Jewish Parliament is even a link with Derby's address. [[…]] It's very interesting today. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u205	Comrade Breznik, please finish this, this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u206	Yes, and my procedural proposal is to alert my colleague Bandellija that the matter is against me. [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u207	Please do this in the debate, not with an incorrect procedural proposal. It's the same for everything. I've already announced it. The Secretary of State has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u208	Thank you, Vice President. I don't know, Mr Bandelli, if you don't mind, I would answer you, even though I don't know if it makes sense, because you said you don't believe me anyway, so whatever I say, you probably don't believe me. First, I will say that, of course, the effectiveness of the police depends on how many illegal migrants we capture and not how many we do not capture. So this year, ten thousand 223 illegal migrants, 173 of whom are being held in prison, were currently detained by 97, i.e. 97 smugglers. I'm not happy with this number. I didn't. I think we should do more. However, I suggest you make a comparison of how many have you captured in your government and how many have you imprisoned in your government, and you will see which government is more effective in this segment. As far as my resignation is concerned, I won't say it again, I've already said a dozen here today. I'll tell you one last time. Look, there's one difference between yours and my resignation. Great. Mr. Sarec has driven you away if I say bad, but the Prime Minister of the Government has told me to stay. So that's the difference. I'm the one who said [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u209	Comrade Bandelli, may I have your attention? May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u210	I said I'd stay until this interpolation, but it's not in my hands, and I've already said it's in the hands of the Prime Minister. As for the rest of your insinuations, I don't understand them. So when I read in the newspaper, the newspaper of the party Levica, of course, or on the portals of the left political field, uncensored.si and so on, Mr Ivan Simič told them most of them that he was to gain material benefit or I do not know what, in this case, to resign. Yeah, so where did we go, Mr. Bandelli? Where did we fall? We have fallen there, which we have been talking about all night, for years and years, people are being persecuted on charges of some quasi journalists, the prosecution is not processing anything, the court is not processing it, the police are not processing anything, but they are accusing themselves mainly of the right political sex: Mr. Janez Janša for more than 20 years, I told Mr. Cernač – 7 years, I told my case exactly seven years, and I could mention it to you. So let's slow down with the same vats. I'm closing with the unions. You were here, in fact, if I may take that word, incorrect, Mr. Bandelli. You only read one piece, even one segment of the unions you said. Apparently, you weren't in the hall at the time when I explained all this long and wide, so this time, and then I won't say it again, I'll tell you why I'm judging that they've made a cow deal. See, the union has signed an agreement with the Government, a strike agreement that says so, "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia undertakes that within 60 days of the signing of the agreement in an independent professional institution, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia undertakes to carry out a comparative analysis of the evaluation of jobs for employees in public administration with the special powers of the uniformed police." That's what the strike agreement said. And then some other details, which is the point. “The Government of the Republic of Slovenia” – The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has signed the agreement, Mr Marjan Sarec and Mr Boštjan Poklukar – “agrees that the results of the analysis will be binding on it and that, in the event that this will result from the analysis, it will prepare within 45 days and submit a proposal to the representative public sector unions for an annex to the collective agreement.” Fair enough. When this happens, when this independent analysis shows that there is no difference when the government respects this proposal, so it will become aware of this analysis, you are reading, of course, through Branimir Strukli's union, that I am blackmailing the police. That I'm blackmailing the police, I'm blackmailing the unions. Quite the opposite, Mr. Bandelli! On the government's agenda is an update on this analysis that you ordered, by the way, and your government, your minister. And the independent institution you chose in your government, not ours. We just inherited the results. When I tell the police that unfortunately from this analysis, they bought a cat in a jacket, the union starts to tell me that I'm threatening them. On the contrary, I have told both trade unions that, on the basis of the agreement between the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, and me, I hope that the Government will also accept this – it is agreed that this supplement will continue to be paid, only on the basis of some meritocratic criteria, to determine how we will divide these 15 million per year, 1.25 million per month. That's what I told the union, and one union correctly took our conversation, the other union where the vice president is, that's what I said ten times today, ran on the list of SDs, and went public with a press conference with Branimir Struklje, where he said I was forcing the union. Now you can believe the newspaper of the Left Party or the portals of the left political field, but you can believe what I just said. On Friday, next Friday, a meeting with both trade unions is called to discuss whether they are willing to participate in the preparation of criteria, where we will also continue to distribute this supplement on the basis of criteria, not just so. And that's all, Mr. Bandelli. Now either you believe it or you don't believe it, and I can't help you. [[advert: Tell Brotherhood's case.]] I conclude with this: independent police, politically oriented and so on. Look, Mr. Bandelli, your president's on TV. Your president! And I'll give her the right. Your president came to the television and said that in her case, when she was being questioned by her children, she estimated that this was a politically motivated police work. Your president said that. And when I say the same thing, it's a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u211	Thank you very much. First, he has a replica of Mr. Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u212	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Well, you said something, why shouldn't I believe it? Who said I couldn't. If we cannot trust our own minister, who else will I trust? Now let's not make this metaphorical. Don't make it metaphorical. But you know, I find it interesting because you said earlier that you were all in the process. You're seven years old, they're twenty years old, I don't know. If you were in the proceedings, there were probably reasons why you were in the proceedings. And they've all ended up with forgiveness. It's been a long time, and we need to know that. Well, that's what I was gonna say. Let's let it stand, it's not a debate today that's here, we're not interested, but it is. Okay, thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u213	Thank you very much. But the minister didn't get you wrong. Or maybe it's not even a replica. Come in. Mrs. Sukič, you can't have a replica because you haven't discussed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u214	Yes, Your Honor, I do. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u215	No! No! You can't have a replica because you haven't had a discussion yet. You can't have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u216	Why not? I've been discussing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u217	Did you discuss it? I don't have you on the list here. /advertising from the bench/ First. No, no, no. You had a point of view, but you didn't have a point of view. No, no. I'm not being misled.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u218	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u219	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u220	Please, Madam President, to warn the outgoing Minister Hojs not to spread the untruths about the fact that the leftist party has any media in its possession. We're not an SDS client who even has his TV Nova24TV under his wing, but we don't have our own media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u221	Ma'am, this is not a procedural proposal. There has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You and your Members have the opportunity to deny the matter. Then I give my word to the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm not quite clear because I'm coming from the experience we have. Under Article 37a of the Defence Act, you claimed that both unions supported your efforts. Later it turned out that the first union denied it, labeled it a lie, later the second union did the same, said it was a lie. You say, I think you said four or three times – which union is a member of the SD? That's what I'm interested in. Second thing. Explain once again how it is possible in a democratic country in 2020 that someone in the European Union disagrees with the legislation to withdraw, not withdraw, is irrevocably withdrawn, the Minister remains, the President of the Government is pushing him, the Minister of Labour, since he resigned, only illegal things to a large extent, or at least at the borders of these – how can this be done, the Minister-designate? Once again, please explain, because I think we really need a lot of time to understand what you are doing; how can it be that the Republic of Slovenia, as the first country in the European Union, has an irrevocable resignation minister who makes more mistakes than the Minister with full powers. Tell me, you to me, who is that man who advocates the rule of law for a normal country, how he understands this abnormal act.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u223	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u224	That is what I said in this congregation, which is respected at least ten times today. I have not mentioned that a police officer is a member of the SD party, but I have repeatedly said that the vice-president of the union, a police union, has run for SD party list and is performing functions within the meaning of the SD party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Comrade German, still [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u226	Dear Minister, I have another question. What do you think is more digestible in the democratic system? That we have a member of the SDS at the Furs Summit, that we have a member of the SDS at the Anti-Money Laundering Office, that we have a member of the SDS at the Statistical Office, or that we have one assistant at a police union? Because you stress so much that the deep state is everywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u228	The constitution states that members of the police, the military, must not be members of political parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u229	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u230	And while it's Furs for everything you've listed, it's not in the constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. German, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u232	So if the constitution doesn't say so, is it perfectly normal for a political party to take over all sub-systems in a democratic country? This is probably normal for someone who is fighting for justice in our society, who wants to clear up all the topics and all the obligations that society should make in the field of justice. That's what the Minister of the Interior says, that's the point. One question. You still haven't answered where you got the information on which things were completed in your directions and who told you and on what basis you have this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr German, we do not have the Government's interpretation, so we can only talk about the work area or what the Minister is covering, not in general. Replica Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u234	Yes, thank you very much. I understand it's already late in the hour that colleague Matjaž Germany is tired, but my friend, look, [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u235	Mr. Duck, last warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u236	The dictatorship is gone. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u237	They'll be regular from here on out.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u238	It's not possible. It's not possible that they're all yours. Me? And if you are a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I hope that these people still have citizenship and that they have the opportunity to perform various services. But if you go that far, then I'm really afraid for this country. Violeta Tomić, don't laugh. You supported the fascist manifesto on Ljubljana Street; I would be ashamed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Before I give the word forward, I suggest that you stick to the provisions that the replica will be a replica; that is, if someone has been misunderstood, not a debate, but procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u240	I have a replica of Mrs. Anji Bah Žibart.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u241	You can't have a replica because she had a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u242	Then it's procedural. [[advertising from the hall]] I want to explain to you who to be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u243	He can't because it was a replica before. Just a minute. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Mr. Duck, while I'm running the session, leave me alone. If you keep bothering me, I'll give you disciplinary measures. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u244	This rematching of SDS is unacceptable. Fascist Manifesto Set Me Up [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u245	Madam, the procedural proposal is a procedural one which is intended for me, not a debater. [[advertising from the hall]] Look, I warned her about her debate, and I told her it wasn't the right replica. Please don't do this anymore because it's sanctioned. Mr. Ducky, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u246	First of all, are you holding a meeting or are you commenting on the meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u247	I'm in charge of the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u248	Can I finish? In the morning, when we had presentations of positions, both Jurša and Noble Jelinčič had no position when I told the President of the National Assembly in a procedural way, he told me, I can't do anything, anyone can witness what he wants. You're here as a commentator. Presidents, you'll have to deal with each other. Of course, there's a difference between you, but there should be some spruce. This is my first procedural proposal. The second procedural proposal, however, is what you know very well, and you all nod, it is possible to replicate it if it is not properly understood. And I think that was the case when she wasn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u249	If the chairman allows it. And I didn't let her. First of all, Mr Trček, you probably know what the Chairman's tasks are. You were the president of the working body, and you knew that. And I warn you not to forget what you knew until then when you led the working body. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm warning you about what's wrong. Proposer Matjaž German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u250	Your Honor, I'm going to be procedural this time, as opposed to all the interventions we have so far. Dear Vice President, I'll give you my word. It is valid in sports and is similar in the National Assembly. The judge you least see is a good judge. In today's debate, you are the loudest, so that I lay on your heart, try to calm down, not to stir the debate. Because that's what you're doing, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u251	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Under the rules of procedure, I am obliged to take care of the order and the proper debates which must run on the agenda, not on everything possible. We continue the debate. Bojan Podkoršek has the word, and he will be given the word Edward Paulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u252	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of this National Assembly. Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Mr. Hojs, your Secretary of State, all State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues! Vice President of this National Assembly, I promise to follow your instructions. I am in this Chamber for most of the day and listen to both the proposaler at 10 a.m. and all the views of the parliamentary groups, as well as a large part of the discussion of all colleagues, both on the left and on the right. Today we are talking about the internal minister's interpretation. On several occasions, I had the opportunity to listen or participate in interpretation when I was in opposition. I will also say several times in this National Assembly what I am most disappointed about today is the need to respect the flag, the constitution, the anthem, the President of the State, the President of the Government and, of course, the ministers. Today, all day while I was listening to the debate, I've noticed insults and jesting and more. I don't think that belongs in the National Assembly. People have written to me that they do not understand what we are talking about today in the National Assembly. They noticed that we were talking about a concert, whether it was or whether it will be next year or who will be at this concert. In short, throughout the day, I also have to say myself when I listened to the proposaler's 10-minute presentation that I did not know exactly what the topic is today. In a situation where people are listening, when people are burdened with much more problems than a concert they never had and never will be. I also want to say what the real purpose of today's interpolation is to make everyone who writes to me who doesn't understand today's interpolation really know what's behind it. Of course, when I listened to Mark with great joy, I especially like the line he came from. But our colleague Marko Bandelli knows best when someone's hitting on the minister. Sam was getting this. I'm talking because I don't think it's right that he's been running some footage, a statement by the minister on the phone, through these speakers here at the National Assembly. I personally felt sorry for him when he cried in front of this national assembly, defiled him and his family, his children, and others. I don't think that's right either with former Minister Bandell, nor is it right for some Members and Members to act this way towards today's Minister in this government, Mr Aleš Hojs. This applies to everyone, regardless of which party the minister comes from, whether I'm in the opposition or I'm in the coalition. Of course, when we fall here, we fall on the line. I listened attentively, respected both Matjaž – once Matjaž the German and once Matjaž Hana, leader of the Group of Social Democrats. The performances were completely contradictory, and if you don't know the background, you don't even know what they're trying to tell you. When we are talking today about an event that, I repeat, never has been, and never will be, the leader of the Group of Social Democrats, of course very much liked, out loud, even a little cynical, told Mr. Secretary of State Franc Kangler that in Slovenia there is a democracy, because he had 18 complaints, and today he is the Secretary of State. But thank God this Secretary of State has such a strong spine. What if I didn't? I'd like to sit behind bars today. I think that's our job. Many such cases are at stake today because they cannot fight to the end. I repeat, once again, thank God that today's Secretary of State had such a strong spine that it stopped. Of course, the point is to bring down this government, which works well, working for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as soon as possible. No government since Slovenia's independence has been ideal, and it is probably not without a mistake and to move on to an internal minister. I have personally followed him for several years, even when he worked in other areas. All his fellow workers always said that he was professional, demanding, and hardworking. I haven't heard from any of his closest associates that he's been lying to, and that's what I heard in the National Assembly for the first time. I don't think it's right if anyone wants to be liked on television screens, to tell the minister that I highly appreciate that he's lying. You didn't find a minister lying on one of those stairs today. Being a government minister, an internal minister in Slovenia, when we have problems in the police, when we have problems in the judiciary, the prosecution; in short, we have problems everywhere. I have spoken several times in the National Assembly, when 90 Members decide to make one investment that can be five billion, one society is behind the counter, and it is down to us – we are powerless. In this reference, and another reference earlier, we have accepted with the constitutional majority of the key issue in the unusual business of our citizens and citizens, those who have done so. We talked about billions today. Do we even know what billions are? I don't think we're aware of it. With the constitutional majority, we have accepted the Members and Members of Parliament who have been elected, but nothing has ever happened. If this interpellation is meant to bring down this minister, that those who should already be behind bars will applaud you, then you're doing a bad job for this country. Republic of Slovenia, this government needs more Alešev Hojsov. More. Maybe it's funny to someone, maybe it's funny, but when you go home, when you can't sleep, take a look at the whole picture. Recently, the National Council invited many mayors to discuss the regions of Slovenia. If our money were treated this way by citizens and citizens by all the institutions in the country, as the congregations do, this country would be fundamentally different and today we would not be discussing Thompson's concert, which has never been and will never be. In short, Minister Hoys, I wish you to continue to succeed in your work. I'm going to go against this interpretation, but there's a big difference, like someone used to upload a video of the minister's statement. The minister had one of the best leaders in Europe as Prime Minister, but Mark Bandelli had, unfortunately, a good minister, Marko Bandelli, a leader who poured only 100 kilometres into his van and went on a journey for a thousand years and ran out and stayed outside. In short, Minister Hojs, keep up the good work!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I will be brief, but we will insist on this because we want answers, because if not, it will simply pass; people will live in hope, but Aleš Hojs will lie illegally further. And I'm going to base these hard words on why I say it like that. If I didn't have a basis, I wouldn't dare. I have cited quite some of the inappropriate, illegal, illegal and even lying surfaces that the minister has pronounced either before or during today's session. In the presence of a magnetogram, I can ask the following questions. Dear Hoys, you're on POP TV on 11. 8. declare that you will insist that you do not violate any law in the direction of mandatory instructions, since these cases are no longer referred to the State Prosecutor’s Office. Was I clear enough? You've made a public statement, Mr. Secretary-General, on several occasions. I'll also tell you where: once on POP TV and once on Target. You have publicly stated that these cases are closed, that they are no longer directed by the State's Attorney's Office. Today, in this session, you said the following at this meeting. You're pleading with the police on the same issue. That the cases are closed to the police and that you have the right to this information. So, you told the public that the prosecution was closed with cases, today you're lying, softening your position by saying that the cases were closed at the police, the well-respected minister. That's why I'm asking you again. First time. Did you know that you ordered a review of the cases still being directed by the State's Attorney's Office? Another time. Who at the police station is informing you that the cases before the police are closed? Who? Two questions of two different arguments: 11. 8th and today. You're pleading with the D.A., you're pleading with the police. You're famous for being so easy to lie to. We've talked about this today. Proven, quoted on a magnetogram. I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u255	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on the list. Edward Paulic has the word, and he's going to be discussed by the magician. Marko Koprivc. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, chairman. To begin with, I will oppose the Dictionary of Slovenian Book Language. The word “irrevocable” means something that cannot be changed. Given all these maneuvers, Mr Hojs, perhaps we should correct this definition in a way that irrevocability means something that cannot be changed, but can also be. But according to the generally valid definition so far, the nature of your resignation is clear. At the moment of your irrevocable resignation, in accordance with Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the minister's function has ceased and your transfer, so that you can reconsider, wait for what, it’s strange – nicely said – to say. In some ways, today's interpolation is absurd, because you've given up your function irrevocably, but still, if I move on. At the June 30th press conference, you said that “as far as my resignation is concerned, with my resignation 15 minutes before this press conference I informed the President of the Government. The President of the Government has accepted my irrevocable resignation.” This information, Mr Hojs, has been given to the entire Slovenian public and I believe that it is in a judgmental state. However, you are still here almost three months after your resignation with full powers. I wonder how credible you are and how trustworthy the Slovenian public can be if you withdraw the word so easily. On 30 June, according to the same day as you resigned, the National Investigation Office conducted a house inquiry in the morning at the home of Minister Počvalska, concerning the purchase of protective equipment. You claimed to be politically motivated for this house investigation, and I wonder if you resigned because you couldn't influence its course. However, it should be pointed out here that, in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, house investigations shall be carried out only where there is a reasonable suspicion of a crime. Clearly, then, the investigating authorities have found that such suspicion exists and have been able to obtain a court order in the first place. So it's not political persecution, as you said, but I believe that this investigation is very disturbing. Therefore, they are not surprised by the word in your resignation statement, which you yourself have published on social networks. It says you're resigning because a police department is politicized, and you're not giving any evidence, it's some flat-rate statement, and your personal perception of the system that's not with us is against us. As Minister, at least that is the impression, you do not allow the possibility that investigative authorities have been independent, professional and impartial in their actions. On the other hand, by your actions, you have actually tried to influence the work of the police politically. For example, on 27 April, on Twitter, you asked the police to use all available images and media contributions to identify participants in Friday's protests, which need to be criminalized. Later, the police actually unjustifiably legitimized the protesters, for which they did not have a legal basis. This was demonstrated by an analysis by the Office of the Ombudsman. They were placed in stock because they were supposed to raise suspicion that they would commit a crime or commit a crime. Mr. Hoys, you're obviously selectively active, if I may explain. With regard to Friday's protests, you are very involved with the law enforcement authority, including through social networks, and, for example, in the association of high-level government representatives without protective equipment and without a safety distance, you do not call on the competent institutions to actively prosecute the perpetrators. They also visited the police station in Slovenska Bistrica when they broke into the station and requested information and information that they were not entitled to, and even boasted on social networks after leaving to unlock the station. You weren't as active here as you were in Friday's protests. At least what you would expect from the minister is that he has the same vats for everyone. Finally, if I touch another one of the readings, namely, the revisions of the procedures before the National Investigation Office. You have determined to review some rebuttal cases that are in your client's or any other interest. Several experts point out that this is an illegal audit and that you do not have a legal basis for such an instruction. For it is only cases that have already been taken over by state prosecutors, and only they are competent for guidance; you, as minister, are certainly not. And the moment your assistant director of the criminal police warned or expressed doubts about the legality of the audit, he was resolved. I hope it's just a coincidence. That's why today, Mr. Hoys, I'm going to help you with your irrevocable resignation and I'm going to support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The replica of Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Chairman. I just have to replicate in the part where my colleague said that the cases are mentioned by those who are in some way or interested in the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's what you said. Look, the Iranian money laundering has been dealt with here by the commission of inquiry and has adopted some conclusions. This was not only the interest of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but the entire National Assembly. Above all, this is an interest of the public. It's also the venous cords. We have also considered this within the framework of the Commission of Inquiry and it has been of wider interest and it is also of interest, I think, to the public. I'm surprised – no, I'll say otherwise, I'm not surprised that some of these matters are not your interest. Especially as far as money laundering is concerned, and as a result, ties to your client.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u259	Thank you very much, colleague. That wasn't a replica. This was an extension of the debate. I suggest that in the future you continue to follow the definitions: replica is a replica, procedurally, procedurally. Read it. He's a German friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u260	I'm going to tie it to my predecessor for a little while. Irangate affair, money laundering through NLB, Jani Möderndorfer – outstanding. Really, I lay my heart on all of John Janš’s fans to see his performance. Just one piece of information about what it is and who ended up with the D.A.'s work. Instead of being a party to the SDS, you are talking about the deep state behind it and Minister Hojs trying, even though he is interfering with another branch of government, to get rid of such anomalies. All I want to do is let the SDS know to the public that Barbara Brezigar's son was the prosecutor in this case. This is Mr. Jake Brezigar. Just so that no reports of undeclared work will fall on LMŠ, SD, Levico or anyone else. Barbara Brezigar is – we know who. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u261	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc will be discussed by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u262	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Minister Hoys! As has been said many times today, you have made an irrevocable withdrawal. You did not make a motion or offer to resign to the Prime Minister, but you resigned irrevocably. Why did you resign irrevocably? This is even more important. Because you failed to prevent house investigations with the vice-president of the government due to suspicion of corruption in purchasing protective equipment. And then nothing to me, nothing to you, until today you haven't talked about it at all, you're just continuing to serve as Minister of the Interior. You're making a real fool out of citizens and citizens. You're really making a fool of yourself or you think we're all crazy! But this is obviously for a SDS client and a retired minister some normal practice. Or should I say otherwise, you've obviously been afraid of your great leader, John Janša, and because he didn't leave you this resignation, you've simply remained a minister. No, it's not, it's not normal and that's why Parliament is surrounded today by protestors who want your real immediate withdrawal and the collapse of this government. These governments are weak and dangerous for Slovenia, especially for democratic standards in Slovenia. If I continue to press charges from our interpretation. It is certainly not right to try to influence the work of the police, to try to influence the work of the NPU and, when you fail, to offer a resignation or to resign irrevocably. It is not right to instruct the police to deal violently with protestors and protestors who peacefully express their opinion or disapproval of the practices of this government, and in any case it is a extreme time for you to actually implement this irrevocable derogation. I must admit that I am counting on your coalition partners here, who are still committed to some democratic tradition and democratic values. I find it strange that today there are silences with extremely few Essematists who would hardly say that they are yet Essematians, the rest of them are not silent. They're silent and obviously agree with everything that's going on. But there is one more thing I would like to say, Mr. Secretary of State. I was already at the start convinced that you cannot be an interior minister or any minister in the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, you were the director of the media, the political media, the client medium Nova24TV, which is an extremely biased, spreading hate speech that spreads lies and promotes intolerance, and such a person is not fit to perform state functions. In addition, this television, as you would call it, has apparently been illegal or there are serious indications that it is even a bit of an international criminal association in financing this political, far-right media. [[advertising from the hall]] Your Honor, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u263	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u264	May I have your attention and peace in the hall, please? I listened to you, too. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to step into the lobby for a moment where Hojs and Prime Minister Janez Janša, day after day, are persecuted by partisans, communists, armed with the media, justice, police and, above all, common sense. I am moving on in the field of ideology, which you keep putting at the forefront and at the same time the Members – and here I expect a replica – are telling us that we are constantly opening up themes from a half-time history. Of course, we open or respond! Fascism in Slovenia will not be allowed, absolutely not! And the uprising that singer Thompson specialises is fascism. All symbols of fascism are prohibited in Slovenia, the Constitution prohibits, and therefore, the Minister of Deputies, it is unacceptable that you have allowed the organization of a concert, which was not then allowed by other coincidences. It is unacceptable that such a concert is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitution of other acts. So, please, don't cheat. You could have called this decision off, but you didn't; but you didn't; but you didn't, so I hope to say, even on the basis of the discussions of many Members and Members, because you kind of sympathize with this singer and with the ideas he advocates. And even in your official response to the interpolation, you wrote that, according to the European Court of Justice, totalitarian symbols are allowed to be used, you refer to the red star, although in the completely wrong context, because also when the European Court decided that a case where the red star is exposed can be carried out, it made clear that the red star is, in addition to a symbol of a regime, also a symbol of the international labour movement and so on. There is no way to compare Fascist, Ustarian symbols with a symbol or with a red star, which is a symbol of rebellion, a symbol of antifascism, a symbol of the international labor movement, a symbol of our statehood, so to speak. But don't get me wrong; don't get me wrong. I do not want to go back in time, but I want to respect the fundamental values of our country and our Slovenia is built on anti-fascism and we do not give all Europe and anti-fascism. We will not give Slovenia, which is based on these constitutional principles. And you want to create another republic. You, your government, your boss is in charge, and you're one of the top performers. This is certainly unacceptable, and I think, Mr. Hoys, you don't believe yourself what you're saying. Above all, what you were trying to say today is that you are not some socialist, Thompson and so on, but at the same time you say the opposite. By doing so, you say the opposite, and I think it's high time you said goodbye to the minister. Once again, there are coalition partners who will show today and prove that they care about democracy, freedom and Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u265	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Boštjan Koražija, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u266	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Mr. Hoys, do you know what a man's word means or what a man's word is? That is essentially the man or man whose actions follow his words and, unfortunately, you are not the man of the word. Because, in fact, only Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government, has a single word in this government and in this coalition. You've been left with ordinary puppets, and once they cut these threads on which you're tied, you'll fall very deep. In fact, when you talk about a deep country, you will also fall deeply. That's the way it is. Previously, you have also presented yourself very well in your defense as a victim — what you know very well — and I must say that it is in fact the opposite, because your work so far has in fact shown that you are really the one who makes other people and their families or works for the victims. You sacrifice them if and when necessary, and you hurt them with pain and injustice — they know why. When you were chairman of Nova24TV's board of directors, you allowed homophobic, xenophobic, racist articles and publications and under these articles and publications there were also comments that did not deserve, I will say, not just words, but publications. Unfortunately, we were all those who disagreed with your ideas or with these extreme right-wing views of the world and the situation in society, the targets of very ugly attacks, personal and our families. I must admit, I have a lot of respect for you when you said earlier that you wanted to protect your family. I'm thinking the same thing. I'm ready to go to my family's grave. It really surprises me, after you talk about such things very much, deeply – yes, I would almost say a person so sophisticated – that you do not understand that we also have other families or partners, my parents, I will say my circle of friends, my relatives, who in fact in such matters, say when you were chairman of the board of directors, you allowed publications that actually attacked us very personally and discredited us, and many times they were very false. What bothers me personally, because I am a proud member of the LGBT community, is actually amazing how many articles you have against LGBT or against gays, against lesbians, against our way of life. But we are just ordinary people like you; with the same problems, with the same problems, with the same things happening in society. We are dealing with the same political issues, we are trying to answer the same essential problems of life and problems that are happening to you. The next thing, since you mentioned this several times already today – as far as Slovenian Bistrica is concerned. I come from a place or part of Slovenia where Slovenska Bistrica is personally very close to me. I must admit that I was very sad that none of the SDS members then took sides with the police and the Slovenian Bistrica. Really, I mean disaster. That then I had to expose myself to explaining it to people or also to stand up for the cops, what you should have done then. In fact, you have said very interesting things before, but I must because in this cynicism today you have even outdone yourself when you made fun of the police when you said that they are very well aware – I think the guards are bellies. But you need to be aware of something – and whoever was in the military or in the police knows it well – whether he is a belly man, because it doesn't matter who, the person or the athletic man or the person who has dangerous firearms in his hands is just as dangerous, whether he's fat, whether he's dry, whether he's athletic or not. Such generalization, in fact the humiliation of a policeman, a police profession, let alone the Slovenian Bistrica. Slovenian Bistrica was then – I will not say what now. I'd say something at home, and I'd be quiet. Mr. Kangler will know what I mean. Even as far as this irrevocable retreat is concerned. One feels that today we are talking about a mirage or a question that has passed. Indeed, it is so that, as Mr President of the Government will say, it will. You'll vote like he says. It must be acknowledged that I like to say this or point out it many times, Mr Janša, an old political cat, but I would like to draw attention to one thing that is going on outside around Parliament. [[sign for the end of the debate]] In fact, people warn and demand that this government leave or fall. In fact, I must also admit that in view of the non-democratic processes that are taking place here, in this national assembly and also which I have been [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I'm afraid your time has run out. [[advertising from the hall]] Your time is up. You can't even hear yourself. Thank you very much for your discussion. We're moving on. Mr Blaž Pavlin has the following word and Mr Igor Pekek is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u268	Vice President, thank you for your word. Colleagues, colleagues and the Minister are well-welcome! Since I don't have much time, I'm not going to repeat things that have been exposed many times today. Here I must agree with my colleague Matjaz Han that the Institute of Interpellation is the institution that is in the hands of every opposition, and it is the same. However, the Minister of the Interior, Aleš Hojs, has been a thorn in the fifth current opposition since he was not yet Minister and shortly after his appointment, even at the time of the epidemic, requested the convening of urgent meetings of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the local self-government and the public administration, where you accused the Minister and charged him with illegal, unconstitutional and other unacceptable measures, which, in your opinion, restricted the freedom of citizens and citizens at the time of the epidemic. Here I am primarily referring to restrictions on movement within the congregations with permanent or temporary residence. It was this week that the Constitutional Court ruled that you were wrong and that the Government pursued a constitutionally permissible objective by imposing restrictions on the movement to the municipality of residence. It is said that infestation control of the spread of infectious disease covid-19. It shows right here who can judge whether one thing is legal or not. In my opinion, it's just a court of law. Today, we have heard many different accusations of the Minister's illegal efforts to comply with various guidelines, guidelines to the police in various ways. I think that whether this matter is legal or not can only be decided by a court and here various legal opinions do not outweigh the court's decision. Along with the other members of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, I took part in both unannounced controls at the General Police Administration, the Criminal Police Office and the National Investigation Office. In my understanding of what we have learned in these discussions about the police representatives, I have created my opinion, and I think your statements to the Minister are unjustifiable. Finally, as a citizen and as an MP, I am certainly interested in whether the police are in all cases, according to all predictive procedures, have done all the tasks in accordance with the law and the police profession, and only police control can show this. This control of the police will not be carried out by the Minister, but will be carried out by the police within their own organs.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Peček has the next word, Mr Sonibo Knezak is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Hoys! Otherwise, in my debate, I will ask some questions that are not directed directly to you, perhaps more to us who are sitting in this house. However, I would like to say first of all what I think of you, not personally, but of the work and actions you are doing as Minister of the Interior. I also believe that, at least as long as I am a Member of this National Assembly, this is my first duty, my right, and ultimately my responsibility, as we have appointed you Minister as a member of this Assembly. There was a lot of explaining what interpeelation was. It pains me that we still don't know how to separate between control, investigation and criminal responsibility. And any institution, any action, whatever it is, in this way has the right and the obligation to verify. I understand interpellation in particular as a means of controlling the work of the government, the work of the individual minister, and it is my personal opinion, Mr Hojs, that your conduct requires such control. There is also a question that has been raised, how likely it is that such control, such as interpolation, is likely to be effective and successful. History has shown that virtually none, except for one bright exception, or if we can even call it an exception, interpolation was not effective. It cannot be successful if a member of this government declares that his/her delegation or that the parliamentary group to which he/she is a member or chairman do not support interpretations because they are not supported by the coalition agreement or the coalition agreement. I don't want to be ironic here anymore, so I won't go on, but the fact is that there are some actions, Mr Hojs, here in this house we need to talk out loud. In particular, when Members decide today on their support or non-support for interpretation, we will in some way define ourselves before the Slovenian public: what kind of policy we are and what kind of policy we advocate. Is it a policy of tweeting, pressure, influence on the work of the police, the work of other authorities also through social networks? Is this a human resources exchange policy for which many legal professionals have already expressed their views, or perhaps a policy of biasing citizens? In my opinion, these are actions, Mr Hojs, on which today the debate should be held, and in the end we will probably also define ourselves to do so in a way that we respect or do not respect certain political, legal and constitutional standards. If there's anything I can tell you, it's your incoherence. You've somehow confirmed it yourself by giving up irrevocably and then stepping back and thinking. Even after you continued to warn or stress that you are a full - time minister. I took your irrevocable resignation statement seriously. So you should explain to yourself that you are today the Minister of State who is allowed to do current business. However, at this time, you have done quite a few things to this day, which do not belong to running business, and I also belong to such things as do not even fall within your competence as Minister of Home Affairs. I reserve the right to have such an opinion. For example, influence on the work of police officers without having a clear legal basis for direct influence. Here, too, at least as I understand it, the orientation of police work does not mean interference in specific matters, but it does mean giving general instructions and guidance. Some of the other interventions that have already been exposed – and I do not want to repeat myself because it has been clearly presented – are, for example, to the National Investigation Office, in my opinion, an unacceptable influence and also constitute in some way an excess of your powers as Minister of the Interior. With this, Mr Hojs, you have implemented a policy that I, as a politician and as a Member, simply cannot approve, I do not approve, and I hope that no circumstance will force me to ever have to. It was an interference in cases that are not definitive or legal and therefore it is also illegal to impose an audit on the work of the investigating authorities. Just the fact that you do not trust the police and the National Investigation Office, as you have demonstrated by certain statements made in the house investigations, clearly expresses your view that this is a politically motivated investigation. This fact that, as Minister of the Interior, you do not trust the expertise of our officers and criminals is sufficient reason for my mistrust. Police, thank God, you cannot create by your standards and values, and thank God you cannot replace all police officers and criminals, and on the other hand the National Assembly can replace a minister who no longer enjoys confidence and credibility among his subordinates and not credibility among the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In your introductory presentation, you wondered how the rule of law and democracy worked. Your implementation hereafter has been very much disturbed by me because I have taken it and understood it as some sort of accounting with a history which, in my opinion, is unnecessary and I do not understand it, in fact, I do not understand it any more from the seat you are sitting on, Mr Hojs. Otherwise, I can understand someone who tells him to do something, and then he doesn't do it, because he thinks it might have been a moment of weakness, an urgent decision. I can understand, otherwise it is far more difficult that such a statement is also a tool designed primarily to achieve something, but I would not even like to use the term here to force something. But if someone sitting in a ministerial seat does so, whose appointment and discharge are laid down by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of a legal and democratic country which does not respect everything else, including the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, then my understanding in this place ceases. The aim of the interpretation is also to express our confidence, and I have tried to say this in my debate, about the confidence you have as a minister in this house, no matter what the final outcome of this interpretation will be. Mr. Hoys, you no longer have my trust, and I hope you understand that I will also support your interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u271	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Sonibo Prince has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u272	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Aleš Hojce, it's a good evening for all of us. In fact, I will stick to the basic topic mentioned for the interpretation, for two reasons; because I did not usually think in the previous service about things that are not somehow my area of expertise, but today, in addition to all the other matters that Thompson mentioned during the course of the day in this interpretation, which you have done in disputed ways, in my firm belief, my colleague, Germany, and in particular my colleague, Baković, who has worked his entire life in the police, from policeman to later, I think he also taught at the police academy. I mean, Mr Hojs, when I mention too much that you owe him the answers to questions; something that he gave you specific expertise, I don't think he got any answers. I said I'd talk about Thompson's concert case in the first place. Matjaž Han mentioned that we come from different backgrounds. We also have different opinions, which in the final stage is also right. Parliament is also supposed to be dedicated to this. I myself come from the working environment, from Hrastnik, from Zasavje, from red magazines, which I am proud of, which were known in the past for their struggles in these places, where the bread was mainly served in two ways; deep underground, in difficult conditions, there were buttons and, on the other hand, Glaciers, under difficult conditions – heat at the oven and all that. The common denominator of all those who served bread in our place in this way was that they all worked hard, namely, for labor. That is why we are also known, from our ends, on strike, before the first, before the second and also after the second world war, with only one desire to improve rights and some normal payment that you will be able to spend your family with. People in these places have a lot of historical memory, we are proud of our history, and we are proud of the period of national liberation. I don't know, maybe it's because of this camadshaft that's kind of true for us; you didn't have anything other than a cameraman to help you, if anything did happen, we had a much bigger response when we were involved in the national liberation fight. In the middle of Hrastnik we have a tomb, a monument with over 400 names of our fellow Ukrainians and fellow Ukrainians who lost their lives in World War II. Somehow more, a good half as active participants in armed resistance, and everyone else lost their lives in camps, during torture, after prisons. You can read these names, including men, women, children, whole families. Mr. Secretary, why am I telling you this? The concert you mentioned today, but it wasn't, and it's never going to be, just what you did with this decision, it shouldn't have happened with us. It's just not supposed to happen with us. What do you say, Mr. Hoys? How do the relatives of these people, whom I have mentioned, feel, when you open the door to the wide-ranging promotion of the institution that calls for violence at concerts, introduces an iconography that interferes with the dark years of World War II and at the same time magnifies this crime of the constitutional regime? I'll tell you what. I was just saying something and they were very disappointed about what was happening 70 years after the liberation. In the elderly who have experienced this, there is fear, resentment, anger, a mixture of all that I explain to you. Above all, the question arises for all, Mr Minister-respected – why? Why? What for? That's my question, too. What did you need that for? I don't know if we're doing too well in this country because we live in a safe country, which is a hell of a rare thing today. We don't know what we have. We live in a safe country because of the good work of the police, with which you are constantly in conflict. We don't know what we have to go to any hour of the day, I can go to any part of our beautiful country, walk around, and I'm not afraid anything will happen to me. Don't you like it? The Minister of the Interior in the role you are performing is expected to ensure that citizens and citizens feel safe. I come by my actions, what you do, you sow fear among men. That's not good. That's also why I don't think you're suitable for the Minister of the Interior. Several colleagues and colleagues have already mentioned that they had quite a few problems in what you should be called today: whether you are a retired minister, a retired minister, given all that has happened to this burka with your resignation irrevocable, I thought that the closest expression was the Minister on forced labour. [[...]] Minister of Forced Labour, who has to do a job he doesn't want to do. And I'm not paraphrasing with that. I'm gonna name you by your name. Mr. Alesh Hoys, I hope that's still true. Today, my colleague Tina Hefferle mentioned it and asked you. I myself worked in the workforce as a part of my professional career, so I was also a little interested in your resignation — by law. The only thing they say about your resignation — not yours, but also the ministers — is this 115th article, which has a single sentence. I'll read it to you again. “The office of the Prime Minister and the Minister shall cease when a new National Assembly is formed after the elections, as well as any other suspension of the office of Prime Minister and the discharge or resignation of the Minister, but they must carry out ongoing operations until the election of the new Prime Minister or the appointment of new ministers.” Dear Minister, I found no chapter anywhere that says the Prime Minister has to open an envelope. I didn't find it. I don't know. You're gonna complement me. I'm not a lawyer, but I couldn't find him. It doesn't say anything about an envelope. It's kind of interesting, this envelope, when I've been following up on the actions of the last few months, it's been following you around. So I could say that I had some idea for this coalition so you could add some kind of coalition envelope. I don't know. The mailman's having trouble handing out some envelope to the Prime Minister. The invitation to tender for the purchase of multimillion-dollar protective equipment, some open, many envelopes remained open. But these real envelopes opened up: ours, ours, ours, ours, our dads, my uncles, my friends, my client compatible people, who own companies that had a couple thousand euros, got millions of jobs. I don't know. Usually ordinary people, when they mention politics and envelopes, think about corruption. Interestingly, I also think that one member of the Government is currently in some corruption affair in the KPK investigation. It's absurd, though, but we've been listening to it for the last month, all summer. Last but not least, like I said, it's also unacceptable that this unopened envelope is supposed to be the reason you have to do a job you don't want to do. Which you don't want. I, the Minister-designate, would only place this on your heart if, in this country, we also had a good working law based on the previous system, which referred to labour rights as high as possible. Nowhere, if you do not have in the Government Act these procedures, we have them regulated by the Labour Relations Act, which also does not mention any envelope by any president or director who has to open this envelope. No one, Mr Hojs, can hold you in this National Assembly and force you to perform a function that you do not wish to perform. And I'll leave the reasons. You don't want, you're not capable, whatever was the reason for your irrevocable resignation. No one can hold you. We do not have slavery in Slovenia. Neither can John Janša force you to do works that no longer please you, for which you have made an irrevocable withdrawal. I'll be done. Therefore, I suggest that, on the basis of what I have said, you can quietly stand up to this moment, go towards the exit, without any legal and financial obligations, you can leave this job. Just a phrase, but I think it is in the great joy of the vast majority of Slovenian inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u273	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Do you think you were misunderstood in your debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think my colleague was very good at listening, or he didn't understand. I don't know where he came from because I feel myself, like I said about Thompson's concert. [[…]] And you're talking about the promotion of the institution today, and here we've really misunderstood each other. I said that the wish for a concert was organized during your government. It was a wish. And that the court's decision has fallen. Usually you're the one who talks the most about being respected by the courts. And don't talk about us promoting the uprising. Now decide whether judges should be replaced, whether it is possible to set up those who take pictures with you with a red star, or change the laws. But that's how it is. The decision of the court was respected. As far as history is concerned, Your Honor. I don't think it's true that we have to be completely proud of our history. First of all, we need to learn something from her. There have also been very dark times in this history that we cannot be proud of. I'd like to invite you, my respectable colleague, who is just from Zasavje to go to the pit together once in a while.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Now, do you have a replica or something? [[…]] I'm just explaining because it's a replica of a replica, Mr. Sonibo. The replica is only possible if the chairman considers it necessary to allow you a three-minute replica. Here you go. And you have a procedure? Then let it truly be procedural so that it will not really be a replica of the performance of Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u276	Thank you, Vice President. Besides, I don't know the reason for this replica, I haven't mentioned Mrs. Bahova in a word, but I've been listening to it all day. I'd like you to warn her to stop this title, that we don't understand anything. I don't know how many times she said that today: you didn't understand. This one thinks we're a fool, everyone sitting on the other side. No, we have different opinions. But I understand you very well, and I can hear you very well right now, ma'am. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u277	Thank you very much. This was not a procedural proposal to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, so that I cannot intervene as chairman in the vocabulary or the expression of Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. However, Mr Tanko has already warned me from this place, and I appeal to all of you not to use such terms as, you do not understand me, you do not understand me or so further that we are respectful of everyone, so that I am joining this warning by Mr Tank. If we can proceed with the debate. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u278	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First, I must say to myself that I support Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior. I support him because a man is an act that cannot be considered a puppet because he does his work with responsibility, expertise and quality. This is why, among other things, a number of people who have written this interpretation, which is not intended to be around Minister Hojs, are protected by individual interest groups, which are extended by certain political options, and these are SD and LMŠ. Today, when I listened to Mr German, among other things, when he said that Mr Minister should start, if he wanted to, solving problems in the police, which, therefore, I am talking about the ministry, to the police in the ministry, to write down legislation that will set things up if, of course, these things are not set up properly. I agree with him here, and I have no problem with him, but at the moment the implementation of the law begins, and these are the facts, that is for people to decide. You can write a gold marriage if the wrong people who have political connections get it in their hands, they'll abuse it. And that's what's been going on so far. We have a thousand and one proof that this is the case. Because later on, I'm going to get a little bit attached to certain names and names, because I've written something down, it's a good idea to make this introduction. The fact is that no law will solve the key problem unless there are honest, responsible and non-politically defined people behind it. And today, Mr Aleš Hojs has repeatedly shown one picture where we see where certain people belong, who should be absolutely, absolutely non-party and fair and fair. If we go to look into all these things, for example, there have been a lot of words about the NPU today and I will relate to it. Who's the founder of the NPU? Aleš Zalar and Katarina Kresal. And perhaps we can ask ourselves why this was done. Then I'll try and explain a little through the things I have, and through the names and names, why I'm saying it. We had a similar case on the anti-corruption commission. Do you remember Mr. Kos when he was chairman of the commission? Do you remember a little bit about what was going on? Now I won't go into the details of these things. And I know that today this interpolation has no sound foundation on which to stand. Aleš Hojs, Minister, dissected today, to a comma and a dot he reasoned, argued everything from A to Z, but of course, if this interpretation is ideological nature, which is, then you can say whatever you want and nothing holds up. So you're barking at the moon when you're talking about arguments. You, the one who wrote the interpolation, are deliberately sitting on your ears. Now, dear colleagues and colleagues, as I have already said, this interpretation against Minister Hojs today is not an interpretation, but it is my opinion that it is a meeting to protect left-wing links at the NPU. Why do I think that the NPU is so important to LMSH and SD? Because there are 90% of their personnel in the NPU and they're only working to protect them. LMSH and SD have a protectorate on the NPU. Nothing can happen to them there. Their jobs, I'm not gonna say what point, they're allowed on their side. Look at the words, Matjaž, earlier today – I told you that I will mention you – how you can be a member of the National Assembly, and on the other hand you have a business or your wife who deals with a state company. [[…]] If that's not a problem, it's a problem for me! So, your connection, your function in the National Assembly, is political, and it's often quite beneficial that you probably keep this business or you can upgrade it. I'm not saying that's true, but I'm assuming it's not moral, it's unacceptable. I wouldn't have any problem with you working with private companies, not state companies. And then, as far as I know, you have a large majority of all the key people in Petrol SD, and then it makes sense here that then the situation is the way it is, and that things are going as they are. Then someone tells me it's not a political story, that politics has nothing to do with it. Of course he does! The representatives here inside you are extended hands or they are the ones out there extended hands of this team sitting here in Parliament; and that is not right. Think that the government of Marjana Sharca is the director of the NPU, we all know that, called Dark Male. You know, he was working at the Bureau of Prevention of Money Laundering at the time Iran was laundering money into the NLB for terrorists. And this Mr. Male has made sure that Iran can do this peacefully. No problem, nothing came out, nothing happened, so he's in that position. Do you remember what Logar's investigation committee found? The report was unanimously adopted and sent to the NPU, where was the director – who? Darko Male. What happened? Nothing. Nothing! Logically, he treated himself, Darko Male. Darko Maležič also allegedly had direct connection with Damir Črnčec as director of the NPU and was expected to have this connection today. That is why the LMSH and SD fight so frailly that these centres of power — you know what they come from — come from behind. And keep those same shots there. That's the point. Interpellation's going this way today, too. To prove what this is all about. If they're untouchable, nothing should happen to anyone, no one should be replaced. The minister must have his hands tied. He can only come in there as someone who comes in there and looks left and right, but he has no right to say nothing, nor write anything, to anyone add anything and so on. Of course, such ministers have been great so far, Mr Poklukar, who was a complete puppet. You may recall the LMŠ, which was its previous quality. But I'm not gonna be the one to talk about how capable he was and how far he wasn't. But he was a puppet, and that's a fact. That's not a dilemma. Darko Male at the NPU is also suspected to be the leader of a group that specializes in right-wing law enforcement, and especially SDS parties. That's amazing. I'm talking supposed to be. But that's amazing. There's a lot of noise from the towers. Then it's a very big scandal and a big political issue. This group, along with Dark Male, is expected to be composed of David Antolović, Mitja Gregorc, Tina Pahor and Marko Kosher. Tina Pahor was already among the criminals who, in the case of Shircel, wanted to capture the server on SDS. During Friday's cycling protests, she and some of her colleagues were seen cycling against the government and then drinking in one of Ljubljana's bars. Now I ask you, this is an impartial criminalist for you. I'm asking if that's an impartial criminalist for you. And someone's saying we don't have any connections! That's why SD and LMSH are defending them. Makes sense. For the sake of interest. Then David Antolović, deputy director of the NPU, is known to be a special agent for the SDS. That's amazing! It's the political police! This is no longer the police who could say that this is amazing! [[…]] Then interestingly, the papers against Zdravek Restorščku for house examinations should be signed on leave. It's amazing. It's really amazing. Mitja Gregorc is one of those criminals at the NPU, allegedly through whom information is being carried out on the Uncensored portal. I'm supposed to have a direct link with Vesno Vuković and Primož Cimerman – Cirman, I apologize. Mitja Gregorc is also supposed to be one of those who wrote an anonymous complaint last week against Aleš Hojs, Franco Kangler and Lado Bradac. It's amazing what coincidences. Just coincidences! NPU criminalist Mitja Gregorc is also expected to have an afternoon st. p. as he deals with executions and real estate transactions. Several legal experts, if anyone remembers back a little, have already said that this is controversial, but it is not a problem for him, because he is on the right, the left and can do what he wants here. The most interesting thing about this is why criminalist Mitja Gregorc changed his last name. Before that, it was Mitja Milojevic. Is this man afraid of anyone? Did he resent anyone or was he simply ashamed of his background? I don't know, that's the question. The question is also for us because it is in such an important position. NPU criminalist Marko Koshir is investigating Matthew Tonin because, as President of Knovs, he has prepared a report on arbitration, which was unanimously adopted at Knovs. What did Tonin, tell me, do wrong there? And, say, what does this Marko Kosher have to investigate Members for their vote? That's what I'm asking you. Doesn't that tell you anything? There's a whole bunch of these things, indictives that are problematic, that are unacceptable to democracy. That is why, dear colleagues and colleagues, today this is an interpretation, which is why today this is an interpolation. To defend your connections to the NPU, to defend your criminals. To defend Dark Male, David Antolović, Tino Pahor, Mark Kosher and Mitja Gregorec. And all of these are supposed to work under the conductor's baton, and we all know who they know very well in LMŠ, Damir Crnèc. I have nothing to say for Matjaž, because today I listened to him in his debates, at the beginning when he had to speak for 30 minutes, to present the interpretation, he spoke for only 10 minutes or what. So, then his ability is clear that this story would lead to this point, I'm sure, according to my personal opinion, that he himself is not capable of doing it. It's not. I think he's also a servant, according to my personal opinion, Damier Crnèc. But the worst part is, if he's aware of it, I think it's even worse. Isn't it interesting, colleagues and colleagues, that everything that happens at the NPU and in the police, first of all, always publishes the portal Uncensored, journalist Primož Cirman and Vesna Vuković? Isn't it interesting that the Uncensored Portal appeared a few weeks before the creation of John Janša? Isn't it interesting that this portal doesn't have any ads and keeps publishing the articles of the Council24 and the Reporter? No, it's not interesting! This is most likely the social political worker Cirman and Vuković, who do not know and do not want to explain where or where they finance themselves, where their portal is financed. Today, there was a huge, huge amount of words spoken at the expense of Ultradesic New TV and so on. I've been listening, because that's why I put a few things in. What I heard today, what insults to this TV, seems to me like we just don't live in the same world. It is said that someone, whoever, writes anything else or says anything else in truth, is extremely harmful to your elite and absolutely must be as the political commissioners determine what can and cannot come to the public; as they do on RTV 1, as they do on POP TV, as does the Dnevnik, as does the Work, as does the Evening, as does the Youth. Today I am – Barteli or whatever it is, not Batenelli. How's it going? Bandelli. Sorry, Bandelli — Bandellija listened when he read an article from Youth. And he didn't even ask himself when he took this paper into his hands, which is useless, who is funding the Youth, from what title is it financed, and who is the editor-in-chief? Rape. Do you know him? Or maybe he has nothing to do with SD and nothing to do with it? [[Incomprehensible]] When you get that paper in your hand, it must be bad for you, it must be embarrassing for someone to write something like that. All lies on a cubic, not a square. Crazy, look when you read this. Crazy! And then someone uses that for their material, the debate in the National Assembly, and they try to get smart and so on, that you're sick. Maybe now I'd try to finish slowly, but I think it's okay for the minister and the police to talk about this uncensored portal as well, and Furs, please take a look at it and find out where these people are funding from. Where does this portal come from? There's got to be a reason, because you can't act if you don't have any income. I'm asking today publicly for this to happen. I'm calling the police, and I'm calling Furs to look into where these people got the money from? Where did this gentleman's wife come from, and now I'm not going to say another name and last name to someone, a husband, and I don't know how many million money? Where'd she get the money? And so on and so forth. Today, we have all come to realize that many, many pig things have happened in our society, as we have talked about this laundering of Iraqi money – Iranian money – and then the thefts of sales of veneers, and here we can see that someone is protecting someone, all the time, and the same people are spinning. All these key positions are always put in place by the same people who protect that nothing happens, that no story gets epilogue. When it touches this structure of anyone, whether it's the current minister or anyone else, then it's a scream and a scream, and then it's a human being to be intertwined. Then everything has to be stopped so that it doesn't happen once. I hope, Mr Minister, that with your authority, with your responsibility, and within the framework of, of course, your legal powers, you will do everything and continue this path that you have drawn. You have my full support and that once things are in place, we will truly have these organs that will not choose between ours and yours, but will lead to those doors from bars all those who abuse the system. They abuse politics, abuse left-wing politics or any other policy. That seems important to me, I think it's urgent. I know there will be many attacks, many problems, many problems on this path, but this government and this government coalition have decided to work differently, especially for the benefit of people, not for the benefit of individual, narrow privileged groups. Therefore, Your Honor, you have my full support.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. Perhaps only in defence to all of us who normally have a little shorter debate is not the length of the debate of the one that always reflects the quality of the debate, just for intermezza. First of all, we now have Mrs Sukič's procedural proposal. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, Mrs. Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u280	Madam President, I ask you to remind my colleague Pojbič that he has misused this debate to indicate a whole bunch of names and names of people who are not here, who cannot defend themselves and who have interfered in their free time, where they drink, where they cycle and so on. In fact, he gave us a list of those who will obviously be beheaded by a man who is no longer a minister under Article 115 of the Constitution. But obviously today we have just heard a list of future heads of the NPU, and I ask you to seriously remind him, because this is the precedent of all precedents, that in the National Assembly, on the basis of some conspiracy theory, we listen to such accusations of people who are not even in a position to defend themselves here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u281	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sukich. This was not a procedural proposal concerning the use of the Rules of Procedure. You are well aware that I must not get involved in the substantive discussions of Members, and I will not. Mrs Violeta Tomić also has a procedural proposal. Here you go. Do you have a replica? But you don't have time for the replica anymore, so I'm sorry. Mr. Koprivc, did you want to? Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I wanted to respond to these unjustifiable and unfounded accusations by Mr Pojbič. I mean, that's really unacceptable. The fact that you list the NPU staff and tell them that they're not connected to whom, and at the same time tell them that you've seen them, when and where they've been for drinks. I mean, that's really unacceptable. And the other thing about the media. I know, respected members of the SDS party, that you have media, independent media, thorns in your heel and that you want to subdue them. But that's so direct and direct that you say that the press needs to be checked. I mean, I'm sorry, Mr. Pojbich, it's already dripping over the edge. If there are any political commissioners, they are on Novi24TV, which is the only television you respect and that you would like in your ideal political system that you are building. I hope, indeed, that civil society will resist and that you will not succeed. You can see, however, that today, for example, Mr Pirkovic commented on national television that, obviously, it is slowing down, one step at a time, he is also trying to take over editorial policy in other media. After all, Janez Janša announced the swan song to Slovenian journalism in the early 1990s, and apparently in this third term he wants to finish this by the model of Viktor Orban, but as you say, you will not succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u283	Thank you very much. The applicant has now entered the floor. Mr. German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Vice President. Unlike Mr Pojbič, I will not dare to talk about the abilities of this, but Mr Pojbič, you have one ability. You've revealed so much extraordinary information to investigative journalists that you're a real golden pit. I only expose some of them. You said there was a visit between the Director of the NPU and the President of the Government. As far as I know, this is the first President of the Government, unless he's ever done this before to meet with the Director of the NPU. Secondly, you have exactly said that Mr Koshir has taken over the working group investigating Tonin. Two. Another time. You have said that Mr Maksimovic has taken over the group on migrants, in a way that has actually withdrawn all those investigators who have been working on the issues at stake for you. Third time, I'll tell you one more. This group was not called Mr. Jurič, so please correct me, Mr. Minister, but the government itself. So, do you even know what you're doing? You're shooting yourself in the knee! We do have a series of things that investigative journalists can now investigate what you've said and revealed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mr German obviously didn't understand me in a lot of things, so I've already told him how I feel about him in the first place. Second thing. I think it is still important that we talk here about the things that are crucial and important for this country and its future. Even if from what I've said today, whatever the press is looking into, thank God. Once again, something important will open up, and we will find that my words were very close to the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Hoys wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u288	Thank you very much. I, too, would like to respond to what Mr Pojbič said, particularly those gallbladder attacks on names. Obviously, Members must not name the names of individuals employed by the NPU, Mrs Sukičeva even said what anyone cares about, who she meets, where bikers or something like that. But apparently we and the ministers have to answer when and with whom we had coffee for weeks before we were ministers. Yeah, that's what Mr. Bandelli asked me. Mr. Bandelli asked me when and where and with whom I had coffee for months before I was secretary. Even more, he said that I had already agreed when I didn't even know I was going to be a minister, how we'd be working on protective equipment. Yeah, look, you're the opposition, you're signed under my interpolation. The second thing I would like to say is this criminal anonymous accusation, which Mr Pojbič also spoke about. As you know, this anonymous complaint was first published by POP TV. I still don't have the information today, but I didn't get the paper where there'd be a sign that this anonymous suit was ever filed with the D.D.T. I didn't see that. POP TV posted this. Like, for example, POP TV posted earlier information, this is also an answer to Mr Bandelli that in the Derby investigation there were bananas before there were any investigators. Unbelievable! Ladies and gentlemen, this is now an appeal to all things, of course. If it's not unusual or extremely inappropriate for the police to be investigating supervisors, then it's something amazing. Mr German, given what is now being read here and what is being written here, what I hear, you can expect – under the terms of noodles of course, under the terms of – I don't know if this is going to be the way the NPU will start investigating you because you were controlling them. The NPU is apparently investigating Mr Tonin, so they say, apparently Mr Mahnič. But do you imagine the European Parliament, where the police would supervise, investigating the parliamentary supervisors? I can't imagine. I can't imagine, I can't imagine, and that's why we're talking, in my opinion, relative to the politicized police. Now let's not be wrong about why I don't think the police are doing their job optimally, and let me be clear here once again. Throughout my term of office, I have repeatedly said that the uniformed police, the transport police are worthy of their trust to do things professionally, honestly, to prove themselves in the time of the co-vide and to deserve all praise. So don't talk casually. Of course, I have said this, and I believe that I am not alone in that it is incomprehensible that certain things will not move anywhere for years or years. Years and years of things that the NPU should do, or the criminal police, or the part that I think is politicized. The case of Jankovic and Electa – years and years nothing. Maybe it's nothing. And the Derby banana case, and we're waiting and waiting and there's nothing. But it's gonna be something or it won't be, or it won't be anything. Either they'll tell you, but there was either heroin smuggling or there's no heroin, or we'll only hear on POP TV that the cameramen will be there before the investigators are there. One of the affairs that, in my essence, firmly challenged confidence in the police took place years ago. I think it's 12 years ago or 14 years ago. I don't know if you remember her. I was on my own at the time in construction. The public opening shall be determined after an analysis is made that the diskette has changed color. Do you remember this case? SCT and color disks. At the opening, I don't know, yellow, three months from now, this disk gets green. The price is also different all of a sudden in this offer. I think he's 15 years of this. Did something happen? Nothing happened. They haven't even been able to look into what happened when this disk changed color. I don't know if they found out that the diskette was glowing, which means it was green first, and then red, just like what kind of fruit. For example, TEŠ 6 — years and nothing. Nothing's happened today. Let's hope it does. Finally, it's a court case. The Magain case. You can imagine, the Magain case. An MP in the National Assembly, when sparrows on the branches chirped because he supported the RTV Act, so the gentlemen on the left will punish him. And they're very mean. They hanged him from pedophile, you know, something like that. And what happens at the end? In the end, the police can't find his disk. There's no computer. What they charged him with for years was muddy, processed, and in the end, they couldn't find his computer. They can't find him a burden of proof! Is that professional for you? Is that professional for you or is that political? Case Jankovic and pharmacist. Years and years, in the end, in this case, it is necessary to give recognition to the police, and in the end, the political part of the story is taken over by the prosecution and the judge, who, of course, betrays the evidence obtained. Betrayal, no longer valid. Is that political? Case NPU, business building. Did something happen out there? Remember, rent a house, overpaid annuities, which are higher than the value of the facility, so you can end up getting the building refunded with rent. Did something happen? Not that I know of. An example of Bulmastif. Did something happen? In years, nothing has happened, everything is political, non-political, everything is professional, everything is high-quality NPUs, criminals and so on. Well, in the case of the Bulmastifs, they had an ugly betrayal of the prosecutor who was working on this case. Then we have quite a few cases, which happened years and years, but in the end it wasn't any of them. The case of Brother. Do you remember the Bratsek case? We're looking into it. Nothing at all, so a politically mounted process in my opinion. The case of Janez Janša. I prefer not to list the processes and cases he has had in the past 30 years — nothing at all. The Kangler case, my associate, 18 failed cases — nothing. The Blacklist case. Even a four-year-old battle in a court investigation, foreclosure proceedings, bullying and so on, nothing out of nowhere. [[…]] So, honourable Members, I think there is a need for common forces to be tense here, you have to say bob beans, and actually these three systems that I'm talking about, so the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, have to be done in a way that will be different in this society, in this country. And that, honourable Members, we can only do this together, both left and right, if we talk about what we cannot do, what we cannot do, how we are all independent, until then it will be no different.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Respected to wake up a little. Good evening! I would just like to warn the Minister, I think it would be time, or I'm not surprised, because this minister does not understand what the Ministry of the Interior and what the Ministry of Justice is, that the actual investigations are directed by the prosecutor, but not by the police, especially in these cases that Mr Pojbič has mentioned and has revealed the fact that they have actually moved the criminals who have worked on the Mahnic and Tonin case because they have given them to migrants not to investigate Tonin and Mahnič. That's what he said. I don't know if you understand, not you, not him. But anyway, I wanted to tell you the following, that in fact, after you took over the Financial Administration in the SDS, the Statistical Office, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the NPU twice, you still don't understand the difference between who has to lead something and it's completely, completely clear. You know what's interesting about this whole story? That indeed Mr Pojbič has revealed many of the data of your colleagues, in which you should first of all, you are the Minister of the Interior, you must protect your colleagues, no matter what you think of them. I'm talking about cops, criminals and everyone else up the ladder. And you're wondering if any investigations are initiated against politics. But, Mr. Secretary, isn't it any wonder you're being investigated today? You were investigated yesterday. Isn't it any wonder that people who have been investigated get that kind of function? No wonder politics is being investigated. Many politicians are corrupt. The problem is that corrupt politicians take such a responsible place. This is a problem; not that the police are investigating politics, but that corrupt politics is leading the police. This is a corrupt country, respectable Hoys. And here we must all, as you say left and right, fight together against these, not left and right, but against corrupt politicians. To those who are actually persecuted not only by one complaint, this happens to everyone, not only with two, but with several acts that they repeat throughout their career. These people, and these people, many of them, are now taking important places in your government. That's the problem, respectable Hoys. The rest is a showdown and a fairy tale for a good evening.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u291	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor, and Mr Robert Polnar is preparing. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u292	Thank you very much. It's a late hour, maybe I'm hearing a little bad too, but I'm trying to focus on the words of Matjaž the German, who's as a candidate, and all the opposition Members who are talking today about that simply Minister Hojs is no longer a minister. I've been hearing this all day, and you've been talking. If there's no minister for you, you shut up, you get up and you go. Don't you? I don't know. You say that and repeat it like one mantra, every one that begins – you repeat! I don't know, I think this interpolation is really a lack of facts, but it's also an idea, for a show of people, and for a greater distribution, it's mainly for a rule on the left block. This shows only who will be louder and who hopes that he may get some more vote in the elections or some more support. Today's red thread of interpolation is a possible unplayed concert that has become in these difficult times, tense times really a political issue, a first-class issue that brings greater division, greater political tension and brings me again, you know, that the concert has not been performed, but you are still talking about one concert. It reminds me of the matter: in an unknown place, unknown where, at an unknown hour – doesn't it? But it's really a little too much of your suspicions of strangers, and I think at this hour, at 11:00 or almost midnight, that people have enough to tell you what's wrong. Of course, our constituents, our fellow citizens, are watching us, and about Iranian money, the lady wrote to me: "Because of the washed billions, water is still foaming through Slovenia, especially in Ljubljana."
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal first, Mrs Sukič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u294	Yes, thank you. Can you please, Madam President, warn my colleague Dimic to read Article 115 of the Constitution before he offends the Members and Members we are discussing here today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u295	Thank you very much. I believe she heard your proposal, so I won't repeat it. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, do you have Nimati? [[…]] Mr. Duck has a replica, please. [[advertising from the hall]] Can I? But you can calm down, fellow SDS. Mrs Sukič had a procedural proposal, not a replica. Mrs Tomić wanted a replica and I did not give it because they no longer have time in the Left Group. So your excitement is superfluous. Now he's got a replica, Mr. Duck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u296	Thank you. My colleague Iva wasn't here the whole time, and I said that I'm not personally dealing with whether or not the Minister has resigned because he somehow told us that Janša and I were joking about this resignation. As this now prevents the constitutional issue of the President of the National Assembly, there is another story. The truth is, you threw Aleš Hojs out of the party. And who has the worst to say about him is your ex-partners in the N.N., Mr. Hoys, and I'm not here to talk about what's nice about you. But with regard to the Iranian story, there were fewer potential proliferations than five, and even a circular could cut off one. I can say this, I can't do this anymore, unlike any colleague who's been slapping anything from Knovs, even though he's in a closed session. So much so that we can talk seriously. For decades, he was laundering the money of the Italian mafia and the Balkan mafia, and nothing moved. Here, too, I agree with Mr Hojs that this should be settled and, as Matjaž said, because probably the prosecutor does not initiate any proceedings, which is a little bit, I don't know, free after Pojbič. I would also like an answer, Mr Hojs, whether there is a law enforcement department on the NPU.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u297	Thank you very much. He wanted the word. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, what do you want? Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Madam President, I ask you kindly to warn Mr. Duck. I don't bite, I do. Dear colleague and everyone else, all I said was what was public and what was public. Your colleague was really abusing things, and I know you have no argument here. But, Mr. Duck, you get to know everything this way; but when you can't, you die a little.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert. This was not a procedural proposal regarding the use of the Rules of Procedure, and as I did not remind you of your choice of speech, I will not. This way we can continue the debate. Did the proposer want a word if I saw it right? Mr. German? No, I'm sorry, and then we'll move on. Mr Robert Polnar has the floor and Mr Ljubo Žnidar is preparing himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u300	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Republic of Slovenia is declared anti-fascist, but fascist sensitivities are acquired in Slovenia an unhindered area for political expression. I'm going to speak under a sentence that says normal people don't know anything's possible. Practical counsel teaches us that the wiser is yielding. Does this mean that we must leave the world to the less intelligent? That smart people have to retreat to those places that less smart people will never want? Or it means that the smart ones have to back off in order for the less intelligent ones to get to exactly where they've come to belong to themselves. Let them unhinderedly follow their inner voice. To the foolish, his wasteness opens up as a challenge if we've met him properly. That is to say, if we give in to his intentions or simply ignore him, he will disappear in his own wasteland. Any stupidity must be left to its inevitable self-destruction. The ancient Greeks, for example, had established such types of delicate seismographs of normality. Hence, they could have been particularly inspired creators of the future. Don't read it to me, please. It's been a long time since the ancient drama has taken hold for a lifetime. Sophocles of the Antigon, upholding general and codified principles. We forgot that Creon was right about the legal position. However, Antigua's civil disobedience was justified by the views of ethics and justice, which are not necessarily codified by law. That is why our need today is to sharpen our own critical consciousness. Understanding that the position of the judicial and executive branches of power is relative and that their procedures are often motivated by personal interests. They may also be in total conflict with the public interest, so it is necessary to act on behalf of human dignity and humanity. For both are not necessarily standardized in order to be respected. Slovenia is a member of the European Union. The European Union is an idea born of physical and moral desolation after World War II, caused by fascism. Fascism favored by verbal and written ingenuity is therefore an extremely specific phenomenon in modern Europe. We are shown in attempts to equalize fascism and communism, with two major fascist exorcisms being brutally and shamelessly destroyed; racism and genocide. In reality, however, they are an incorruptible national disgrace and, above all, proof of the non-adaptability of Western European civilization. The bureaucratic transfer of the work of the judiciary and the work of the executive branch in the event of the Maribor concert suggests a devastating breakdown of all values. With a breakdown of respect for human dignity, with impudence and arrogant narcissism, with butal provincialism, with clan attachment to themselves and their own, conditions are established when no one has the right ideas for what to do. Thus, the likelihood of vulgar populism is increasing greatly, as well as the frequency of morally perverted acts. The most dangerous long-term result of such decomposition is the loss of the ability to recognize actual dangers and separate them from the apparent ones. What comes from the general belief that all are equally corrupt? The fact that those shortsighted tribunals, which have a legal theory day in and day out in perjury practice, unpunishedly afford anything that comes to their head. Because a large enough number of people have become insensitive enough to the differences between the accused and the convicted, between the guilty of crimes against decency and those responsible for poverty and exploitation, for the differences between petty frauds, large fraudsters and criminals of various degrees. The protagonist's music style for the time being was and remained a mixture of shepherd's rock, Macedonian folklore and solid rock. But it was never just music at Perkovic's. From the beginning, his music was a self-legitization machine, and so on in itself a machine for political exclusion. Texts, music, stage props, concert experience acted as a latent ideological text that afirmated “we” and that “we” was the idea of real people; real nationalists and chauvinists, with a strong base in the clerical ideology, according to which foreign religion is also a foreign nation and the foreign nation is a base and by definition an enemy. The entire attractive potential of his parapolitical rock is built on the idea of separation – on us and on them. The first Croatian patriotic throat became an icon of Ustasha idolatry over the years, singing happy tens around the world about concentration camps. To this day, it has not yet been fully clarified what its claustic success is in terms of freedom of speech, which it does not. In one of the fighting songs he magnifies the Ustarian criminals Pavelić, Luburić and Francetic, celebrates the massacres and massacres of Serbs and expresses the hope that the dogs will be sexually associated with the mother of the then president of the Croatian government and the mothers of his constituents and voters. 100% Croat, Ustasha sympathizer, national pirate. Most countries of the European Union prohibit him from performing because he does not understand his poetry, they think he is a neo-fascist to spread racism and international hatred. He is not allowed to sing oral leaps, but he explains to them that he does not sing them with evil intents, but purely inspired, folklore, with a refined aesthetic substance without social conditionality, he would say larpurlaristically that all together outside all ambiguity is patriotic poetry without hints and ambiguities of violence or negative emotions. Perkovic was literally a state ceremonial artist in Croatia over a period of time, but such a position had to be faced with realities beyond the borders of his country. This is where it is considered to be what it really is, the ultranationalist ideological orator, which begins the concerts with the first half of the fascist cry, and if the audience is in a good mood, further cheers it up with songs about Ustak concentration camps. There are no alternative truths about it in the normal world, so there are bans on concerts in civilized Central European countries, such as Austria, Germany or Switzerland, because they recognize it as an extremist, even though it is part of the Croatian State Protocol. But something like this can't happen to him in Slovenia. So much for the central European orientation of Slovenian conservativeism. In a country where so-called positive laws prohibiting the spread of fascist propaganda are at least little respected, his concert should be the occasion for the urgent engagement of the authorities of state repression. However, the Administrative Court and the Ministry of the Interior have decided to take care of Perkovice's human rights, including his moral image of something, and in this regard to demand respect for freedom of assembly and association, freedom of speech and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. So we found out about the thing that, after everything we've seen and heard, probably represents judicial innovation. The Court and the Ministry take care of Perković's human rights, so that no one can defile his honour and reputation, but that honor and reputation must remain as they are conceived and defined. The glorified Croatian patriot has the moral right, according to this logic, not to be associated with his own creativity. The Court and the Ministry decided to protect Perkovic from the Ustakian abominations organized by this same Perkovic at their public concerts. So why is the whole operation being conducted under the protection of human rights? Because a playful patriot has the right at his concerts to glorify the Ustarian criminals and to call for the slaughter of Serbs, but no one can and does not have the right to display it or to accuse him as a propagandist of Ustat slaughterhouses. Perković's voice will thus be able to call on the mass massacres of Serbs in Slovenian to the best of his will precisely because the singer claims that he does not defend it and because he is already in the classic cowardly pose of all Ustashophils. “The fact that I sing in the glory of the Ustasha slaughterhouses has nothing to do with me. When I act like a mouth, I’m out of my mind.” That's embarrassing! Acceptance of perkovice's hypocrisy as a general principle can be reflected in the general state condition, represents the mode of vivendi of the present state-favouring idea, a dignified trauma that does not lose its intensity and happily aspires to eternity. But there is something even more hypocritical, more hypocritical than the ban and its abolition and Perković's quasi ideology. This is when defended by human rights arguments of freedom of assembly and assembly and freedom of speech when a pirate who builds his favorite through exclusion defends himself with arguments and rhetoric about the protection of human rights. Such work is a practice in which the Court and the Ministry have worked out. It grieves our intelligence, so it is crucial to make a difference between symbolic and material, between discourse and institution. It is therefore against the questionable songs, slogans, symbols and conflicts in the area of collective memory that distract attention from the problematic institutions in which bad things are cemented. The country is in itself problematic, contradictory and unarticulated. Symbolic discourses, political practice, as well as some state institutions, deny its anti-fascist foundations. Madam Members, ladies and gentlemen, the uprising is an archetype of collaboration and every sympathy with it has a direct link to our then situation in spring 1941. The situation at the time was neither comfortable nor secure. Because of repeated repetitions of things, we were Slovenians, and we were determined to end ethnically. The Nazi apparatus was prepared to carry out the act by means of a rapid procedure, brutally, without the choice of means and even the smallest resistance was therefore a game with its own head. In the first few months, Hitler’s machine was able to empty the Kozian population, evict some tens of thousands of Styrians, especially intelligence with the clergy. People would pick red posters with bekanntmachungs about gunmen, consume bad words and earrings if they tried to speak in their own way at school. All of this ridiculous and truly dark, frightening experience of war later added to the context that someone who has not experienced all of this on their own has not yet been able to perceive. The decision to take an active and extremely risky stand in Slovenia at that time was not a cabinet or a political issue. Whoever decided to do so has deliberately put his life at stake. Political factors in Slovenia, which wish to honor today's decision to voluntarily political military and police collaboration of Slovenian citizens with fascist invaders during World War II, are now very fortunate to bring the Slovenian public on the wrong track of thinking about the eligibility of that sad decision. Quite a part of the public accepts their thesis that it was a decision between two fractures, between fascism and communism. The Collaborants reportedly chose a lesser evil — to cooperate in the fight against greater evil, against communism. After seven decades, in the light of the end of communism and the victory of liberal democracy, it seems logical that the choice of collaborators was correct even during the occupation, even though it was contrary to the historic framework of the United Nations war against fascism. Collaborants are expected to be even wiser and more farsighted in finding a true enemy. This logic has leapt into today’s politicised thinking because it has succeeded in wiping out two other historical facts that are really fundamental to assessing the decision to make voluntary collaboration. The first is the fact of the occupation itself, which raises a question before all the citizens occupied about their civic loyalty or infidelity. Voluntary cooperation is, in any event, a violation of civil loyalty and is generally covered by criminal laws in the category of high treason. The second fact is that the misidentification of the two fundamental ideological blocks, which in Slovenia, were at odds with each other on Slovenian soils in modern times. It wasn't fascism and communism. Fascism was present as an invader. In contrast, Slovenia's specific radically right-wing and exclusive authorities have become used political Catholicism and specifically Slovenian socialist or revolutionary socialism. In the historical situation of the nation, the first failed to decide on the resistance, but for voluntary collaboration, such as that of history, cannot be erased. In Slovenian history, it remains a legal and moral unacceptable act. Another advantage was that he chose to resist and thus acted in an appropriate manner to the nation’s position, and his inadequacy was longer. After the liberation of the country under attack and the rescue of the nation from the death threat, he contributed to the revolutionary realization of his social plan, not excluding violence. And here he finally turned out to be historically inadequate. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, those who forget the past are condemned to repeat it. Mr. Secretary, you resigned three months ago. At that time, I personally viewed this as an act of a rationally venerable husband. Now, in three months, your resignation has turned into a burlesque, which can only be interesting after its lower class, into a spring-free snake with no end and a place, completely inappropriate and inappropriate function that you perform. I think you can go quietly to an impartial cleaning room of time; and don't worry, your time will be just. The Council of the State, in this case the Ministry of the Interior, should remain empty for the immediate moral and labour strength of political change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u301	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Mr Robert Pavšič is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u302	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting from me! In all the interpellations so far, no interpelled minister has been as anxious as today's Interpelled Minister Aleš Hojs. In interpreting you read about Thompson's concert that was not and will not be, and the decision issued by the administrative unit as an administrative body. This Decision has been issued in accordance with the law, and this Decision has been issued in accordance with the decision of the Court. In any way Mr. Minister would have been involved here, it would have been my fault. This is not the case because everything is in accordance with the law and everything is in accordance with the court's decision. Pika. On the other hand, I would say that today's interpretation is very useful to me, and I think that for all Slovenian citizens, too. Very useful! Because today's interpolation shows some results, and I'll tell you what later. The previous government is experiencing the first shock on January 27th of this year. The resignation of Prime Minister Sarec, from today to tomorrow, has not even informed his coalition partners of his resignation. Such a cowardly retreat, I do not think that in the history of Slovenia I do not know if it has already been such a case. All coalition partners report to the media the following day that the Prime Minister has resigned. Neither the partners, their coalitions, with whom they worked together, built the program, sat together day after day, notified them. The next shock was when Mr. Janez Janša was able to form a government. But well, one big new problem. Of course, I would say that the next dissatisfaction of the left option is that in fact all ministers are starting to do well. This is now the largest thorn in the heel and now one by one has to be eliminated, given a house inquiry, media lynched, personally discredited; in short, everything is allowed here. This last shock, which is the most painful and this is also the core of this interpretation, is for Minister Hojs to look around at his associates. As work is measured in the economy, we all know very well. The end of the year is deleted, a financial account is made, if the indicator is plus, if some euro remains, then the company has done well. But if a negative occurs, it means that the company was working badly. In the public administration of services that are in a country that cannot be measured financially, however, there are other ways of measuring performance criteria and if you come as a minister to the field and do not actually have data such as performance, you order an audit. Give me the results of your past work on the table. Let's do it in a row. Put me on the table, what are the results of the investigation of irregularities in bank locations? We know that banks have stolen between €4 billion and €5 billion. How many people are there in the proceedings, how many are convicted and so on? Let's draw the line. What's the score? Zero, zero is the score. Zero! Let's move on. A billion laundered Iranian money. First, it is an internationally illegal act, and secondly, we know that very large commissions are being paid for such a deal. Experts estimate up to 40.50 percent, and this has happened and has happened in Slovenia. In this case, how many were convicted in the proceedings? Draw the line, score zero. It's a zero! Let's move on. Known families in Slovenia have written off over €40 million. Is that big money or is that small money? I played a little math game. There are 500 thousand families in Slovenia. And now we're writing down $40 million to 500 thousand families. I had to ask my colleagues here to count these zeros. Do you know what the number is if all families in Slovenia write off that debt? 20,000 billion. If we are all the same in Slovenia. 20,000 billion! And what's the result? Is there anyone here on trial who's been convicted? Draw the line, score zero. She's got zero score. Let's move on. During all these years, many places have been arranged in health care, including an investigator in the National Assembly. How many were convicted, how many procedures were open here? Draw the line – result of zero. Not to mention those ten cases that Minister Aleš Hojs listed. I only listed the biggest ones that have damaged the country of Slovenia the most financially. But there are a lot of such cases when we draw the line, the result of the investigations, the convictions – the result of zero. I can't assess the work of the police, the prosecution, the judiciary, because I don't know these departments, but I can assess the results of their work. And I know very well that the police, both in the D.A. and so in the judiciary, are extremely capable people. But these people are in the orchestra. In an orchestra of ruling options. The ruling option, this is what the current government says, and it conducts. And they were all staged. Keep your eye on it, put it in the drawer below, and don't open it for ten years. However, you must not touch this case; it is a ban on any touch and so on. In short, it's not that simple anymore. Because I know that the personnel in all these positions are professional, capable and could, if they were allowed to do so, easily solve the cases; they would also solve the cases and today have some result. We don't have one. Not a single one! Of course, I would say now that the biggest anxiety is here, because what this revision of all these procedures brings. It will lead to a plan which, at what time were they involved in these irregularities. I think a lot of people in our country are shaking their pants. Not just their pants, their butts are shaking. And they're shaking hard because they're big things and they're big places. And here's this nervousness, and here's the boomerang of today's interpretation of the minister, who just wants to see a little bit of what's actually going on and what's going on. Look, the purpose of this interpretation isn't just this concert and this decision, but it has a big and deep background. Whoever tries anything in Slovenia will be discredited in one way or another. One way or another. By force or by grace. I think we're pretty good somewhere. But we have good results – false accusations. We're very good here. But here we have excellent results. We've got false complaints and nothing to do with it. And we were good at servicing Kangler's tractor. It is true in years and needs a little more service, and 18 complaints had to be written. We were good there. So respect his tractor. Now maybe just for the end of one thing. I would say one river which holds very well in Slovenia that a lie has ten times more media efficiency than the truth. Now I can see very clearly why there is a lot of talk about the left-hand option under media power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u303	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Robert Pavšić, Mr Bevk alone is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u304	Good evening, everyone! What we are now listening to is a pure display of some triviality, banalization, political naivety, and theatricality. Clearly, some things need to be repeated more than once. For example, the government of Marjan Šarc, or Marjan Šarec, gave way to principle, and this government was created for only one reason, and this is opportunism. If the previous government had not resigned, a few Members, who were very loud today, would not have sat at all in this assembly. And then we hear, uh, debt write-off. Maybe the courts do write off people's debts, and you've managed to assign them to everyone, the whole country, within three months. You're doing good. Yes, you can do well if you rent 7 billion euros in credit, create 4.6 billion deficits, not 4.2, 4.6, because we have to add up what's left of the previous budget. If you so transparent and efficiently acquire excellent protective and medical equipment, which is then completely useless, on the wrong grounds, then you defend it, the government signs it, then even some mistakes are found in this report, but they are not corrected. With us, not with us, the truth is so relative to you that you can't even think about talking about it. No minister was as carefree as this one. Of course not, because he's already given up. He's already done his job. But I'd be worried about him, and I'd be worried about you, too, about all these people, and today, the last Fridays were going around Parliament, trying to tell you something, but it's some marginals, and the left-wings, and the lazy ones, and I don't know what else. The easiest way to think about it is to discredit people just because they want to say something, and you don't want to hear it. Today's event around the minister reminds me of one and only person who can come to this planet twice; Aleš Hojs is obviously Chuck Norris of Slovenian politics, despite his irrevocable retreat, is still where he was. But more than that, after his resignation, he was even more striking and took the lead. After the retreat. Why? According to him or yours, nothing happened at the Ministry or at the police investigation. Yeah, why didn't anything happen? Nothing's happened in the last 30 years. Who has been in here for 30 years, which political power has been creating this legislation, which has been implemented together for 30 years? Take note of each other and find solutions! For 30 years disability legislation has been passed, and now you're all wondering because it's not working. In 15 years, the number of regulations doubled. You're laughing. Of course you're laughing because that's funny. You have created, intentionally or someone has misled you, such a system in which everything is possible and can be hidden and that something can be brought around the bandages in the pockets of those on your side. You're talking about respect. Such insults as I have heard from your side today to all those who think otherwise, I haven't heard them in a long time, and I've been used to them. I've just decided on politics, I have to develop a little tolerance, and I can't be so sensitive, but not you guys talking about respect. Do you respect your word, respect your colleagues, respect your thinking? Of course, because SDS is synonymous with respect! And; do we understand today's subject matter, the concert? He hasn't even been here yet. It's not a problem whether the concert was or not, the concert is the reason for today's interpolation. Brutal beating of all sorts of standards of civilization, dictatorship, maneuvering, that's the reason. Apparently, this government is not only in violation of legislation, including the Constitution, Article 115, of the Rules of Procedure, Article 261 — okay, the Government cannot violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly if it is not here, but today the Minister obviously violates the Rules of Procedure. And even though these two violations are eccentric, we're still sitting here, we're deliberating. Aleš Hojs resigned because this country, at least in some segments, is still operating. If the whole country had worked, this government would never have been. Why? That was actually quite a rhetorical question. A lot of different perceptions have been said today. In short, classics, how to distract some attention from the heart of the event. But the one I've heard so many times wins is a pity for this 17-hour debate, because we could do something more useful. Hello! When we open substantive discussions in four PKP packages – did you say anything to our proposals? You've been quiet, you've been quiet, you've refused to explain any of our proposals! You also voted on the instructions when we all warned that you would make a mistake, you would run yourself over, and you passed us as a bulldozer by pressing your buttons without any critical thinking. Today it is different, today you are filled with the mouth of how this government is successful, how it works oh and everything you have achieved – yes, in three months you have destroyed this country, not only financially, but morally. Yes, you're doing well, but for your friends and for those who help you with your work, and with public money. As soon as some institutions began to carry out their work and began to investigate these works, the Minister of the Interior resigned. As soon as the state actually did what it has to do and protect public interest and public funds, the Minister resigned. There was no other reason, only the incompetence of the then minister, who acknowledged it publicly with a spoken word and written and later published. Today you do not deny that he has given up, nor do you deny it, because you cannot, but you cannot deny one thing, he has given up. And we're still sitting here and I'm going to sit here – it's not hard for us to sit here, speak for those and answer for your nebulos instead of those who can't do it and who walk every Friday not only around this building, but all over Slovenia. There'll be more because it doesn't go on like that anymore. Because you call it some new normality. Yeah, it's normal for a minister to direct investigations, try to direct the prosecution, prevent investigations, or speed up some of them that he prefers. Yes, normally, this government allows millions of euros to disappear, that's all normal, that's a new normality. And it's normal for this political suit to be relentlessly attacking anyone who thinks it's wrong. Because the attack is the best defense. This coalition excuses this – and I've heard it today, it's also strong – that the country needs them. No, it's not. You need a country! This coalition needs the state to park its part of the body where the back loses its worthy name in these chairs. That's the only reason. Today's event is just another proof of how current policy has reached a new moral bottom. Since you don't think it goes any lower, they always surprise you. Where's the honor, where's the pride? Are you a man? Are you a man of your word? I guess you didn't. Of course, you will survive this interpolation, but rise up because of your devouring word never again; your own uprightness, your own spine. This is today some kind of perfect jamrological convention. You're all just saying something about how this is all about how terrible injustices happen to you. [[…]] What about the injustices of the last thirty years of people who cannot survive honest labor? They can't survive. Or they can't get to a doctor right now. These aren't injustices, no. You're wrong because we don't understand that you've given an irrevocable withdrawal and then you've changed your mind. There are some things that cannot be undone, even though they are irrevocable. This interpolation isn't just against you, you've already said your thing. In fact, you agreed with the consequences of this interpretation on June 22nd. Now the only thing that remains fair to you, as a man who can be honest with at least what he says, is that you formalize your promise and your statement to the public. Form, complete this agony and say goodbye from the Slovenian political space – at least until the next reference. That's all you have left. At the end of the day, when the vote is over, everyone claps — you will certainly applaud, with joy, we have already experienced this. Despite proven fraud, I don't even know what we're talking about here, if you said you weren't going to do this anymore. [[…]] And you will clap, and you will be the winners. For such a Pyro victory, you will be proud only to come home or to the car. But when you get in the car yourself, you can think of what you're doing, and I hope you have at least a little bit of self-criticism in you to find out that every single thing you're going to do, but it really can't be perfect, and I don't know exactly what else. And we're all just the rest of us who like to tease you, throw your pollen, and I don't know what else. Yeah, we've only been half-taught in the last year, but I hope we're doing this a little bit more on the level, because you're writing your own interpretations, you're writing your own resignations, you're just taking nothing to the end. That's all it is. So today all of this vocabulary is completely meaningless. Be upright, man of word, and finish what you have already decided. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. He'll be followed by a magician. Diane Jedhan. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u306	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In some normal, refugees and societies with a longer democratic tradition, they would not even discuss the interpretation put forward, as this opposition instrument was followed by the irrevocable resignation of the interpeeled minister. But with us, in Slovenia, anything is possible. The story of the irrevocable resignation of Minister Aleš Hojs sounds rather comical, although it all borders on grotesque or tragic comedy. Interpellation was filed on June 8th, and Minister Hojs replied to it on June 24th. After police investigations with his colleague Zdravek Počvalšek, who was obviously unable to prevent them, he resigned irrevocably on 30 June and informed the President of the Government in writing. If we lived in a normal and politically regulated country, the story of the interpretation and resignation of Minister Hojs would be over. The President of the Government, Janez Janša, should have resigned because it was an irrevocable resignation, but this was not because the President of the Government did not notify the President of the National Assembly of the resignation of Minister of Interior, Aleš Hojs, as provided for in Article 261 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The latter says that the President of the Government shall inform the President of the National Assembly in writing not later than seven days after receipt of the Minister's written declaration of resignation. The Minister shall be deemed to cease his duties on the date on which the Meeting of State is informed of his resignation. That didn't happen. It's been going on for the third month, and the envelope on irrevocable withdrawal is still not open. Minister Hojs, with his resignation, apparently glued so heavily that Janez Janša could not or could not open it. I propose that the Prime Minister call for the help of the famous Professor Balthazar of Zagreb. I believe that, along with Balthazar, the envelope on the Secretary-General's irrevocable resignation will be successfully opened and that this bizarre story will end. I can be wrong, but I am sure that Minister Hojs has resigned with a fig in his pocket, because the statement – I quote – “the udbov-party structure of the decisive police department is so strongly anchored in the system that, under the existing legislation and powers that I have as a minister in relation to the police, it does not allow effective depoliticization and changes in the police” – Mr Hojs could only afford it as a minister who has made an irrevocable concession and thus increased the pressure on the police and investigative authorities. And now to the Thompson issue. I will not go into complicated administrative and judicial proceedings between 2017 and 2020 concerning the ban and authorisation of a concert in Maribor, because in the end you no longer know who drinks and who pays. However, it may even happen that the concert organizer will sue 150 000 euros from the country with interest as a result of the alleged illegal ban on the concert, in ridicule of Slovenian cultural creators who are almost completely blocked and at the brink of survival due to the epidemic. But the fact remains that, in my opinion, Thompson's performance and, I hope to say, in the belief of the majority, the human dignity of the victims of the Ustasha system and their relatives would be offended. “For a home is ready” is the greeting that Marko Perković Thompson shouts at each concert, often with a high right hand. The use of the Ustakian password is a regular part of the scenery and iconography of Thompson's concerts. That should be enough to stop the concert. On 5 June 2020, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia also reaffirmed the clear correlation between this password and the Ustakian regime, with the repeated view that the Ustakian Password for Home is not ready in accordance with the Croatian Constitution. On its website, it stated that regarding the greeting of the House, the Constitutional Court, in its previous decisions, had already expressed a clear position that it was the oral greeting of the Independent State of Croatia and that this greeting was not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The European Court of Human Rights has also found that for the home, an official greeting from the Independent State of Croatia is ready. Your Honor, I walked by the German Embassy in Ljubljana a few days ago. At the time of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, an exhibition was presented at the fence with large boards where they presented the programme objectives of their Presidency. One of the boards bears the title Responsibility from the past, where it says, I quote, “a lot of people were killed in Slovenia during World War II. Reconciliation with European neighbours and the preservation of the memory of Nazi crimes are the main objectives of German policy." Since we are chairing the Council of the European Union together with Germany, I propose that such an action is an example for us, but there will be no temptation with various very controversial concerts and similar manifestations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u307	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Jedhan will be followed by Alice Jeraj. Mr. Jew, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u308	Mr Vice President, dear Members, dear Members, representatives of the Government, Mr Hoys, a fine evening for all to attend! At first, I want to read something and then explain why I read it. “Our country was created and originated in circumstances where we decided firmly and clearly that we do not want the government’s will to respect human rights and that no one, although democratically elected, has the right to manage the country as if it were its own feud. That is why our Constitution has made it very clear to the independent branches of government, so by law we have firmly intertwined the politicians and elected officials in interfering with professional and independent institutions such as the police, the prosecution, the defence forces, the judiciary and independent regulators, who together make sure that in this country, not only on paper, they are all the same before the law." Mr. Hoys, we don't really know each other very well. I don't know if you remember the first conversation we had at 1 1:00 a.m. when you were the minister, I was then the opposition MP, you called me because you had the feeling that I said something that didn't keep clean. I don't know if you remember that, but that phone conversation night was really nice, 'cause we were just exchanging information. Later on, I think we met once when I was a minister, and you, in another function, even that conversation, I don't even remember the contents anymore, didn't leave me as uncomfortable in my memory. We got to know each other more seriously or talked when we invited you as a member group to discuss your desire to be able to give additional powers to the military. You remember that, that was, I mean, room 212 of this House. That conversation remained in my memory after the following: you spoke convincingly – even today you showed that you were a good speaker – you spoke to the grill, the only thing you probably did not expect a serious political party to do despite all that the Minister of the Slovenian Government was also hearing. That conversation left me in a kind of embarrassing memory because you were deceiving us there. You have deceived us with numbers, as far as the threat or pressure of migrants is concerned, you have shown us only the initial numbers, not the current numbers, which were significantly lower than in the previous year, and you have deceived us from the point of view of how you have full support within the police. That's what I remembered. From then on, I know we have to be careful, but this was my first experience with you then, of course, I have followed the loud, less public-accessible conversations you had within New Slovenia, but in Slovenia we take this more as political folklore than anything else. But why am I telling you this, Mr. Hoys? I didn't even know what the reasons were, I was even a little surprised when we heard your statement at a press conference about your irrevocable resignation. You always give up, the word is very clear, and I don't even want to explain it. I thought you decided, you're already a former minister, probably this coalition that has enough votes will bring someone new. That is why there was no interpolation before parliamentary holidays, and I am actually talking to you now that I do not even know exactly what function I am talking to you in. I didn't like what you did today. A government that realizes that the numbers, as far as the newly infected are concerned, which we discover every day, are the fact that we test more, so that percentages were not significantly higher than a thousand examined, but rather limits. It is not the same as in some other countries, where it is trying to set a positive example, by talking, but especially by trusting citizens to convince them how to do so. It's just that this government is limiting, and that's the way it is. You surprised me very much when you tried to remove your mask. Where the Vice-President is now sitting, the President of the National Assembly has reacted correctly. But I didn't like it because people saw it. Those people from whom we want to act extremely self-protective. But why am I talking about this? I'm talking about this because I just assume you don't care so much what people think because you want to go the other way. Not the hard way, the hard way is, of course, the path of persuasion and trust, the easier way to easily threaten with repression. But why am I telling you this? Because I believe we all have a similar goal here. Our country is young and we want our country to function well. I believe we are united here. I also believe that it is totally unacceptable for us, but some serious affairs that are recognised as such in the general public and also among us are not being explored because they allow us to live in a mud pool. One side accuses this side, the other side that they're basically political affairs, and I believe they're not. I believe that there are always individuals somewhere who have done what is ugly and must be punished. In this area we are not where we would be, but I believe that in essence the desire is one: we want to live – if you want to, I also use the term – in a somewhat boring country where the affair does not appear every day, but a new affair, but where it is sanctioned and we move on together. But the problem is somewhere else, Mr. Hoys. The path we see is different. I believe that we who sit on this side see the way so that we can strengthen and give them resources and the possibility that those institutions that have to be independent, because this is the way the Constitution speaks or the general social order, that they have the opportunity to professionalize and become even more professional, but of course that they are observed all the time. That's one way. But I think it's right. On the other hand, it is possible to intervene in good or not in good faith in these institutions. I'm afraid this is the path you wanted to take, a shortcut that is never really good for any country. And that's why, Mr. Hoys, I will vote today to take the final step in what you informed us months ago. So you're irrevocably leaving your current job. Of course, I wish you well in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj has the word, and he will get the word for it for Rudy Bear. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u310	Thank you for your word. After a whole day of explaining whether Mr. Hoys is still a minister or not, you look ridiculous not to say comical. It looks like all your professional associates wrote this in a reminder. All those who have a little more healthy brain, Mr Minister said that he has resigned, the President of the Government has not accepted him, and that is it. Anyone who wants to understand understand understands, but obviously for some Members this is too much science fiction. Read Article 261 of our Rules of Procedure to inform the President of the Government of the resignation of the Minister in writing. It is considered that the President of the Government or the Minister has ceased to function when the Assembly of State was informed of the resignation. We haven't been informed of the resignation, so the Minister is with all the powers and not the Minister, and I don't know what you've said here, and you're acting like we have this situation for the first time. We've had a whole bunch of cases in the past. One of us is a little longer here, and then we know these things: The marble foretold the resignation of Mr Cerar, and Jerjavec did not accept them, then Žerjav Janša in the first, so the other government did not accept him, the Lakhovnik of Pahor, Kresalov of Pahor, did not accept him. So nothing new and nothing special is happening. It is true, however, that you are one more new in Parliament and perhaps you do not remember that if you started to follow the policy when you came here. Besides, if ministers are doing well, why would they change it? We do not do this, unlike the Sharča government, which has replaced four ministers in one year. If the ministers are all right and they're doing well, why would they change them? This government works differently and keeps qualified ministers in places. But why did Mr Bandelli have to go, but he needs to talk to Mr Shartz, who has decided to do so. Apparently, for some, it is a real pain that Mr Hojs remains a minister, because it has finally begun to move somewhere. The surveillance you so read is a basic task. See, on the MNZ website, you can read, "in the Police Directorate and other security tasks, we carry out tasks for police guidance and supervision, we resolve complaints about police work" and so on. Moreover, there is also the Systemic Guidance and Control Sector of the Directorate. So there's nothing special about surveillance. They were also ordained by former ministers in the governments in which you were. For example, Minister Györkösov has never been troubled. Even for the same thing, for the purpose of investigating the laundering of Iranian money, Mrs Györkös ordered control, and you did not raise any problems at that time. It seems important to me that at last one minister asked what is happening to the most notorious corruption cases in this country. With things that could be said to be sparrows, people on the road are repulsed to chase a chicken thief, not a billion euros from an Iranian citizen of Farrokh. My friend Jani said that she went a billion over, and that has nothing to do with it. It has a connection because it has been exempt from certain commissions that all ordinary citizens have to pay NLB. Why was he forgiven for this? We know that there are always commissions in such transactions, and that is why we are interested in doing so. In this case, two proceedings are pending, as we were last told after the prosecution's recommendation, and one procedure is concluded. The procedure in which they determined whether the bankers abused their position or participated in money laundering. Although the same prosecutor had not yet established in the second case whether it was money laundering at all, in the first case he had already found that the bankers had not been involved in money laundering and had said that the suspicion raised by the commission of inquiry had not been substantiated or rejected. You could've read this, we've all read it, which means the process is closed. The Prosecutor found that there was no criminal offence of abuse of the position of the official and so on, and he did not hand it over to the court for the proceedings to proceed. That's what the Attorney General told us the last time, or representatives of the Special Prosecutor's Office. That's when I asked and asked again. Mr Farrokh washed a billion euros of money and was not interrogated in the procedures that the police were taking. I was interrogated by a criminalist when I was leading an investigative committee related to Mr Jankovic because one document, which had a code of secrecy, appeared in the newspaper. But there were others who had access to it, and it wasn't found out where it came from, but that's why the CSI interrogated me. But Farrokh was not heard; no one asked him why he had charged 20,000, 50,000 euros, Mika Misko and Jake Racman. If I were to wire 20,000 euros to Mika Misko, you think a bank clerk would ask me a question. He probably would have, and so would you. But no one asked Mr Farrokh: he was not asked by the banker, but he carried out the business, and neither was the policeman to ask him who was then on the other side, because Miki Miska had raised these 20,000 euros, and what was going on with it. You're very interested in the source of Diana Djudzic's money that we borrowed. We borrowed, took credit, were punished for not being able to do so, the money came back, and the matter was over for us. The source of money is identified by other authorities — to identify it. But you're very interested in the source of money there, and you're not interested here. But here's the problem, because the minister ordered us to look at whether the proceedings did everything as they had to. As I have already said, Mrs Györköseva has ordered control and has found that everything has not been done as it should have been done by the police. So we can point money at Mika Misko and Jake Racman, and no bank officer will ask us, even though when we go to pay the bill for the Power 9 Euros, we have to show a personal document and everything. Next thing you know, vascular braces. Three years, a lot of work, a lot of hearings, three years on the NPU, all proven on 400 pages. Annually, 2.5 million euros have been stolen through the veins alone. How many senior citizens' homes, how many emergency rooms, the other emergency facilities we need? Annually, €2.5 million. Is it worth investigating or not? And find out who earned it in these jobs. And there's no voice that whatever's going on, and now the minister's got control over whether anything's going on, and you're making this a problem. My fellow Jew, but I don't know who else said – we also want things to be investigated. Well, we should support the minister if he demanded control of what was going on. But not the other way around to limit it to the part he has to do. It's his job to control it. [[advertising from the hall]] Of course! I read it to you, you can read it again, but you can read it yourself. [[advertising from the hall]] We understand very well. “In the Police Directorate and other security tasks, we carry out the tasks of directing and overseeing the police.” Monitoring the police, what they're doing. Because, you know, everyone has to have control. He can't be independent, and I don't know what he's capable of, but he doesn't have any control. Every authority in this country has some control over itself, and that's the only right thing to do, because otherwise it's a question of how to do it. This is also what colleague Han said is that the rule of law is that colleague Kangler is not in prison. It's not a legal state. 15 complaints and proceedings against him, and they all end with an exemption, or they are not found to have been caused incorrectly or in any way, they are being investigated, they are spending money, they are interrogating, they are even doing drama, we are reading in the media, they are being read at work, they are getting him into health, I suppose I don't know how much money he's hiring lawyers, and then people are being dragged through the media and then the legal state is for you when they find out he's being pursued for free. [[…]] And so many people in this country. Look, it's not a legal state, it's not a legal state. The rule of law is that, at the outset, it would have been known that this procedure could not be completed because there is no basis, which has already been established through the procedure. So let us allow ourselves to suspect that things are not going as well as they should. That is why we also have a commission of inquiry in the National Assembly in this case, because in recent years we have been looking at more in the National Assembly than the law enforcement agencies that have been paid and trained to do so, here we are dealing with the prosecution of crime, instead of teaching those who have been paid for it. We've found more than investigators in the police, in the D.A., and so on. The last time we discussed the prosecution's report, the government representative told us that in 2005 between 31% and 41% of the things the prosecution rejected were rejected. Do you know how many there were in 2019? From 68 % to 71 %. That's two-thirds of it, two-thirds of it throws away the D.A., doesn't come anywhere at all, while the police have already investigated something, the police have filed an indictment against the D.A., and 71% of it is thrown out. No one will convince me that all the complaints they receive are that two thirds or 71 percent are not worth dealing with. That's why we're not searching anything in this country! I believe it's more of a belonging, people are more aware, they write some kind of application, and I don't say anything from everyone, and I don't think it's really justified, and I don't have to investigate, but if the police are investigating something, and the D.A. is refusing it, and that doesn't make sense to me, it probably doesn't make sense to me that the police have a case against the D.A., they've already figured something out and they've looked into it. Seventy-one percent of us have dropped cases coming to the D.A.'s office, and I think it's huge. 15 years ago, we had 30 percent. That's it. Comrade Bandelli, as well as some others, you told the Minister why the border is not closed, why so many illegal migrants of the year around the country. I would like to remind you that a proposal has been made to activate Article 37a and the SAB representative has abstained from voting, and all the other LMŠ, SD and Levica have opposed it. However, you were against this argument, explaining that now because of the co-vid, everything was closed, fewer crossings of illegal migrants, but in the summer months it will continue to grow and this year will also be. We had all this data, you were saying at the time that it was going down, the number was going down, and there was no need to act. Now that they're huge, yell at the minister for this government, why we haven't done anything, why we haven't closed the borders, why so many illegal migrants. Because you didn't support Article 37. Unfortunately, we don't have enough police officers to protect the border, and that's why the proposal was to activate the army. When this article went into the Defence Act during the Cerarian government, the SDS voted in favour of this because we are responsible because we behave differently than you. But you thought it was nice to have as many migrants as possible to make it worse for the government. But it's worse for everyone, not the government. After a while, the minister announced, we had a similar proposal in the National Assembly, and we will see how you will then act by those who now see why there are so many illegal migrants and why we have not arranged it. It's a shame to even discuss it. He said that we were doing good for our own – I don't know, his president hired nice Natasha, it wasn't for us, but it was for him and her, and we don't know what it is, whether something is being investigated or something is going to happen. And he said they were learning from us. We've never written such bad interpretations, look what we've ever read and done. Such interpretations that you're interpreting the minister because he was fulfilling the law, we've never seen him. We've been interviewing ministers for violating the law, and you're doing the opposite. I certainly will not support such interpretations, and I hope that the Minister will work for a long time to settle all these things that need to be settled.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Now, in a row. First Aljaž Kovacič, replica or procedural? It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u312	Thank you for your word, chairman. I have to respond, given that colleague Jeraeva actually insulted us all about what the experts wrote to us, but she lied twice, if I may say so, in her debate. First, she said they were in the past. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u313	Mr. Kovacich. Read Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure first and you will find out what a replica is.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u314	I'm saying what a replica is.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u315	No, she didn't regret that if she misunderstood you, she was a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u316	Yeah, she misunderstood us.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u317	You said "sorry". This is not part of the rules of procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, let's get this straight, no, first. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u318	Clearly, we were misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u319	Okay, here we go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u320	Because she lied at least twice, I said this, especially because she told us what the experts were supposed to say to us that we did not know that in the past, ministers had also resigned. What you said, you said yourself, the ministers offered to resign, and this was an irrevocable stepoff, and when you read Article 261 in the Rules of Procedure, you lied again, if I may say so, or you have not read it all, “the Prime Minister of your resignation or resignation of the Minister [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u321	Mr. Prebil, that's not a replica. Or Kovacic, that's not a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u322	inform the President of the National Assembly in writing. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u323	Look, Mr. Kovacic, Mr. Kovacic, look. I warned you earlier, debaters, the one you want to discuss. What you are saying is to continue the debate, if there is a time-sharing, you will be able to do this debate. [[advertising from the hall]] It's not a replica. And I take your word for it. Next, the next one asked for a procedural proposal from Sukič Natasha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Madam President, please remind the Member on behalf of maintaining the reputation of the National Assembly because she proposes unacceptable things, such as interference with the judicial branch of authority, which is completely independent and she is discussing all the time. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u325	Mrs Sukič, this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u326	No, I absolutely demand that you remind her. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u327	This is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u328	Because he's embarrassing us not to mention he doesn't know 115. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u329	You have had time to announce the debate, the controversy in this way is not permissible, according to the rules of procedure, unfortunately so. The next one has a procedural proposal, Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u330	Yes, Your Honor! Look at paragraph 75, so we can start right away so we don't have any problems. In the second paragraph, he says: “No one shall speak at the meeting of the assembly until the chairman gives him the floor. The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda." The hour is twenty to one in the morning, here we are almost sixteen in the morning and respected colleague Jeraj has not even mentioned the contents of this interpretation in her debate, but has touched on all other issues that are not on the agenda. I'm asking you so kindly to give her a reminder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u331	Mr Prebil, this wasn't a procedural proposal, I'm not going to give a reminder, because you've all talked about everything but the content of the interpretation. That's what I've already warned you about, including the editorials. [[advertising from the hall]] The next one with a procedural proposal is mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u332	I have a replica essentially, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u333	Or a replica, no problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u334	You're great. Thank you very much. [[Laughing in the hall]] Look, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, you have used a very cool strike relationship, “all those who still have healthy brains”, of course, in connection with whether we agree with you or not. I solemnly promise you here that ever, when you disagree with me, I will not insult you so much, and if any of our Group of Members do such a thing, I will do anything to sincerely apologize to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Now it is your turn to propose Matjaž German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u336	All those who usurp this place of yours speak for themselves. That's how it is for you, presidents, as it is for Mrs Jerajevo. And I'm gonna discuss it, and I hope you don't take my word for it. People are watching, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u337	You have the floor to debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jeraev would like only one thing, because Jake Racman, Miki Miska – are you referring to us? We've said it a hundred times today! I don't know where you came from today. It's almost one hour. I don't know where you've been. Strong Brezigar, D.A. Do you know who that is? This is Barbara Brezigar's son. You're telling us what the prosecution didn't do. These are people for the SDS client – with all due respect to Mr Jake Brezigar, because I don't know him – but that's how you select people, in this way. Minister Hoys is talking about some unionist from SD and he's addressing us, czech, a deep country everywhere. You, one of the biggest affairs of the affair, you assign to anyone else, so it's clear who led the prosecution's proceedings. You're replacing the concept completely. You expect Mr. Hoys to arrange for the prosecution. And that's wrong. This is wrong in understanding the division of power and the different exercises. Do you understand what legal order means, what different branches of government mean? Mr. Hoys doesn't understand that. Mrs. Jeraeva, you don't seem to be either. Mr Hojs can't pave the roads, can't predict the weather, can't even deal with the prosecution's work. That's clear. All except for the SDS, because a deep country has stopped its people for 75 years under the auspices of SD, LMŠ, Left and all others. If Nova Slovenije were not with you in the coalition, Nova Slovenija would also be part of a deep state, because it is the easiest because no one is responsible. They're the ones. But Minister Hojs can't solve problems in the courts and in the prosecution. He can't do that. He can't do that. Do you understand? He can't. Control. You mentioned surveillance. Mr. Hoys, 2019 has been set up. All right, all right. No problem. But what's the difference between the control you're talking about in the past and the random selection of cases and random revisions and random detection of if anything was wrong? Alesh Hoys, what did he do? Aleš Hojs chose selectively on which cases his control would take place at his will. This is the difference, respected Jeremiah, and that is to be understood. A cop can't save people in an ambulance. How else am I supposed to do that? You can say whatever you want, and you can make up whatever you want, and you've been sinking all day because you don't understand the constitutional order. And you want to show yourself this way: everyone's ugly, except you, and the only one who's right is you. Everyone else is quiet anyway. Because Desus is embarrassed, SMC is quiet, Nova Slovenija – they're long gone, you've been doing something all day. Minister Hoys is wearing a blouse. He doesn't even know what he's talking about. He doesn't know if he'd be in Cyprus on a plot to solve the problem or whatever.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u339	Comrade German, please be respectful. That you're respectful. Look, these things are unacceptable. You were Vice President of the National Assembly, and I hope you know that such things are not appropriate. And one more thing, you've adopted an ethical code and you stick to it. Not just a declaration, but in practice. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u340	I therefore expect those who should be aware of how important the Constitution is, how important the legislation is, how important the sharing of power between different people should be for everyone to deal with his or her area. This is what citizens and citizens expect from us. This is what they expect, these are real problems that we have to deal with, not talk about Mika Miska and Jake Racman, because this is not serious. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u341	Thank you very much. The replica of Alice Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u342	So when are you right? I never said we were the only ones right. When you're right, Matjaž, you're right, and there's someone else. You said you didn't know Mr. Brezigar, and I don't know him either, but you did determine that he was a member of the SDS and that none of us knew him and he's certainly not a member. Just because he's his mother and we supported her doesn't mean he's connected to us. I don't know him, you don't know him, and you convicted him. You've determined where it fits. That I don't understand what goes where and which branch of power and so on. The minister ordered the police to be supervised. When the police received a case for investigation, such as the rehabilitation of banks or money laundering in the bank, of course, they applied to the prosecution. Then it's the D.A. who directs and tells the police who needs to be interrogated and so on. But that doesn't mean that since then, there's no longer a minister in charge of the police, the prosecutor or anyone else. The police are still subordinate to or overseeing this department, the Ministry. But he's holding that? Yeah, that's right! After the Prosecutor has concluded, he shall determine after all the hearings and so on whether or not the case is before the Court and shall then initiate proceedings. Well, you'll explain to me if that's different. Things are connected, and when we talk about justice, we always take more segments, we don't just take the judiciary or just the prosecution or just the police. The D.A. has to prove that something was wrong, and it's because the state was damaged, that I don't know what was damaged, and it's going to court. If he finds out he hasn't collected enough evidence, he won't even go to court. Is that right? And he's the one who directs and tells the cops who to question. Miki Miška and Jaka Racman, a German colleague, directed money to these accounts by Jaka Racman and Miki Miška. I didn't make this up, and I'm not telling fairy tales, that's in the report you voted for. My point was that if I told you about Mika Mouse, the bank clerk would ask you for health or anything. But no one asked Mr Farrokh at the bank why he had allocated 100,000 euros to Mika Misko. And the police didn't question him and ask who on the other hand picked up the money. Whether he's a fictitious person or he's a real person and so on. That's what I was talking about, and that's in the report. And just this, I apologize for saying that I apologize to those who work on their brains. I'm sure your brain is fine, but since we've been talking about the same thing all day and the Minister's told us ten times why he gave up and how it was with the resignation, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Time's up. Time's up, buddy, I'm sorry. I hope you understand the answer now. First, I will give my word to the minister who asked earlier and then to the motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u344	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you also very much for Mrs Jerajeva's discussion. I will briefly read from this professional opinion, which I had previously discussed when I said that I would later read another part. So again, Mr Trpin, Mr Kavčič, Mr Grad and Mr Jerovšek. What I am about to read is not my blasphemy if I express myself with the insulting expression of Mr German, but it is the record of all these three experts. “There is a question of the constitutional principle of the independence of administrative authorities, which is carried out at legal level in a number of legal procedures led by administrative authorities. Legal proceedings, which have this principle particularly stressed, are criminal and administrative proceedings." So it's two procedures. “In the framework of this principle, no one can and must not give guidance to those who conduct and decide on these procedures on how to decide or what to do in a particular process.” So the thing is clear, no one should give these instructions. “This arrangement is perfectly logical, because only those who run the procedure have information about the actual situation on which they decide or act in accordance with the law and other regulations. However,” experts say, “this does not mean that those who exercise the function of hierarchical control over the authority in charge of the procedure cannot also exercise control over the conduct of the procedure. It is true that, within this framework, the Authority cannot determine what to determine, what rules it should apply, how it should decide and what measures it should take, but on the other hand, it can control the course of such procedures in terms of preventing non-execution or even abuse of power. Thus, for example, the Minister of the Interior must have “so he did not write it now, he wrote it back — so he wrote, he did not write. “for example, the Minister of the Interior, as well as the person responsible for the hierarchical control of the police, must also be able to control abuse in the predictive procedure, for example, special methods and means, or to use unauthorised methods in the hearing, and so on, although these procedures are in principle managed by the judicial authorities.” [[…]] [[…]] So, more clearly than it's written here, it can't be. “The latter have a supervisory function within the framework of a particular procedure, but they do not have the functions of direct hierarchical control, which the Minister must carry out under law.” So, more than clear enough. Now, honourable Members, there is a concrete case that is tragic, but I must say it because the Slovenian public will also hear what it is. So, we're talking now, I think it's been 15 hours, not if I'm right. So, I did the math right, didn't I? Somewhere. So, after fifteen hours of interviewing the proposer, unrelated to interpretation, but with everything else, the proposer tells us 15 hours that I have no authority and cannot direct the police. Watch out for open criminal proceedings. That's what Mr. German used to say for 15 hours. Look, we've had one tragic accident, and I think one month since the boy drowned in Socha, you probably remember that. You probably remember how the affected parents wrote to the media, how the police reacted inappropriately, how they actually concealed a whole range of those who should react, and what was the minister's first or normal reaction to order – to order control of police work. Do you agree? I guess so. So, from the moment this unfortunate boy drowned, he either accepted the case or directed the State Attorney's Office. The State's Attorney's Office has guided this procedure. A number of irregularities have been identified in the control. Of course, the police – of course it is necessary to speak to the police in this case, and it is very embarrassing to come to the parents and tell them that your child is deceased. So in this case, I understand the cops, but... It was found that the police had given the notice absolutely too late. It was found that the police, i.e. OKC, misdirected the person, i.e. the policeman who was supposed to lead and investigate the process, and there were some other minorities. That's what he found out about the surveillance. Now watch out. After Mr. German's explanation, which we've been listening to for 15 hours, my business has ended. I shouldn't do anything else because I don't have the right to direct the police in open procedures. This case was led by the prosecutor. But no, Mr. German, that's not gonna work, look. I wrote the mandatory instructions. I wrote mandatory instructions, I directed the police to do what they had to do, and I will do so in the future. So, you will find it difficult to convince me, me and the Slovenian public, not that such instructions, such guidelines, even if the process is open, I cannot write. According to your logic, according to your theory, which we've been listening to for 15 hours, everything that's led by the D.A. is unattainable to me. There's nothing I can do. Well, look, Mr. German, it's a complete scam, what you're saying. Now, I'm going to allow myself the same expression that you told me a minute ago that now I'm expecting your blasphemy. In the end, I'd say this. Mr Juden, I will be very happy if you say - you don't have to now, now I don't have time, because I am running out of time – with which numbers I have been deceiving. I'll be very happy. The numbers we talked about today are higher than we presented in February. Moreover, it is absolutely not true and certainly does not hold that there was no police support for the activation of Article 37a. On the contrary, the police have suggested it. When I arrived at the Ministry, the Assistant Director of Police spoke to me and said, look, we've been waiting for a while, please go with our proposal to activate the 37th Article in the National Assembly. The police suggested that, and you're telling me I didn't have police support! But if it wasn't union support, that's the other thing, one of them, of course. Now the union is going to say what it's going to do at the border and what it's not, whether it's going to be the police leadership. Well, please, we have a police director for that, and we have assistants for that, and we have those in the police who are responsible for doing what the police have to do. Once again, I think it's going to be soon given the numbers, I've already said this today, 10,000 migrants; that's a thousand 500 more than the same period last year. This also shows the good work of the police, that there will be no mistake, it shows that the police are working and that they are trying – ask the mayors at the southern border how much progress was made compared to last year. I believe that when we get back in front of you, you won't listen in your pocket again, and you won't support this activation at the end. But if so, then we will have to tell the Slovenian public again who it is that is, in fact, in the political part of this Parliament, who is blocking the protection of the state border.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u345	Thank you very much. I'm just asking because Mr. Jew has signed up, he has a replica. Can I give him my word first? First as a proponent, Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u346	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! I am very sorry that you have used a tragic event to tell the general public that the Minister of the Interior does not know the basic legal procedures of the Ministry that governs it. Dear Minister! One is a criminal procedure, the other is an event. You were just talking about the event. And I'll tell you more, you could even intervene in the criminal procedure if enforcement were to be used in the proceedings. Even that. What you've been saying is you're only proving your own ignorance, a man who runs such an important, important body, such an important ministry, thereby proving to yourself and the general public that you don't even know the basics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr. Jew, would you like a replica? [[No, no, ……]] Replica, Mr. Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u348	Yes, as a German colleague said, it is an event, not a crime, a respected minister. The master of the crime is the prosecutor and the police can, of course, exercise control in certain cases. The supervision may be carried out directly with a view to the documents or other material on police units, by talking to police officers, other police officers or individuals, and by direct observation of the performance of the work and tasks at a specific location. This is written for surveillance that the police can carry out. But what it says here, the prosecutor gets on the table, and the master of the criminal procedure is the prosecutor. If I say so myself, there's a chicken missing in the neighborhood. In this story, the police take a look, find out that the feathers are there, that some clues are there, and write a report or a complaint against an unknown perpetrator. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u349	Mr. Baković, do you have a discussion or do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u350	I have a replica based on that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u351	Look, this isn't a replica because the minister didn't get you wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u352	It's a replica because I'm not the Minister [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u353	I'm sorry. Here's your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u354	He didn't get me right, so I'll just try to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u355	I'm afraid it's not. Look at the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u356	It is this, Madam President, that the Minister has not understood and I am trying to explain with a simple case.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u357	The problem is where the minister didn't understand you if you had a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u358	He didn't really understand us about the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u359	Look, you didn't discuss it, so the minister didn't understand you. Not about that. [[/ advertising from the hall]] I propose that we proceed with the debate. Procedurally, Bojana Muršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u360	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I've been following this debate for 16 hours now and what's happened now and what's happening, you're always jumping into the word when there's replicas. And time is running out. Please, when you jump into the word, let the time stop and you say what you have to say, because that's not how it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u361	Thank you, ma'am. In case you haven't noticed, I've interrupted one, too, so time hasn't run out. Procedurally, Mrs. Sukich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u362	I suggest you give yourself a reminder this time because you are interrupting a Member who is explaining to a minister who does not fully understand the matter, and he simply said that he had explained it to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u363	Thank you very much. It is necessary to separate first, ma'am; one is the debate, but the replicas are in cases where someone does not understand and the replica is not a debate. It will be possible, if necessary, to explain when time is shared or the next of the Members in turn. Mr Rudi Medved has the floor, and after that he is given the word of a Member of France Kepa. Mr. Rudy Bear, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u364	Thank you very much, Vice President. We have an unusual situation. It's a little ironic to say something ironic when a citizen of Hojs advocates an interpretation against Minister Hojs. It is strange that this does not seem unusual to the Members of the coalition. Moreover, this situation is in every way sought to rejuvenate also in the way that the President of the Government did not accept the derogation. But that's not what this is about. That's not what this is about! For the first time in the history of Slovenia, in fact, it happened that a minister resigned irrevocably and is still a minister. In most cases, ministers and ministers offered resignations – sometimes also in the desire that the President of the Government would not accept this resignation – offer resignations, the President of the Government has either accepted the resignation or has not accepted it. This is an irrevocable retreat. For the Minister, Mr Hojs, is a determined man to decide in such a manner on this step, and to make this public and very exact statement, explaining that he estimates that powers do not allow him to be directly influenced or interfered with the work of the National Investigation Office or anyone on the force, that I do not repeat what has been said so many times today. And what's happening on the day that he gave up irrevocably, these were house investigations with Minister Restoration that this was a politically motivated work. He made an irrevocable concession; therefore, this was a significant difference compared to the proposed derogation, and a few days later, on the journalist’s question, when it was not clear what was now with this derogation, he repeated that he was withdrawing — which was irrevocable — could not be cancelled. Those were his words, I think three days after he gave up irrevocably and then nothing happened. Or maybe this mouse started with this envelope and whoever asked someone to stay. The minister simply said that he understood that the President of the Government, with the answer, was well aware of his irrevocable resignation. You know, but I don't believe this story. I don't believe it, but the public doesn't actually believe it. I know you don't care what the public thinks. The President of the Government recently made it clear or asked which public, which public, because you only answer to the voters who elected you, so it was understood, but the public is still asking what the situation is now. I must say that a few people called on me before this debate to raise this issue and to clarify at this meeting what is now with this derogation, what has changed in the short time that there has been no withdrawal from the irrevocable withdrawal. But I don't believe it happened by the fact that the Director-General knocked at the minister's door this morning and said there's a house investigation at Restoration, and I'm resigning. The minister said, "Okay. Is the house investigation really ongoing? Yes, and then I also resign.” I don't believe it went so fast, but I'm quite sure it was a carefully planned event and that this was all in line with the President of the Government. As long as we do not have other information, we can think about it or speculate, for we do not even have other information. Mr Hojs would ask what changed overnight, if the police had previously been political. Whether she has become unpolitical in a few days, and so there were no more conditions for your resignation or anything else, if you do, you will answer this question if you will, because this situation with your resignation today was not enough to talk about, even though we have repeatedly highlighted this problem. I think that we are not quite enough because we will probably not convince Members of the ruling coalition that this is not only unusual, but also illegal, what is going on. However, you may explain the reasons for the cancellation of the irrevocable derogation. At first glance, there is no dispute, you will say, as far as this is concerned, the case of the guidelines and mandatory instructions of the executives of the Director-General of Police, as far as these are concerned, you say controls, but this is not about controls in these deplorable five cases, this is about reviewing these cases. And this, I am neither a lawyer nor a great expert in this area, but from today's debates and reasonings, one can create the impression that the revision of the procedure is an illegal act. You didn't convince me that you could think otherwise, I know the difference between control that the Minister can encourage, and the second is a review of the procedure. Even if we ignore this case, your Secretary of State has also cooked for you, in fact he has committed an act which, if not already resigned, is also a large trigger that should lead you to a resignation. In view of what the Secretary of State himself or you would like to show as a purely innocent act, that is to say, the withdrawal of a complaint – let us ignore the fact that this was the complaint of his acquaintance or friend to the staff of the National Investigation Office – that this was only a waiver to the Director-General of Police. No, that was certainly not just a step down, but a very clear pressure, and if you want to talk about the instructions now or whatever we call it, he has made his expectations clear in writing for action against the staff of the National Investigation Office. So, without knowing what was really going on in practice or knowing this case to the point, he himself felt that action should be taken against the people in charge of the process. And this is an absolute violation of the Secretary of State's powers, and you're not telling me that this is a classic withdrawal. I know what a withdrawal means, not that you've clearly written your expectations about what's going to happen to these employees. Otherwise, the depoliticisation of the police is clear on all these allegations. I don't know why you're spinning around like cats at the Ministry of the Interior, when it's absolutely clear that you want to shut down the National Investigation Office. I think it would be better to stop it on some normal path than to constantly discredit people employed at the National Investigation Office, and thus create an atmosphere when you decide that now the conditions are ripe for its abolition. We have heard so many times, even in this Chamber, the findings at the expense of the National Investigation Office, particularly the who set it up, why it was set up, so it is quite evident that you want to end the National Investigation Office. Stop it in the normal administrative way, not by means of discredits and pressures! As far as this revision of these procedures is concerned, we, Minister, have asked you what you really want to achieve with this revision of the procedures. You said you wanted to know if everything was done as it should be. This is, I think, a very professional approach, which is decent, but how it should be done to be decent. That was the answer. Whether or not it is a “decent” term is a professional term, you should now decide for yourself. I find it very unconvincing because I don't know what to do. Minister, I'm not going to say that you lost my trust in the moment that you resigned irrevocably. You haven't had my confidence since the beginning of this government's work, and I find this purely legitimate. On the other hand, in the situation you're in, it seems strange to me that you're actually insisting on this place. It's hard to get rid of the feeling that it wasn't the police's politicization at the time, but that you simply received an order that the work was not finished, which in your procedures after this resignation proved that the police politicisation was not yet completed. Thus, in the absence of other information with partial speculations, one can explain this situation. I believe it will be difficult for the Prime Minister to find a replacement for you. Did he ask you to stay for the control of the epidemic, I don't know, once there was such an explanation, another time to stay until the interpolation. We don't have the epidemics anyway, the planes have been flying, the new ones haven't been declared, we only have cases of infections, more than 100 per day, but the cases of infections, obviously not. If he asked you to stay until the interpolation, then it probably means that you will now really give up or realize what you have already done, or else you will have to somehow formalize or arrange this situation with the President of the Government, because it is strange for the citizens and citizens of this country to say so. Of course, the electorate applauds you how well we are, how well they are, right, President of the Government and Minister of the Interior, but, on the contrary, believe that this situation sheds an extremely poor light, on everything else, on the work of this government. So in any case, I expect you to actually apply this resignation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u365	Thank you very much. He's got the word Franci Kepa and he's getting Monica Gregorčič ready. Mr. Ambassador, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u366	Thank you for your word, chairman. I welcome the Minister, the Minister, the secretaries, the colleagues, the colleagues! There is clearly no reason to interpel the story of a concert, but the aim is deeper – to remove the interior minister and weaken the government. There is no way that the opposition, in particular a party to the Slovenian Democrats, can accept the loss of position and leverage. It is precisely because of the fact that they are the longest in power and it is normal in democracy to make a change every so long, so many years, and come to power by another party, until recently the opposition. Minister Hojs or his services have only followed the court's instructions on performing the concert - and such disdain for Thompson's concert! There was no discomfort when she came on public television with a large pump Serbian giant Ceca, partner of Arkan, military commander who participated in many horrors in the area of Yugoslavia, or singer Bora Đorđević of the Riblja čorba group. He also has songs or versions that may be very disturbing for some. Are some people accepted by singers for reasons of nationality, while others are not? Even the singer Magnifico allowed himself too much at the festival of culture. He was deluded by the Church and the Slovenians, who are mostly Catholics. And there was no response or indignation. Everyone has the right to listen to the music that suits him, but with respect for others who think differently. We live in a plural society. Is the main cause of the attack on Hojs due to irregularities on the NPU, possible irregularities, unexplored cases from the spillover of money over oasis abroad, from the laundering of money from Iran to the granting of high loans from NLB and other banks during the transition. Fear is very great, fear of tracking money enormously. In order not to reach the culprits, the deep state uses the same receptions as in the past and with the help of public media, public television, the press spreading lies and misinformation. No government has ever given as much prosperity to the entire population in a time of crisis as this government has. It would be good for this government to be long in power and order in the country to bring the standard closer to the developed countries in the European Union, so that young people stay at home on their land of origin, but not that nearly 10,000 young people go abroad every year. I'm not going to support this interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u367	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word. But get ready for Josie Lenart. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u368	Thank you very much, Vice President, and good morning to all! Now we have been discussing for quite a number of hours the proposal for interpretation, which in fact, according to its contents, one such short political pamphlet, based on some accusations by the contested musician that the Minister did not prevent or prohibit, intervene in some of the decisions and ban this concert. You know, at this point or not at this point, but in this case, the taste of music doesn't matter. It is also not an ideological cultural struggle in the first place, although on this wave you are also successful in collecting political points. The whole absurdity of this interpretation is in fact that today the Minister is formally intertwined or on a sad bench because he took into account administrative and judicial decisions because he essentially respected the rule of law. However, it is kind of double-faced that the main proponents of this interpretation, when they respond, are very fond of citing and quoting the rule of law. The first to be signed under today's interpolation, Mr Germany, including in the role of the current President of Knovs, the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, is, in fact, clearly using some information selectively for political struggle and has also used it for the purposes of this interpolation. Not directly, but today some specific online media portals have already been mentioned in the debates, through which certain information has been cleaned, manipulated, processed, leaked to the public and to which it is actually impossible to respond in an argument or deny them because it is information marked by a level of secrecy and if anyone wanted to clarify matters, he would, or reluctantly, reveal the secrecy of the information, which we know can be criminal. Specific case of insinuation of how and what was the conduct of some control of the authorised group 18. 2., there is a record, it is marked by a degree of secrecy and in the media a variety of lies, partial lies about it. I have read this record, and I believe that the President of Knovs is also, and there are things written there as they are, and a different story is being sold in the media. And that's what I'm worried about: the misuse of information from Knovs for political purposes. In fact, exactly what has been reported to the previous President, Mr Tonin, is happening. I think that's a very big problem. The fact is, it came at a time of specific control 18. 2. to some tests, we have seen this in the media, not only on the disputed portal, to follow some policies, to look into records and I have been peering into these records. Minister Hojs also made it very clear today or said that the information officer had also interpreted in dispute some of the lists that individuals had received from individual politicians, which we had requested to look into the records. That's how it smells in here, and it's not like it was written on the Uncensored Portal. We have also heard today some literally dramatic contributions from individual Members and Members. I believe that the pain that the Minister is still in his post is great, and somehow calms me down, that Mr Möderndorfer has also found that the numbers are known to be known. I hope it won't be too bad if I find that I'm glad that he's better at counting now than he was at the beginning of 2012. Even at Mr Pojbič's remarks, he would refer to several names of NPU investigators, explaining a role, a modus operandi. You know, these aren't conspiracy theories, although there was quite a bit of ridicule on this side of the hall during its execution. I myself have some experience, I have been invited as a person who in some particular investigation could give important or relevant information as a Knovs member, and I think that the first author of today's interpretation was invited to the NPU in the same role, so I believe we have the same experience, and my experience is that this hearing could be labeled as a political police if you want. So not all of the vines are twisted and not all of them are conspiracy theories, but it's also a lot of real things. Somehow you like your former coalition colleagues in your discussions to turn around or point to SMC and Desus as former coalition partners to knock on our conscience and to remind us or to overlook us — in connotations. Yes, we have overlooked your way of political struggle, action, so believe that with such interpolations as today's, just strengthen our belief that we have done the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u369	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor, Mr Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u370	Thank you very much. What I was able to understand from the speech of the esteemed Masters of Monika Gregorčič is, I think, in some writing that I have already spoken of today. It is uncensored.si, where it says that Mr Mahnic and Mr Cernač are to be viewed and questioned by the Secretary of State for Security today – I think in the Cabinet of the President of the Government – and by the Minister in charge of the month of February on this supervision. This is also supposed to be in the minutes and should be reported uncensored.si. As I understood Monika Gregorčič for her in this minutes there is no issue, I have identified myself in the preliminary implementation somewhat differently, so I have made a call to the General Police Administration to propose that they too, because I, as President of Knovs, am a cosigner and they should also sign the intention to publish the magnetogram publicly. The GPU refused to do so. So I am very sorry, Mrs Monika Gregorčič, that we really cannot publish this document publicly, because I believe that the modus operandi would only show the way in which the current minister and the secretary have acted, the questions and the content that have been examined by the General Police Administration. I think that this would be more than welcome for the public also because of possible differences in interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u371	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Jože Lenart has the word, and she'll get the word "magic" after him. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u372	Thank you, President, for your word. Mr Aleš Hojs, if ethical principles do not work in society and if there is no political responsibility, we go to the blind street that we are witnessing to today. Especially in a given situation that has taken over the whole world, it is not appropriate for such a situation to occur. Here it comes. And for this situation today, you are responsible in the current government, especially you, with your own actions. You made an irrevocable withdrawal because you could not prevent certain actions that did not happen to the current government or to your leader in order to achieve the objectives set. Impatience, enthusiasm, adrenaline, ego, a bit of awkwardness, and we have come to this laugh accompanied by the public since your irrevocable resignation on 30 June 2020. And now we would like to present the situation so that the opposition and the proponent are stealing your time, taking your time, but we are also wondering what the public would say not to react to these activities. Imagine you get, we get -- I ask you all -- a court document, we sign it, we accept it, but we don't open it, and then we say we don't know what's in this letter. Of course, no court would take that into account and believe us. It would be a very strange situation. We all know this, just this policy, this government doesn't know it, and it won't believe it, and it won't want to believe it for as long as it has a majority in this House. Now, if I go any further. Look, this is a decision I received Tuesday as Jože Lenart by the Ministry of Health. We all know what this is about because it was in all the newspapers: the member of the LMŠ Group LMŠ Jožet Lenart is quarantined. And if I had taken this decision, signed it and not opened it, and acted ignorant, and would have gone to the National Assembly at the time of quarantine — what would have happened to me? Would you like to sit here today? That's what I'm asking you. This says ZUP, this is called the Law on Legal Procedure, which I also have done, because I have also been employed for a certain period at the Ministry of Finance, and I am so damn clear. I'm asking: Some of these things then apply to others, not to others. A practical example, Mr. Alesh Hoys. Please tell me what would happen to me. I was served by a police officer, a very nice cop. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u373	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, and as the last one, he will discuss the mag. Branko Grimes. My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u374	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Good morning! In his discussions today, Minister Hojs has demonstrated that he does not understand the division of power, that he does not know the General Administrative Procedure Act, by which Thompson's decision by the Ministry of Internal Affairs could be null and void in accordance with Article 280 of the ZUP in conjunction with Article 279. Besides, officials don't need ZUP, so here you have one, I'll say, observation. He trampled on human dignity, gave illegal guidance to the police, ordered the preventive identification of the protestors, which the Ombudsman warned and said was a violation of the law, he irrevocably gave up, he is still among us today. That there are people around who discipline criminals, specifically Kangler, in the matter of alleged prostitution. A minister like that doesn't deserve my support, so I'll support the interpellation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u375	Thank you very much. And we've reached the last interviewer reported, mag. Branca Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u376	Thank you again for your word and once again a nice greeting to everyone a little late in the night! Since it's such a late night, I would warn you that outside a few people has been circling around and shouting at thieves, thieves. Apparently, they're lost and they can't find their way to Ljubljana's Magistrate and I suggest that when they're obviously looking for the ones the police are looking for, for the second time, to help guide them to the Ljubljana Magistrate, these people will easily find all the ones they're looking for. Apparently, they've heard of that 50 million, and what kind of pharmacist are they looking for now? Let's help people. As far as interpolation is concerned; legally interpolation, you all know that, you don't stand. Interpellation would be justified if the Minister violated the court's decision and the Minister respected it, which, of course, means that the interpretation is intended for something else. What we could listen to all day from the proponents: the insatiableness, the play of emotions, the prejudices, all the negative things you resist in your words, and the reality of your actions. You all know this very well and in the most beautiful way you can say it in one sentence with that old Balkan truth, with the Balkan proverb: Whoever sings does not think evil. One listens to the combination, one listens to Ceco, one listens to Thompson. What exactly is Thompson? Thompson also publicly distanced himself from the institution in Slovenia, including on Slovenian television. All those who claimed otherwise, you were knowingly lying. It's not a matter of unannounced. This happened on Slovenian television and had an echo. Igor Pirkovic, who allowed Thompson to say that he also told the truth, that he had presented his side of the medal, which is the only normal thing in democracy, then he had to throw it under his feet for a long time and try to remove it from Radiotelevision Slovenia. So much for respecting the right of someone you accuse to tell their side of the medal. Well, on this evidentiary lie, this interpolation is based because its goal is one itself — to stir emotions and to gnash intolerance toward others. Unfortunately, some have fallen for it. Just like that old Murphy marriage that says when the trumpet blows, it's all in the trumpet. And people didn't check the facts and then help spread the nonsense that we witnessed today. Some of you hit your chest and you said we were socialists, and we talked a lot about collaboration. How nice it would be to know what you're really talking about. Where has the mother of all collaborations been for centuries? Look, on this monument. “I am a socialist” – Adolf Hitler. Well, now, keep acting like you're socialists. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a recording of the signing of the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact, which in fact plunged Europe into the most devastating war, World War II. This collaboration, which lasted for two years, a third of World War II, actually caused World War II to be so devastating and to cause this to Poland as the greatest victim. I'm sorry that I couldn't get a colored photocopyer now, because you could enjoy the red colors you love so much, even in these pictures, where you can see German and Russian soldiers with a red star and a hacker celebrating the defeat of the unfortunate Poland that was attacked by the Germans on September 1st, and the 17th was betrayed in the back by Soviets or socialists. They even had a joint parade in Brest, that's, like, a nice case. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a collaboration! Everyone who cries out that you are socialists, one socialist international and national socialists – be ashamed of you! Well, there's another nice German general here, and a Russian general. Whoever I think this was quick enough to see the Mayan parade in Moscow with some German field marshals and the SS division at the head. This is the reality of collaboration, ladies and gentlemen, and when you make such accusations, think a little about who they're flying at. By the way, Thompson has publicly distanced himself from the uprising. Everyone who said that, you know, that's what they say, you've been knowingly lying; not just that, he's a patriot. And what did he really sing, and why does he bother you so much? He has a song that sings that we are once again judged by the independent states, but they did not want to – or sing about Croatia, but in this song you can also put Slovenia, and you will get the exact position in which we are and the current state, and you will understand why there is such a thorn in the heel that you will not be allowed to sing it. I say otherwise, if we were based on what happened when we adopted the Slovenian Constitution, we would let everyone sing. Let each one listen to the one he wants, and let him build on it. Such a trick is, of course, only with one goal of diverting attention, to avoid intolerance with one legally unfounded drawback. In fact, this is in favour of crime, in favour of all those who break the law because this time is being lost, rather than ensuring that the greatest crime is actually cut, the first and effectively persecuted, and that it also experiences its epilogue in an appropriate court. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and all those who have had comments about the NPU remind you once again that I have personally met people who have said that individuals from the NPU in Ljubljana even boast that they have done nothing. The NPU has not justified its existence, the NPU should be abolished by law in my opinion and poured back into an effective system to justify its existence with the criminal police. NPUs don't now. We don't need an institution that doesn't do anything to make things obsolete. We do not need a country in which someone for 140 euros went to the house, the house was sold to him at a price, and 50 million to one other family were forgiven. Is it true that we are equal before marriage, and this is a constitutional principle? This should be the subject of today's treatment, but we have only talked about it by those who sit on this side, and this is what should worry about, because the fundamental constitutional principle is that we must all be equal before the law. If this is not fulfilled, if the law does not apply to all in the same way, then it is not the rule of law and democracy is just a farce. Another condition is that democracy works; that it is a real, true freedom of the public word. It would be worth devoting a special session to ending with the fact that, in the name of persecution of an enemy speech; all those who spoke about it, you probably don't even know that hate speech is not a legally defined category at all, and that in practice it has turned out to be a world-wide persecution of the truth, because nothing in this world of left-wings is more painful than the truth. And what I'm saying right now is proof of that. This is said to be achieved in full respect for the Slovenian Constitution, even in the part that every relevant information on any area of social life will always be available to everyone, and this is highlighted by different value angles. I will never agree to the fact that there are more truths. The truth is alone, only the views can be different, the values of the angles are different, but what should unite us is a common constitution, a constitutional order, a legal order and, of course, common values. Each policy must be based on values and the first and fundamental value on the subject we are talking about today is respect for the thinkers and, of course, ensuring legality – first at the level of law enforcement authorities and then all those who participate in this system. This system is not working right now, as it should be. There have been many things that have been done in the past few months in the right direction, and many more things will have to be done, and you all know that. However, now, the lack of intolerance, as we have witnessed, certainly does not approach this goal. Why are you doing this? Simple, because the simplest thing you do alone is to point at another and then shout, look at the thief. An old trick the socialists have been using for about 100 years. Then we're not surprised if we have Antifo in the streets. The antifayal world today is doing exactly what is evident to others — forcing its political will by violence. That, ladies and gentlemen, is precisely the definition of fascism. Today it's the fascists who claim to be anti-fascists. If you want, even at the symbolic level, there were two wonderful examples of this in Slovenia – it was the so-called day of black shirts, on Friday, when everyone dressed in black shirts, you can go to YouTube and roll the song Camisa Negro, and you will know who were the ones who were wearing black shirts. And, of course, we also know who was carrying the torches, the craps, and where they brought them. Now we have the money on Fridays before the Slovenian Parliament. This is also a symbolic message, which, of course, fully confirms what I said at the outset. Socialists – all the same. Sorry, ladies and gentlemen, you are the very principles of this subject. I would not touch on this if we did not have this interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. As far as this interpretation is concerned, I can only find out – and you know it yourself – that when the Minister works when he performs his duties, he is not only committed, but even sworn to respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, to respect the rule of law and to be bound by the principle of the division of power on the one hand and on the other by the decisions of the Court. Since he respected them, the interpretation is not only entirely unfounded but also pointless and absurd. Such nonsense, I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, you can only sell in one country where all the mainstream media are controlled from one political side. But here we come to the subject that I was talking about earlier, freedom of the public word, which is clearly disturbing, as we have seen today in the debate. Freedom of the public word does not mean that everyone blows one and the same, but that there are different rumours that different journalists are different values, that different values are angles and that a person can choose the information he wants and also check it with another. Thus, the media also exercise proper control when one medium is exposed if another medium does not speak the truth. This is the basis on which appropriate journalism is based. But if we come to planned and systematic censorship, if there's a bombastic expression behind the persecution of hate speech or I don't know what, of course it's not democracy anymore, but it's just a farce. Given that the Minister was responsible for his work, given that the Minister respected both the laws and the decisions of the Court in his work and could not do otherwise, this is the only right thing to do, we can find that he has fulfilled the legal standard and, on the other hand, that he has implemented the right policy. Interpellation against Minister Hojs is therefore unfounded and, of course, we will not support her in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u377	Procedurally, Comrade Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u378	Thank you for your word. Look at the chairman, regardless of the aggregate condition of the derogation, the irresistibility is Minister Hojs, he said earlier that he is an anti-fascist, so according to Grims he is a fascist. My procedural proposal is that Branko Grims does not insult a minister who is a guest in the National Assembly and who I do not have as a fascist, although I will of course vote in favour of the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u379	Dear colleagues, the hour is late, I suggest we hold out a few more moments to come to the vote and finish the matter. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister of the Interior and the representative of the motioner of the interpretation will be given the floor. First of all, the Minister of the Interior, Mr Aleš Hojs.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u380	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members – now I see that the hall is practically full – respected Prime Minister of the Government, fellow ministers! Of course, first of all, I would like to thank Mr President of the Government, who has come here because he has made it very easy for Mr German to do so. He's been wondering where the Prime Minister is for 14 hours, now he's got it in front of him, so I hope you'll at least be at peace with him in this work. Now I'm waiting for what I am at ten o'clock in the morning, not ten o'clock in the morning, so at 10:30 a.m., somewhere was that point of mine, asking the proponents to show me what they call "Goebbeles' clips" last week. At that time I asked you to see your video number 1. I think the point is number 1 where you announce that I signed permission for Thomson to take place in Slovenia. I asked you if I could see it in sixteen hours, Mr. German has not shown me this. At the same time, I asked if you would show me where the 130 or 140 thousand euros that the state will pay are due to the fact that the country has never had a concert that will never be allowed, but the organiser has said that it will not have one, as Mr Bevk says, has been paid by the state for 140,000 euros in compensation. So I don't have these two data after sixteen hours; so not the paper in which my signature is, not the way the state will pay 140 thousand euros. In my opening remarks, I strongly doubt why there was such a strong desire to ban this concert. So, Mr. Chief of the Maribor Management Unit, a member of the SD, has worked extremely hard to ban this concert. Even though we know he's gone and he's never gone, he wanted more to be banned. Why is there such a desire to ban it? So if you stop something, then that's the basis for compensation. If you allow anything, then I don't see any reason for the organizer to sue anyone for any compensation if the concert is allowed. But there is no concert, he has decided not to, he himself said that he does not intend to organize it, so everything concerned about compensation and about what you have done in these hours is, of course, gone. The second thing that I've seen in this interpretation is, of course, inappropriate human resources interventions. I will not talk again or much about this, I can only say that one of those who was replaced – but of course I did not change them, I have already said this after my own time four times, replaced by the director of the police – a man who led an important body dealing with money laundering, who was then transferred or rewarded to the post of Director of the National Investigation Office, which was replaced by a new director, immediately filed an action. An action for the illegality of his replacement and an action for the retention of a decision on his replacement. So despite the opinions of the work of Slovenian lawyers, of course, I must properly express myself, the works of Slovenian lawyers who are especially on public television and on POP TV explained how this exchange is certainly illegal. At that time, I thought about it, but whether we already have people at the NPU who, as we say, cannot be replaced by police directors after 25 years. I don't know if you know that. The directors of police administrations are also in their posts for 21 or 25 years. When you ask the police director how there's no change, you get a bunch of answers that are actually irreplaceable. That it is necessary to amend the law so that we can replace it, that this is non-compliance with labour legislation. At the same time as a minister, I get a lot of mayoral initiatives, including your Provinence, from the left provinces, which tell me why you don't finally do it to get some rotation in the police. Even the police station commanders, who have been there for 20 years, say the mayors, are already too involved in this environment, they know each other too much, we cannot say they are corrupt, but healthy circulation, healthy replacement in these environments is very important. If I return to Mr Male, the gentleman brought an action without delay and, of course, the court dismissed his action in that part concerning temporary detention. So he didn't make it, so the government did the right thing. Another important part that I think today is already said by Mr Pavlin, that the Constitutional Court has now ruled that we have done the right thing in the first part of the epidemic, even with the restriction of movement between the municipalities, to act legally, in accordance with the Constitution even. So this is where we were right. If I look back on what was not in the interpretation, however, if you allow me, the President, given that I have been repeatedly warned not to speak outside the interpretation, but today Mr German has spoken mostly outside the interpretation, but my instructions are mandatory. In this fourth point, which is controversial for many, I have tried to explain several times that it is the police who will see for themselves what they have done. So the Director-General of the Police, within his system, will look inside his people at what they have done in these cases, where nothing has happened in the last few years, as many of you have said. Nothing happened. The citizens are waiting. And I don't know what's more democratic than giving the Director of Police orders to look at how they did their job. Today, I have already told the proposer that the revisions of these procedures – pardon, not audit, I apologize – the supervision of all these procedures is another thing and, of course, are still possible. For each of these procedures, the Directorate of Police Oversight within the Ministry of the Interior may carry out an audit. But I think it's only right for the police to see for themselves whether they did what they had to do. The controls, as long as they're needed, are still following. In the end, honourable Members, Members, I would like once again to explain to all those who have asked me this question today in my own words. I think Mrs Alenka Jeraj has actually said very well what and how my resignation is. Let me say again that, on June of that year, I resigned that after one week when the President of the Government — this is a condition for the National Assembly to be familiar with my resignation — this was not the case in this national assembly. The president of the government interviewed me, told me to reconsider my resignation, and asked me to stay for a while. That's exactly what the President of the Government is communicating when it's time, and that's exactly what I've been saying for two months. So I promised the Prime Minister that, given the situation, which is relatively difficult, so covid time that I would stay at least until this interpretation and do my work, as I know it, and I know it by the best of conscience and of course in accordance with the Constitution. What happens in the interpolation, what happens after the interpolation, we can say tomorrow or Monday. And I will complete this final thought with one word, or with one sentence, which is only in my half, I will borrow half of it. In Slovenia, the river that was pronounced by the Attorney General Mrs Zdenka Cerar was born in some way. You probably all remember that river. She said, "Not every piggy is a crime." I add and hope that in Slovenia there will one day be so that the multitude of crimes will not remain just swine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u381	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the proposer, colleague Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u382	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, distinguished undersecretary Hoys! You've done well. You were looking for solutions like someone said, but I don't think you fixed your impression. Yet today we have discovered new and new lies over those old, even comparing today's magnetogram with your previous statement. Unfortunately, you don't understand the basic concepts of managing the ministry. That's what we figured out. You've got a lot of weak spots. With those things you wanted to attack the opposition, we served you again every time with new events and facts. Unfortunately, you are still not aware of the basic concepts of power-sharing. You are still Minister of the Interior and have limited powers, especially as regards the prosecution and the police. Unfortunately, I must say that you have not understood, and some of your colleagues have not, what your role is and what your place is. Of course, when you speak, words must be better than silence. Today he spoke silently; the silence of Desus, the silence of the SMC, in part also of New Slovenia. That says a lot, but forgives, I don't think so. Nevertheless, I invite everyone to a sober and responsible decision. They don't magnify the Constitution, Mr. Hoys, but you can't admit it, unlike Thompson. If we really respected our Constitution and the Constitutional Court's judgment, we would confirm the decisions of the Administrative Unit which banned the public event. Therefore, I propose that you gather this courage, if you are not yet – and so are you, Mr President – to acknowledge to the Slovenian public that you are the ones who honor some of the values that have been buried far in history; that you are the one who wants to lead the police in individual procedures; that you are the one who wants to break the autonomy of the State Prosecutor's Office. We're wondering where and why this attack on the NPU, where it's changing from, why, why? Where does the Minister of the Interior come from in the field of justice and law? During the entire debate, we also demonstrated and demonstrated the impermissibility of the situation when, instead of addressing development challenges, you are dealing with repression, with media acquisition, with police takeover, we were talking about the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the Statistical Office, Furs. Now it's time for the esteemed assembly. I know that in a year you will be half, two in retirement, some of you will never return to politics, you will not have this opportunity, but remember that you are still writing the fate of a nation to which you belong, and you are writing the fate of some legal order for which we all fought: the left, the right, the yellow, the green. I'm talking about our country. Mr. Hoys is very much interfering with our country's fundamental demands. It is our responsibility, however, that you show your love for your country by supporting the rule of law and the fundamental demands of our country. Mr. Hoys has exceeded his powers, and you know that in an intimate way, too, because he knows. He has to do it because if he didn't, he wouldn't be where he is. If not, I'd probably be on New24. But it is your responsibility to preserve our country legally. Our country is not perfect, it is full of weaknesses, but in this way we will not eliminate them, in this way we will only strengthen and expose them. Thus, respected colleagues, respected colleagues, especially those who were once a little more susceptible to justice, justice and constitutional order, I invite you to press "for". To press for the interpretation of Minister Hojs as a symbol of everything repressive and unacceptable, as Janša's government stands for. It's up to us. It's up to you to make the right decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u383	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. I am closing the debate on interpolation and moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Interpellation candidates propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, on the basis of the interpretation lodged, extend its non-trust to the Minister of the Interior, Aleš Hojsa, and discharge him from office. His office as Minister is hereby terminated. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. Explanation of the vote, Comrade Luka Mesec on behalf of the Member of Parliament [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Quiet. My friend Luke Moon. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Please, keep quiet. Port of the Moon, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u384	Thank you for your word and your attention. Of course, we will vote in the Levica Group for the discharge of Minister Aleš Hojs from this position. Minister Hojs is the distillery of everything that is wrong with this government. Minister Hojs is not only a minister who thinks that his irrevocable resignation does not apply to him, who understands the police as a party body, who would terminate the independence of the National Investigation Office, which would rehabilitate the institution in Slovenia and who is trying to clean up traces of his client's business in his ministry and the police. Hojs is, after all, a man who came from Nova24 to serve as minister. He was the director of television, which began to introduce in Slovenia five years ago media receptions, whose target is many today. I am talking about uncorrupled racism, smoking, lying, media discourses that take away humanity from entire groups of people; they have started with refugees, and now they are spreading tactics to protestors, leftists, journalists, judges, culturers, all who do not accept their truth. Today, the interpretation showed why they're doing this. They say they're fighting for second-rates, while they're alone with the white Mercedes as some sort of imitation of Marshal Tito they're hauling around their constituencies or buying land at a cost from their political friends. Respected and respected, these people, with all these vile, machiavalist methods, are nothing more than money and power and simply imagine that they can be excluded from media criticism or any social criticism in this society and that they can live above the law. Whoever votes for Minister Hojs today will vote for this privilege of people who are actually trying to be more than the others who are actually trying to be first-class. Of course, we cannot allow this in Levica, we will never agree to this and we will vote in favour of the release of this man.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[Yeah.]] A fellow Kordish, then a colleague of her own. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u386	Minister Hoys, you have granted your irrevocable resignation. On behalf of the sovereign people of the Republic of Slovenia, accept your resignation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u387	I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u388	In this pharsic, 17-hour education, I have come to an important point today, to the conclusion that Charec is still the prime minister, because the resignation in this country is not a resignation. So, Prime Minister Janša, stop pacing in Sharč's office. Quite seriously, Article 115 of the Constitution is clear — the minister’s function is terminated by his resignation. Pika. And you stood down irrevocably, you didn't offer a resignation. Otherwise, everything you do after the moment you've done it is unconstitutional. But you do a lot of other things that are either unconstitutional or illegal. For example, you're squeezing hunters for the state's attorney's office because you're focusing on matters that are exclusively concerned and are under the jurisdiction of the state's attorney's office and not on you. Your orientations mean terror and terror in the police and in the NPU, which should be an autonomous body. You're actually doing everything you can to subjugate him because of your own interests in the service of the SDS. You have done everything to stop investigations into corruption and criminal matters by the SDS party, which is, of course, a selection of cases. Nowhere, say, nothing about Bell 1, nothing about Bell 2, nothing about money laundering NKBM, nothing about credit transactions with Dijano Djudzic – interesting, right? Just what will serve as the political ammunition of the SDS party, and that's what you're actually doing. You are only an extended term of Janez Janša, his executor, terminator who beats the foundations of democracy and constitutional arrangements with us. It must be made quite clear; the attack on the NPU and the institutions that must be autonomous in their operations is an attack on the country and you embody everything that is bad in this government. You lie, you deceive, you manipulate, you break the Constitution and the laws, and you act like a minister, even though you have resigned irrevocably. It is clear that I will support [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u389	The word is from a colleague of Violet Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u390	Thank you for your word. I too will vote in favour of interpolation, because unfortunately in this House we have opportunistic members of the coalition who will most likely support Hojs in his illegal position at this moment, and the unconstitutional, you will probably applaud yourself at the end of the vote. This reminds me of the Titanic, when he dived, the very defenseful musicians played to the bitter end. You can't play, you'll clap even less. Okay. You'll be applauding the death of a state of law, applauding this new normality, where the cleaners rule in the judiciary, the prosecution. A new normality, where you can rule unlimitedly, drunk with power, intertwined with politics, capital, corruption. And you, Minister Hoys, the renegade Minister Hoys, who is not for me, for you have lost all credibility, for what you do is unworthy, unprofessional and immoral. Just like a complete government that supports you. And you, what I'm most afraid of, are the ones who will decide what a pig is and what a crime is. You see, in a country like this, most citizens are afraid to live. And that's why it's 15 March here around Parliament to keep people safe or to protect the government from the people. Very sad, Minister Hoys! I wouldn't want to be in your shoes. Of course I'll vote for the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-18-SDZ8-Izredna-44.ana.u391	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. 85 Members are present. For 38, versus 43. [[38 members voted in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In view of the outcome of the vote, I find that the Minister of the Interior has not been voted on. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 44th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
