ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 21st meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Carmen Furman, mag. Bojana Mursich, Dr. Franc Runc from 12 o'clock on, Gregor Jedan, mag. Dejan Kaloh, Anja Bah Žibert and Franz Kramar. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 5th item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the candidate for the Constitutional Judge, Dr Anjeta Erbežnik, on the 16th item of the agenda, and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda for the 21st meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 9 October 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. The SD, SAB, LMŠ and Levica groups propose to remove the 10th item from the agenda of the meeting, namely the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian Demographic Reserves, the Fund for the Co-financing of Pension and Disability Insurance, the first reading, EPA 1349-VIII. You received a motion for withdrawal on Thursday 15. Ten. 2020. Would you like a representative of the motions to withdraw? Comrade Matjaž Han, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! We passed the Demographic Reserve Act on September 17th this year. In our opinion - and we probably all agree - the bill addresses an important issue, which is probably not yet known elsewhere in this Chamber today. It is linked to an ageing society, if I speak more intellectually, it is about demographic trends. We all know that this marriage of ours is connected to the pension system. Our pension system, however, will not be able to do what it can today in 20 years, and the country will probably not be able to do what it can today. That's why I think we need to talk about the demographic reserve fund. Believe me, the opposition, as far as we are concerned, in this case has a sincere purpose, so we suggest that, on the basis of Article 46, the agenda item withdraws and that its treatment should be postponed for only one month – for 20 years should not be a problem – so that we can have a conversation with the social partners. I thank all the parliamentary groups who have been willing to listen to us this month. Our proposal is to move this bill forward for a month, and I ask you for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Would you like a word as a representative of the bill's proponents, Comrade Matjaž Han? No, no, no. Would you like a word from the government? No, no, no. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Not at all. Does the representative of the motioners withdraw Matjaž Han wish to further explain the proposal? Not at all. I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for withdrawal. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to withdraw the 10th item from the agenda of the meeting. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. I inform you that I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. We are moving on to a full agenda for the meeting. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 21st meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 42 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the question of a ruling coalition member will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who has asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting in response to the reply of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal being used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, Dr. Anže Logar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health, Dr. Jože Podgoršek, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and Zdravko Počvalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, from 16 to 17 p.m. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša. The question of the mission will be asked first by the Victory of the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President of the Government, there are two critical sectors in Slovenia, which are health and justice. In health care we have problems with nurses who are extremely poorly paid, waiting types are endlessly long. However, among the 50 first people to receive high wages, there were 47 people from health care in March and 46 in May. If we look at the highest salary in March was paid by a senior doctor from UKC Ljubljana, which is €17 000 808, the doctor from UKC Ljubljana also had €27 000 45 in May. Very interesting. Then we move on to another critical sector, this is the judiciary. It's the unsolved trials we have. Actions against Slovenia in Europe are always lost or received by those who sue Slovenia. This is a permanent mandate of judges and prosecutors. Then we look at and see that in April the highest salary was paid by the chief state prosecutor of the Supreme Public Prosecutor – €39 000 992. Even worse was the month of June, when senior judicial advisor to the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana received a monthly salary of EUR 50,000. Very interesting. If we look at comparisons with other public sector officials or employees, we can only be appalled. How is it possible that some people get that kind of money, and in their sectors there are the most mistakes, the most waiting types, the most unresolved judicial problems, the most problems? While they have endless time and can then go to most of the ladies, especially the lady from the courts at twelve o'clock to the market for a fresh salad. One wonders what's wrong here and that's why, Mr. President of the Government, I ask you: Does the government intend to do something, correct these imbalances and these crazy profits of some, and also correct the fact that nurses, even though at the expense of these 50,000 euros received by some a month, will be better paid?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Members of Parliament and Members of the Government, please, when you speak, sit down, and in accordance with the recommendations, have been agreed on by the College of the President of the National Assembly. Dear Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words and for your questions. The payment system in Slovenia has many holes. I'm talking, of course, about the pay system at all. Also for wage systems that are partly applicable in the economy, although there is a smaller problem. We are far from always and everywhere rewarding better work and better management, a full obstacle has been placed in the way of applying this principle. The wage system in the public sector, which had a good intention of establishing comparability through this single approach, has completely degenerated, at least in some parts, at this time. Some relative comparability, which existed at the very beginning, is now in fact completely broken. By lifting the scales at the minimum wage, I simply think that the first twenty classes have been destroyed. There is an absolute need for correction in this part. Then there are huge differences that have arisen when individual governments have made individual arrangements, I don't know, once with teachers, once with police officers, once with other parts of the public sector. In some cases, therefore, the ratio also collapsed by 50 %. Corrections are necessary and the purpose of this government is, in accordance with the coalition contract, to make the service part of the public sector, it is said that that part of the public sector, where direct comparisons are very difficult to do, is regulated separately and that the administrative part, where this is easier, is maintained as a single pay system. It's a long way to go to the end. At present, we are at a stage where those who are most dissatisfied with the pay system, including health care and doctors, are themselves proposing a better division within the framework of the mass of funds now available to them. In the context of this proposal, I am counting on them to be eliminated within the meaning of the proposal, including the anomalies that you have listed and have known them for decades. Apes publishes this data all the time, and individuals, including in health care, who are on call, who have some additional resources, then appear here dramatically. It's probably not their average monthly salary. I can hardly imagine someone getting 50,000 euros a month's salary, but there are various bills, supplements and so on. And here are the anomalies, absolutely. So it's one of the priorities for this to go away. For the last time in the fifth package, you anticipated an additional award for both nurses and doctors who are now facing this danger. As far as the court is concerned. One is, of course, the averages that probably don't stand out, the other are the examples that you listed. I have to say, it's very difficult to comment on them because I don't know what this is about. But there is also some afront approach from these activities to any regulation or rationalisation. Remember the springtime when we used to limit wages to officials. As soon as we announced it, the court protested that the Constitutional Court did not allow it and let them go. Prosecutors were involved. Well, now I hear that copy paste prosecutors are filing complaints about wage cuts at the time of the epidemic by 30%, if they have to be exempted. Despite the fact that the courts did not at the time act as if no one had been further burdened, I would like to put back that 30%, which is all about one, I will say, the moral weight of this category.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, do you have a request to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I must point out that what I have said is official information and not fictional information. And it's the public sector. Among the thousand best paid in the public sector are about 900 doctors, and the majority of the gentlemen in the justice sector remain. And among these thousands, there is no Prime Minister, not the President of the State, not the Ministers, not the Members. That is to say, until this is settled, there will be no respect for the function of certain people in the country. And until there is respect for the office of President, Minister and Member of Parliament, there will be no respect for the country, and that is why it all breaks and collapses. That's why I'm asking, Mr. Prime Minister: Is the Government preparing a system of payments and public sector relations? I think that this should be one of the primary tasks of establishing a state-of-the-art attitude towards the country, its functions and its officials.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u9	Prime Minister, you want to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Look, I didn't say that what you said didn't hold, but that it wasn't official information. I just said that I doubt that these are average wages because I can't imagine anyone getting an average salary anywhere in the public sector of EUR 50,000 a month. That they're anomalies, we all know. That this has to be done, we all know. The government has done this. I told you about the formula. There is also a problem with the public opinion created, according to which the one working on a political function does not deserve a single euro. All that is more than one euro is too much. Such an opinion is created with the help of the Slovenian media. At the beginning of this term, the Government was accused of raising wages, even though we reduced them by 30%. And then we recently learned that those editors in the media who then accused us of raising our salaries, have divided thousands of euro add-ons out of cots, unjustifiablely. And there was no reaction. It is said that there is a huge hypocrisy here of those who have a significant impact on public opinion. As long as there are no single vats here, this part of the problem, as far as the pay system is concerned, will be difficult to resolve due to this pressure. However, we also intend to present certain proposals in this area, which will go in the direction of correction and will be for you to accept or reject them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thanks for the answers. But I must say that the average wage of the 50 who have the top of this system is about 12,000 euros a month, which is significantly more than that of the Prime Minister, the State, the Ministers, the Members who have about 5,000 euros in salaries. Therefore, I think it would be reasonable to discuss this issue, to show the information that the Slovenian public would also be pleased to see, to know who those gentlemen might have been paid for some special merit in their work. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on this subject in the context of one of the next meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2020, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be posed by Jani Möderndorfer to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u14	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! You probably don't even notice, you'll probably even deny it, but the fact is that you're at the very point of action, as far as a co-worker is concerned at this second stage, of course, drunk with the joy that you've succeeded in the first part, which is good, simply burned. First of all, you were burned to the point that you had actually taken action too late when you could. Instead of getting serious and discussing what the right measures would be like, you missed the deadline first, you agreed with the Croatian Prime Minister how you would put things together a little while before school, and later with the other measures, and where you were waiting. Today, we do not have enough beds for cod patients, insufficiently activated doctors, activated doctors and health workers, we do not have a so-called cod hospital where we could isolate such patients and thus allow them to carry out all preventive and curative medical procedures to avoid weakening the health status of all residents in the country. So please, if you'll explain: How will you ensure adequate care for all co-infected persons who will need hospitalisation in the future? For we all hear this call of health care and we do not see any action in this direction except for the standard ones. Especially with the fact that the operation will not fail, today we hear that with today in Celje and Maribor these operations will no longer be at risk of life in the next step. If it was your call to save lives first, I wonder: How are you going to save lives that will be threatened by mistreatment or by halting the health system later? Where will the citizens turn for this help, or who will be called to account? So please answer this question, not to me, to the people. Because I believe it will be difficult for you and harder for me to answer, try and answer people this time, not in the twitter style, but in the style of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u15	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you for wearing the mask, finally, and no more ignoring the rules. I think it's very important in these dishes, because we set the example for others. As far as being ready for the second wave, well, look, this wave will pass, we'll beat it, and then we'll compare who was successful and who wasn't. There are other countries in the European Union that, as far as the capacity of health systems is concerned, are better or worse than we are, this will eventually be weighed down and it will be seen who has done better and who has done worse. I assure you that after this second wave, Slovenia will be among the winners and among the better. As far as the action is concerned. When our government took over the mandate at the beginning of the epidemic, about 120 beds were available in Slovenia with all possible reserves and efforts to provide covid patients. Today, these capacities are significantly higher than at least 400, with fewer activities stopping than needed in the spring. At that time, however, it was not possible to double the medical or nursing staff, since you do not go to medical school within six months. And we all know that. Even now that reserves are being redistributed, it is a priority that the activities that are necessary be maintained in any case. Bed for cot patients is not running out, beds for emergency treatment in the Slovenian healthcare system are not running out. This is achieved in many ways by the great victims of those who work, but we can and will be able to do so in the next ten days, when these numbers are likely to rise also because they were mocked by some measures that could be timely, but only if they were all taken into account. It is not true that we did not react when the number of infections from Croatia started to increase. Slovenia is one of the first countries to close borders with Croatia before school holidays and we have begun to control this wave. It is true, however, that the summer season, when borders were open across Europe and when life was more or less normal ahead, caused the virus to spread again mainly during the younger generation. And then it moved on. There's no country that can stop it. That's different from the spring wave. At that time the virus came from one centre, from China it began to spread at individual points in Europe, mainly in northern Italy. This has been known and we have been able to shift this to some extent in time, some other countries actually even more. Now this enlargement has been symmetrical, everywhere, and all countries are in this state. The Netherlands, which you consider to be one of the so-called core countries of the European Union, has, in some ways, the best health system in Europe, and yet for two or three days now they have been driving covid patients to German hospitals. And a few other countries are like that. Yesterday, German Chancellor Merklov said in a statement that Germany has a good health system, with great capacities, but also these capacities are not unlimited. If anyone here thinks that Slovenia can be an isolated island in Europe that will not be affected by the virus, it is simply a big mistake. The virus also came to Malta, which is actually an island, to Cyprus, Great Britain, simply everywhere. We will take measures to ensure in the future that enlargement does not exceed the capacity of our health system.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Comrade Möderndorfer, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u18	I didn't even think you'd skip personal disqualification, that's your style. You could tell me when you're going to stop shaking hands with the politicians you meet, but you keep reaching into their hands, and I'm not doing it, it's not my style. Above all, I would like an answer from you, an answer that is very easy to answer. I'll make some suggestions because I see you don't want to answer. When will you activate them instead of giving money to privates to shorten waiting lines to help covid patients? With this, empty beds without doctors can be obtained by their doctor. When will you spend the extra money, if you will, now you have a nice chance in PKP6, in the sixth proposal, an additional amount of money devoted to the healthcare system instead of giving it for weapons? When and how will you ensure that preventive and curative checks, which, if not carried out, will require more death than covid will require? I'm afraid we're not ready and you don't want to or you don't know how to act, I don't know, but there's a bunch of measures you're waiting for. If we disqualify ourselves, we won't solve anything. I'd like to hear the answers. Don't disqualify people. It is the Prime Minister and the Government who is responsible to give the table of solutions that we are simply alerting. So, Prime Minister, it's time for you to become Prime Minister. To this day you are not doing this, to this day you are only doing what the President of the Government is not supposed to do with the nation, not to disqualify and demean it. You do this all the time. Do you have a solution to your hand?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u19	President of the Government, you have the floor to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u20	As far as the solutions are concerned, not only are they presented and communicated, but a plan with all parameters was presented in advance when the individual measures take place approximately. So now to say that we didn't know what would happen, that we didn't know the plans, that there was no capacity, look, this is for some kind of political discourse in style that is known, of course possible, but it has nothing to do with reality. All these questions that you have asked have been answered, so that what is missing and after which Slovenia actually differs at this time from the corona throughout Europe and across most of the world, it is that elsewhere more or less politics is able to come together. You are in the National Assembly last week, the majority of the opposition voted against additional capacities in health care, against extending the deadlines for the use of tourist vouchers, against compensations to those who are waiting for work because of the corona, against all measures that are logical in themselves and that are adopted everywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, colleague Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u22	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I expect the debate to open on this subject. Especially because if the opposition and the coalition want to cooperate, this move must first and foremost be shown by those who are large and strong and have executive power in the first place. How and in what way, of course, not with regret and underestimation, the opposition will always support good proposals, but it will always oppose breaking into apartments, which is constitutionally disabled, and will oppose the denial of both scientific and cultural work and the call on behalf of the covida that these things must be resolved now, immediately and here. President of the Government, I expect you in this debate, above all, with proposals that will benefit the people, not with proposals that you are going through in the last packages, which have no connection and no connection with the solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u23	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2020, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Sonibo Knezak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you, Prime Minister. Since the agreement on the reduction of pension contributions to employers was adopted in 1996, the pension fund has consistently created a loss. And minus is legally required to cover the state budget. This minus is currently being judged by about a billion euros. If we add negative demographic indicators to this contribution gap to the employer in the coming years, there are predictions that this deficit will reach close to 3 billion in 20 years. In the past period, politics has already adopted some legal extensions to try to solve this problem. Let me mention two laws, the Pension Reform Act, which has enacted the transformation of this demographic fund and, finally, in the SDH Act, we have laid down that capital society is transformed into a demographic fund. Let me remind you that both laws have been drafted and adopted by your other government. I'm sure you'll agree that the establishment of a reserve fund to establish a long-term guarantee for future generations' pensions is an important project. A project that requires not only political but also broad social consensus. It is such important decisions that people must understand them and they must also be debated as widely as possible. Dear President! We do not want our introduction of the bill to be understood as a set-up or blocking of the government. On the contrary. We have prepared the proposal transparently on the basis of an already legal course. We put on the table a thoughtful proposal, which is fully open to public debate. We've done it in part in these days, we've visited the unions, the pensioners' association, we've been to the parliamentary groups, including yours. This week, we are also planning a presentation for both youth and economic organisations. We have also forwarded the proposal to the Economic and Social Council, but have not yet been able to address it there. However, the new rules for dealing with opposition bill proposals have never been applied. Your government has prepared its proposal, which has a different concept. That's why I'm interested, Mr. President. Will you advocate an in-depth public debate on both proposals for laws that are being tabled in the parliamentary procedure? Will you, as one of the partners in the Economic and Social Council, help to address this forum also the legal proposal that we have tabled for Members and Members of the Social Democrats and Alenka Bratušek? Will you seek a broader parliamentary agreement on the adoption of the bill when considering the government's proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u25	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u26	Look, in principle the answer is yes. We are prepared to take every good proposal into account. We said that in advance. We have invited you from the very beginning to participate in the design process, to co-create system laws from the very beginning within the framework of the development partnership. This could be a one-off proposal, and you turned it down. Now to expect the government that started this law four months before you to have all these discussions with those you are talking about, to present the matter on the Economic and Social Council, to the Alliance of Retired Society and all the other stakeholders, to say now, yes, because someone else has shown up, and we will wait with all this and give some good suggestions to the opposition. Maybe we would if your party in power hadn't known 70 years, since 1945, when they did that, and I don't remember, but we've been in the opposition for a long time to drive this model. Unlike us, you have never invited us into a partnership for development, you have never supported any of our laws systematically, you have never accepted any proposal. That's not what I'm saying. We're going to do the same way you do. Any good proposal, some of them, by the way, when we talked to the Alliance of Retired Associations, we looked at the proposals in both laws in principle and there are some things in your proposals that we are prepared to take into account. However, it does not mean that we will change the direction that I think is crucial here to solve the problem. It is that we have one fund, that the management of state property is uniform and transparent, that control, regardless of who is in power, is involved by both the government and the opposition, that is in our proposal, and that it ceases to be a gardening industry that is now heavily defended. If you want my honest answer to your question, is it a matter of conjecture? It's not so much about bargaining on your side as it's about reading kindergartens that nothing changes, that state property is managed on four, five different ends. This means four, five administrations, control boards, a few hundred individual contracts, a few hundred different sponsorship contracts, business contracts with various friendly entities, this sums it all up a year, both 30 and 40, maybe 50 million overheads that do not go to the pension fund or for other purposes, but for the needs of those who have an influence on management, those who have an influence on the management of these kindergartens. It's just that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. My friend Prince.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u28	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! I must say that I am sorry, to my own, I hope that the correctly posed question, which was without offense, was also expected to have one correct answer. I have been a member of this National Assembly for two years, not since 1945. I am interested in this important issue of the future, not my pension, but my children, so we addressed it. Today we have two suggestions on the table, which I think is good. Our proposal did not come up in September, our proposal has been dealt with on our expert councils for some time. That is why I mentioned that this is not speculation, but our contribution to solving the problem that this country has. This problem is serious and politics has not been able to resolve it in the last 15 years. Our proposal for a concept goes in the direction and according to the information I have received, it has already been achieved as much as possible. I think we're good at identifying resources, resources, not assets. The cashier's office lacks financial resources. This is a problem that it addresses and solves our bill. Before I finish, because you also mentioned your proposal, I would just like to ask you. On Friday, the Commission gave a strong earpiece to your proposal to prevent corruption, saying that there is a huge potential for corruption, conflicts of interest, transparency in the procedures for appointing members, in short, one set of very serious comments. That's why I'm interested, Mr. President of the Government: What will you do?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u30	If there are serious comments, of course we will take them into account. But I have to say, I don't know what you're talking about, because I haven't seen these proposals. Whatever can be added in terms of greater transparency will certainly not harm the law. However, it is a big question why the Commission has not assessed the current system in terms of corruption to prevent corruption. And all these hundreds of different sponsorship contracts and worlds and legal services, which are now funded by four, five addresses intransparency, instead of going to the pension register. This is a question that I am referring to the Commission to prevent corruption in favour of pensioners, in favour of getting that money there, for which it should actually be intended. As far as the proposals of your marriage are concerned, we are willing to follow them. But the law that we have tabled has been tabled by a coalition that has a majority in the National Assembly, and we expect that other good proposals will be added around this proposal, not that the minority will now require the majority to adapt to their procedures. If you know any country in the world that's called democratic, and that's what happens, then give it to me. It is clear what is here that or that part of Parliament that has responsibility. Nor is it true that so far there have been no such proposals. We have tabled a solution twice in the opposition, and you have not supported it. Some others have tabled a solution, but you have not supported it. The coalitions in which you have been, however, have never been able to agree to harmonise on this proposal. Now, for the first time, a majority coalition has come up with a proposal that drinks water and is in the process.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Prince. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! After two years, I'm still naive because somehow I was hoping to get some more patience from your response and some willingness to have a dialogue. I have a feeling sometimes when I come to the National Assembly that some of you are not aware that you are in the National Assembly, but that you are in the society of historians. I don't care what happened two, three, four terms ago. Our proposal and my question were correct. We have two suggestions. I also expected a correct answer. There is more than one difference between the proposals of the law that have been tabled in the National Assembly. One of the most obvious is that our proposal addresses only one problem, which is the deficit we have in the cash register. And by means of this law, we save and allocate funds. Our proposal is trying to bring into the system some social dialogue, and I don't know if it's the same for you. Our proposal, what also seems important to me, distinguishes between the responsibility for management and the responsibility of the owner. You throw management and property rights into the same basket. I think that this is contrary, at least as far as I have been taught, to some OECD guidelines that speak about the maintenance of these two rights. I don't think we can deal with this with 46 votes in this way that, in my opinion, it should be at least a two-thirds majority, because it is, as I said, an important social consensus. That is why we have also proposed that we be given an additional month to hold a public debate, which will already be so difficult because of the epidemiological conditions currently prevailing. It all shows that the concept of these laws will not have any real opportunity to face each other on the basis of arguments, so, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the reply of the President of the Government to my question at the next meeting be discussed in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2020, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by the mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u34	Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Janez Janša! At the July European Council in the framework of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework and the recovery and resilience fund, the government has been extremely successful in negotiating the largest European investment funds in the history of Slovenia. Slovenia is therefore entitled to approximately € 10.2 billion by 2029. The negotiations are extremely successful, but it is now important that we use and invest these funds wisely and efficiently. What is the Government's strategy, or what are its priorities, to ensure smart and efficient use and investment of European funds?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u35	Indeed, the resources available are at least three, four years larger than ever before from these resources in a comparable period. Not only is it because, contrary to expectations, we have increased the regular European budget, which is allocated to Slovenia, there is a seven-year financial framework, but it is also because the epidemic has now added a fund for recovery and resilience. As regards the timing, given that there has been a lot of misinformation in previous days, how the European Commission has rejected the recovery and resistance plan, the national plan, before any of the frameworks under which such plans will be assessed have been laid down. The deadline for adoption of these plans or at European level was adopted next year. Our plan or purpose is not to wait until April, but to propose and adopt this plan by the end of the year. The government adopted a draft framework ten days ago. This draft provides for priorities precisely in terms of the purpose or address of the Fund, that is, recovery and resilience. It is our intention, therefore, to provide additional capacity in the healthcare system, in the system of care for older people, in investments that represent a step forward in the sense of digital society, digitisation, in the sense of sustainable development and in the context of all these objectives in terms of upgrading physical or transport infrastructure, as well as energy and communication infrastructure, particularly in those parts of the country that have been neglected so far. As regards the health system, two new infectory clinics in Ljubljana and Maribor, a nursing hospital in all regions, will be built, in some regions existing hospitals will be turned into care centres and new regional hospitals will be built. We will significantly increase the capacity of the health system at all those points that we have known for ten years that they are too small, as well as those that have now proved to be in need of additional reserves at the time of the epidemic. The main obstacle not only to draw on these funds, but also to invest wisely, is domestic bureaucratic obstacles. First of all, the thought that we must be even more papal than the pope. So the part of the apparatus that has worked so far on these projects, which is still undernourished, is to say, where capable people have been from the first financial perspective forward when we set up this system, leaving and today we find them everywhere, mainly abroad, rather than in the places for which we trained them. But also in this rest of the work, there was obviously some thought from the top that this was mainly the control of investors, of operators, of those who proposed programs, of municipalities, of businesses, and so on, which in practice seemed to be so many times that someone proposed a project, but received a written response within a month that the three commas were wrong and after repairing those braces, it took three months before the next answer. First, we need to change our thinking, and that's what we're doing and it's changing. So, everyone who works at the national level to invest these funds is here to help investors. So they have to help them prepare these projects by going through the Brussels Square so that they don't normally communicate through long letters, but directly. There are phones, e-mails and so on. In addition, additional human resources reinforcement is now a priority for future staff for these purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you very much. My friend Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u37	Dear Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. The areas in which Slovenia has to invest to ensure a high level of quality of life and the welfare of its citizens are numerous. In order to ensure a high level of quality of life and welfare for citizens, Slovenia must invest in transport, environment, energy, health, social and other infrastructure. It is particularly important to invest in ensuring the long-term competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, i.e. in research and development, innovation, digitisation, education and training for the professions of the future. Only with a long-term competitive economy will we be able to finance the high level of public services ourselves, to face demographic movements that are currently unfortunately unfavourable, and to ensure the lasting and stable well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the government have a strategy to which areas or to whom and how much European funding will be allocated? In practice, this will mean that decisions will be made on the use of funds for or - or decisions, so that certain areas will receive sufficient resources and certain areas will receive little or no funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you very much. President of the Government, would you like to supplement?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. European funds are not the only source of investment. We must certainly be able to make our own resources, budget and other resources available at national and local levels, and in particular by creating an environment for private investment to provide sufficient resources for all these purposes. Also for innovation, for research and development. In particular, this area is one of the five priority areas in this European framework, and it is also partly possible to invest these funds through these frameworks. So it is not just up to us and it is not our decision in this sense whether we will now give everything for digital society and for transformations and innovation or for health care. This is about proportionality, and of course we take that into account. As has already been said, it is a combination of domestic and European resources in many projects. Finally, European funds also require their own participation. This also sets priorities within this space of manoeuvre. But it's important to know that the pace here is severe. There's never been so little time to prepare programs since it's a front loading. So when it comes to the recovery and resilience fund, it will be possible to spend most of the funds immediately, you won't have to wait for years, until 2026. And it is also in our interest that we invest the funds as soon as possible, because we will invest them sooner, they will have effects. It doesn't matter whether you build a road today and thereby enable a region to develop significantly faster in the next five years or build this road only five years later, and this region is lagging behind at that time. Removing bureaucratic barriers is crucial here, and that is one of our priorities. Realising this priority, true de-de-barcation is also one of the basic conditions for de-centralisation in order to make a fair investment across the country, so that this will not end up in central Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer, will answer the question of Aljaž Kovacič regarding the course of education, with a possible significant deterioration of the epidemiological picture.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. This is the answer to a question from the previous meeting of the National Assembly, which will be a little different today than it was last month. Of course, the reason for this is the current epidemiological picture. This is, in fact, one of the two fundamental criteria that we also need to take into account in the field of education and education during this period, at the moment when we are preparing decisions on the most optimal way or model for the implementation of the whole process. The current epidemiological picture, as you can see, is more than difficult. It is also today that the epidemic is re-declared for another 30 days. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also followed this in the preparation of various measures in all different areas of public life. Among them, there was also a need to pay great attention to the educational process, which directly concerns 20% of the total population and indirectly affects or affects much more than half of the population. In this context, there were two fundamental criteria of the two pillars that we had to respect in seeking the most optimal approach to the current situation. One criterion was the current epidemiological picture, and the other criterion was to find a way for the most optimal and quality implementation of the educational process at a given time. So in this sense, the decision that was presented to you at the end of last week and we activated it at the beginning of this week. Given that I am running out of time now and that I have a similar question later on, I will then be able to explain further the reasons and content of this measure below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovacic, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. My question was to make a public statement on where that breaking point would be, so that parents could get ready with their children to close schools if that were to happen. That's why we're also in the List of Marjan Šarc, and I think we've called a committee meeting in May to have more than four months to prepare criteria that would be publicly available, as I said, that we could all prepare ourselves for possible models a, b, c, which you've been talking about. The fact is that distance education is not comparable to classroom education. This has been said by both teachers and students, not to mention all those children who have special needs or who have such or other things that they cannot normally follow the lesson. What has happened to us in practice is that, in fact, in our belief, you have not shown in the right way any closure of schools, nor have you prepared schools for this. This morning, I saw the news of Arnes, who somehow took care of the technology that due to an emergency raid, there were problems with student enrolment. If someone didn't expect an extraordinary raid on the students at home, I don't know when they can expect it. These are things that are unacceptable to quality learning. A month ago, and I'm asking you again today: Who is this profession that decides to close schools? Is it just politics or is it that when you say that such and different professions are involved, psychologists, educators, sociologists and, finally, teachers, professors and principals were involved? One of the principals' associations said that the way schools were closed was wrong and that they did not agree that schools had actually closed in such a way.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u45	We have experience from this spring season on our part. This situation, which is happening today, even though it is alarming in the first place because of ourselves and our lack of relation to the seriousness of the situation and the danger of carrying out the infections that we are doing to ourselves, must unfortunately not surprise us anymore. And you're right. What happened with Arnes today wasn't good. I've already ordered a report and an explanation of why. Let me say that all those who use the MS-Teams system have not had this problem and fortunately it is the majority of users. As for the decisions themselves and the predictability of what we have to do in the educational process. See, based on spring experience, based on cooperation with both epidemiological and pedagogical parts of the profession and our responsibility as a government, we have prepared this publication, which lists four basic models with all the basic starting points and rules. All those who participated in this story also participate in the consultative group, which I organise twice a week on my own, to obtain data on current state assessments and on the implementation of the educational process, which will then together decide on the best part of the measures or decisions on the side, I will say, this pedagogical and professional, let's say, political part of the decision. On the other hand, we also have an epidemiological part of the profession and a consultative group within the Government, and this segment is then somehow presented to the Government before a final decision is taken. The optimal solution that we are implementing this moment, indeed a temporary solution for this school week, has been adopted in a uniform manner both through professional work, with representatives of directors and with the epidemiological work of the profession. So much for the process itself. It is very important that we are all actively involved in it and that, above all, we are very constructive and understandingly approach the most optimal part of the solution at a given time. I agree with you, distance education is not comparable and not as good as class education. However, we regret the statistics on infections and the spread of infections which [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u46	Comrade Kovacic, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you again for your words and thank you to the Minister for your complementary reply. Our children are too important that we can actually start neglecting them at this stage or at any time, and we know what a good education system means, and I hope we will have it in the future in the Republic of Slovenia. In the words of the Minister, I think that schools should only be closed this week, followed later by potato holidays, which I'm kind of not getting along with, given that an epidemic has been declared today. After those lists you have shown at the press conferences, it is then somehow assumed that schools should be closed for at least a month and not just one week, as you said today. As there are still at least a few students in my opinion, the real family does not have enough computers at home to be able to monitor the teaching smoothly, that there are problems and that there is still some confusion, I would like to ask that at one of the next meetings also for the benefit of all our children.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2020, in the framework of the votes. Minister for Environment and Space Mag. Andrej Vizjak will answer Mojce Škrnjar's question regarding the suspension of the revision of the construction of the C0 sewerage canal in the water protection area in the Municipality of Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u49	Dear Member! Perhaps some of the vibrations in the public were caused by a decision of the Ministry of the Environment not to order a revision of the construction of channel C0 in accordance with a project task that was created in the previous mandate or that was prepared in the Ministry under the previous minister. One of the formal reasons is that there was not enough resources before the rebalancing. But there is an even more important substantive reason. In particular, this audit refers to the content, which is, to a large extent or even more covered by the decision to draw up an environmental impact assessment for channel C0. In fact, in the audit project task, a whole set of content was covered, not all that are covered by the sub-legislative acts governing the content of the environmental impact assessment. The recent decision of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment is that an investor, the Municipality of Ljubljana, will have to obtain environmental consent for the complete connecting channel C0 after a prior environmental impact assessment. This route will therefore, in view of the technical solutions that have been modified in the meantime, be examined in the light of technical solutions from all environmental aspects: both impacts on groundwater, water resources and impacts on natural values, in particular nature 2000, which is taking place there, on real estates and on all the factors that are associated with environmental impacts. That's the most important thing. The other thing that is very important is that, in the framework of the audit that we are preparing and coordinating now, because it is an inter-departmental audit, we will, in fact, revise the choice of this route. I think that's the key issue. By the way, the audit requested by the previous ministry does not answer this question at all. And I think that's the most important thing. Was the route of channel C0 selected through the water protection area the most appropriate, the form itself, or was it actually the environmental and substantive most appropriate route? I have looked at some of the documents that inspired this decision that C0 is the most appropriate option through the water protection area, according to the investor, this is the Municipality of Ljubljana, but I have doubts about both the cost-effectiveness of this decision and the acceptability to the environment. So without worrying, I would like to say before continuing to say that this project is currently stopped, no activity is taking place, no authorisation can be granted, all payments are stopped, including those which should be lagging behind, because we do not want to take risks at the Ministry of the Environment by paying for the already falling situations, given that we do not know whether this project is even environmentally acceptable. When an environmental impact assessment is made and environmental consensus is given, of course, if it does, this may lead to the continuation of the project. Until then, we cannot assume these responsibilities. As far as the remainder of the necessary construction permits are concerned, of course they cannot be issued and construction cannot continue until the environmental impact assessment has been concluded.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u50	Your Honor, would you like a word of compliment?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you very much. No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Restoršek will first answer Sam Bevk's question regarding the closure of post offices.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u53	Dear Mr. only Bevk! Dear Presidents, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking. Because you have expressed the wish that I am a karsed concrete I will answer on a case-by-case basis and with specific information. First question. What is the position on the closure of post offices in Slovenia? On the first question, you know my position on accessibility to public services. I think that Slovenia needs to develop so that the level of services in different municipalities and places is comparable. That's it, and I'm aware of that, ideal, which is difficult to achieve 100%. However, as a country, we owe it to us, where it is within our competence and power, to exercise our interest in the fact that our citizens have the public services they need for normal life and work. As regards the services of Post Slovenia, I personally engaged myself and therefore no post office was closed from October 2019 until today. During this period, the Post Office converted six mails into contract mail. In the same period, it re-adopted five contractual mails under the regular composition. On the second question you ask me whether I advocate access to all postal services for all citizens, not just for the profitability of Post Slovenia. And if so, what we will do to ensure that. On this issue, I can say that we know that the postal service market in the Republic of Slovenia is liberalised. The responsibilities of our ministry relate exclusively to the provision of the universal postal service and the financing of the universal postal service, as you yourself have rightly stated. Slovenia's postal service in its business fully complies with the universal postal service requirements. As you yourself said, mail also carries out a market activity that we as MGRT do not have the authority to do. In this respect, the Post Office of Slovenia is, of course, adapting to the market and consumer needs. In this respect, it does not differ from mail elsewhere in the world. The third question that you asked me: Does it hold information that the Post Office of Slovenia should maintain only 217 of its offices in order to optimize its operations instead of 528? According to information Post Office of Slovenia, the postal network currently comprises 486 contact points, 319 classic post offices, 141 contractual and 26 mobile post offices. In addition, there are 52 letter mails on the ground, where users can provide services via a letterbox. In the last ten years, only 16 post offices have been closed or shut down by country. From September 2019 to the end of 2020, no post office or contact point will be closed. Question four: Can the envisaged change in optimization have a negative impact on the situation of employees and thus, for example, on the risk of reducing writings? As I have already said, the Ministry's competence relates exclusively to the scope of the universal service. In the framework of my powers, I cannot interfere with the business of Post Slovenia, which is not part of the public sector, but is subject to market legality. I do not think that optimisation should take place at the expense of employees. Question five: What is your position on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Postal Services Act by the Postal Workers Union? With regard to the last question, the proposal by the postal trade union for changes and additions to the Postal Service Act at the Ministry, we note that the main solution to the proposal is to amend the way in which the compensation for the net cost of universal postal services is paid, where this means an unjustified financial burden for the provider of this service. It's called Mail. I can express my understanding of the efforts to implement the financial sustainability system for the universal postal service, but I must also point out that the pre-condition of the net cost and undue financial burden of Posting Slovenia has not yet been met due to the provision of the universal postal service as an argument for regulatory changes in the area. Although Slovenia’s post office has already prepared its net cost calculations three times so far, it has not been established in the process of assessing claims to date that a net cost has been incurred in carrying out the universal postal service, taking into account the intangible benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Comrade Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Thank you very much, Mr Restorationek, for the answers to all the five questions I have asked you at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. Of course, you have already been in the previous government, as well as in this government, repeatedly asked about this same topic. Of course, I am glad that the trend of closing post offices has stopped slightly, but postal services are not as accessible as they used to be. Not only in the countryside, but also in Ljubljana. Where I have an office apartment, they split the schedule and are outside the post office, even now in the crown of time, long lines of waiting. So, for example, in my constituency, in the lower Idrija, which is almost a city, they closed down the post office. Not only that, the post office even sold business premises, although there are thousands of residents of the Idria Municipality. We will discuss this subject in the National Assembly, because the Postal Workers Union has submitted 7,000 signatures to the National Assembly to amend the Postal Services Act. I support this amendment of the law, because this legislation, which is proposed, would cost the implementation of the universal postal service to the public budget. However, I also know that the Agency for Communications Networks and Services has said that there are no legal conditions for assessing the fairness of the financial burden of mail. That is why I propose that, with this change, we create the legal conditions and that the post office from the state budget will receive part of the funds for its smooth operation. So much for me. Mr. Minister, if you have any further comments [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you. With regard to the trade unions' request, I can say that the Post Office has prepared its calculations of the net cost of universal postal services for 2016 – €17.4 million, for 2017 – €32.1 million and for 2018 – €36.9 million, but has not yet been found to have incurred a net cost in carrying out the universal postal service, taking into account the intangible benefits. So these are Mail requests, and we just didn't get to make it pay.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Zdravko Restoršek, will answer Edvard Paulič's question regarding the incentives for small value through the vouchers. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. National Assembly, presidents! It's a pleasure to see the sheepmen come to know each other as a good and useful measure. Simply put, it is simply a matter of encouraging small values, adapted and intended exclusively for small and medium-sized enterprises or espionage. The individual voucher allows for quick, easy co-financing of eligible costs up to a maximum of EUR 9 000 999. The whole process has been simplified, is fast and goes electronically. He was and is the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. Public calls for a total of 14 vouchers have been opened since January 2019. Their interest was extremely great, which means that we correctly perceived the needs of entrepreneurs and went to them with an easy way of playing and getting incentives. So far, all available quota has been allocated for 2021 and the Slovenian Enterprise Fund has provisionally closed this measure in July. If new applications were accepted, this would mean that companies could only be paid in 2022. The realisation so far is as follows: from the start of implementation in 2019 to including 9 October 2020, EUR 15.2 million of contracts with more than 3 000 500 small enterprises have been signed. Since the sheepdogs have been recognised as a very welcome and useful measure, one of the options, which was also mentioned in the question, is the Member to provide additional funds. We have already planned this in the Proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021. €10.6 million is planned for 2021. The Slovenian entrepreneurship fund will be able to reopen public calls for volunteers after adoption. If necessary, we will also look for additional solutions in cooperation with the SVRK. Let me add the following. Small and medium-sized enterprises are in a particularly difficult situation due to the consequences of the pandemic on the economy. At the Ministry, we have specifically dedicated ourselves to maintaining their competitiveness and resilience. In line with this, we have also stressed the improvement of the growth and competitiveness of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the planning of the new Instrument for the Recovery of the Next Generation of the EU in 2021-2027. One of the funds is REACT-EU, where through the proposed measures we fully address all the objectives that are of paramount importance to SMEs, green, resilient and digital. We are aware that these objectives will be key to competitiveness, and within this REACT-EU project, the Ministry has proposed an additional EUR 12 million to be earmarked for small-value incentives for SMEs and an additional EUR 7 million to be earmarked for researchers, i.e. for research and development projects in small and medium-sized enterprises. We are still coordinating the contents with the European Commission. However, it is a matter of harmonising details, so we expect the green light for these incentives to come soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Comrade Paulich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you, President, for your word. We need to know that the economy will be key to getting out of this crisis and must be helped. I certainly agree with you, the procedure is simple, the measure is fast and has apparently been taken, given that the funds have run out already in July 2020. I must say that this measure has been taken, compared to some of the other PKP laws, such as loan guarantees. This voucher is intended for companies to position themselves on the global market in order to increase their competences as well as competitiveness. You mentioned that this call was closed this year, which is what I find to be in some sense pointless, given that companies are getting the funds paid back and they have to pawn their money. We have proposed an amendment in the balance to increase these funds, but unfortunately it has not been adopted, as has many others. You mentioned that for 2021 the amount of these funds increased to 10.7 million, this year 8 million was earmarked, which means that in 2021 it will not be sufficient to take account of this year's experience. However, for 2022 these funds are significantly less than 2.4 million. This is how I appeal, however, if it is possible to increase or open these public calls in some way this year, when we find that this crisis has hit small and medium-sized enterprises very hard. I also appeal that additional funds be allocated for 2021.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you. I agree with you that this, as I have also said in the introduction, is a measure that, due to the ease of approach, due to the digital mode of payment, due to the speed of the one that has greatly helped small and medium-sized enterprises to overcome these difficult times. When we figured it out, we didn't even figure it out for help after the coude, but for some normal approach. It is therefore important that we reach at least this minimum sum for the following year. It is important that we now try to help small and medium-sized enterprises from this package of European Union renewals in both years. Of course, resources are not always sufficient, but still this number is impressive – 3,000 500 companies in this way. Since there are 14 content points, I would also say that in the context of these postcovid measures from the Slovenian Enterprise Fund we have helped small and medium-sized enterprises in two other ways. A public call has been made for a target group of small and medium-sized enterprises up to 5 employees to assist in the acquisition of safeguards in order to help them in this postcovid period, here in the first case for 10 million funds. In the second case, it is a measure for micro-enterprises with 1-4 employees. And in these companies, the current solution provides for the provision of 5 million in the physical sense of protective masks to companies with up to 4 employees. This is not a direct topic of what you asked me, but it shows that we are aware of the problem of small and medium-sized enterprises and that we are looking for solutions. In any case, we will do our utmost to continue or implement this instrument by means of European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Jerco Korče, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simon Kustec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! Dear Minister, different countries have managed their school system at the time of the increase in the number of infections in a variety of ways, some have gone to some different classes, some have been closed, others have been conducted normally. But if we leave the rest of the countries, of course, we are here in Slovenia, and if we leave these technical measures when you decided in some way to close schools, when people could still cash in the vouchers, thank God that today's decision has been made that it will not be so that people walk freely between regions, it is the fact that in this process we have closed schools to a certain class. Now, beyond these technical measures of scenario A, B, C and all matters, I would like to focus more on the awareness that in this way children's difficulties are increasing, that further training to teachers makes it even harder to see what these pressures are also behind the four walls at home, because the screen is even harder to show the child's feelings and distress. In normal times, what happens at home and where learning or other problems occur is often hidden. I think that the time has been enough to devote a lot of attention to this work in addition to these technical measures, how to adapt education in its entirety to the new system that we are witnessing to today, and this is a system of distance learning. You said we could hold on to this one more week, and then it's vacation. Also vacations in the way they will be carried out within the epidemic, within some different measures, when children are behind four walls, are something completely different than if children are on the streets, if they can be on the playgrounds and so on. And things like that make things worse. That's why I'm really interested: What have you, as Minister, done in these four months to better prepare a system of distance education? Today my colleague has already highlighted and you have already replied that only the technical aspect of access to online classrooms has collapsed. And if this technical part is already walking us to this point, that obviously only this part wasn't ready for a distance learning system, then I don't really care how unprepared we are for this new system, the new circumstances of these things that I'm alerting to, and these are the hardships of students, the hardships of employees and, above all, of students who have learning problems. Since we already know these inequalities logically will deepen, students will somehow have less access to knowledge and to the teaching process in this contact they otherwise have with the teacher. I'm really curious: How many were made in this area within four months?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u66	Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Ambassador Korca, for your question. I think you have raised the fundamental development issue of education and education in our country. This situation with the Coronavirus has, in a way, accelerated something that we should have begun years ago to intensively examine, namely, what is the vision of knowledge and also the mission, the responsibility of the educational process for the future, the concept of knowledge and the needs of our younger generations, so that they can then successfully take over the active mission and responsibility in society, at the end of the day, also in the country. This has been particularly strongly confirmed by the activation of digitalisation in education and education, and also by the priorities our younger generations have in relation to their daily lives. They probably know how to connect and use their cell phone before they can open their first book and understand why they use it. These are specifics, these are also specifics of development among people, and that is, if we are to respect and follow in the field of education and education somewhere, then also in the field of education. In fact, in this day-to-day situation, which has certainly left us quite a lot in the beginning of spring, I will say, surprised overnight, but did not leave us in any way unprepared. This is precisely because of this digital development of society and the fact that we have given quite a few attention to this in the field of education and education. What many pilot projects have already taken place, used, and developed digital tools for education. There are first forms of electronic, then interactive textbooks, work volumes. All of this was what we were able to use immediately at that time. At the same time, what you have very rightly pointed out is that I personally would not attribute it to so much educational work, but to broader social images and balance in society, that not all have the same baseline conditions that these basic educational equipment or teaching tools can also be obtained. This is our responsibility now and we have also taken a very active approach together, I must say this, with donors who have understood how important this segment is. In this sense, we have, in fact, set out some ways how, in these given circumstances, we can be resolved in this epidemiological state. At the same time, this story has told us how a very thoughtful, stable and, above all, professionally set new foundations, new starting points for the perception and development of the knowledge concept and the educational process in this regard. And that's what we're doing now. Although it's not seen in public, it doesn't hear, I believe it's not so resounding and interesting, and it doesn't have some sort of aberration in it, but it's the other way around. One group is already actively preparing the first draft of a further ten-year strategic development and a vision of knowledge and education process. We are doing this in the first place through the professional cores and I expect the first proposal to be prepared by the end of this year and will then be extended in the debate to broader group expert debates and then also to debates that are linked to all those groups that are essentially directly linked to education and education. This must somehow be breathed together and on these foundations then also present some solutions for the future. Let me also say that, as part of our cooperation and as part of our role at the level of the European Union, I myself have advocated this concept from day one among my fellow ministers from the Member States of the European Union and that we somehow share here a uniform assessment that this is necessary. However, it is necessary, as we say, to adjust the needs of the time that is now and the time that is coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Comrade Korča, do you have a request to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I understand all this and I very much welcome the thought of some long-term development, a ten-year plan. I believe that every government has somehow sought this digitisation, because it is part of the modern world. However, we are now talking about two separate matters, an extraordinary situation in which we have found ourselves, I will say, overnight. During the night, we found ourselves, March, April, all of us then understood that the situation had somehow come and surprised the diverse systems in the country unprepared. But today we had a period of time, a certain summer period in which I expected and sincerely believed that each ministry was very narrow for some part of its efforts, not in ten years, how the matter would be digitized, but narrowly, so how will we be prepared to get into the second wave. The fact was that we all knew that the second wave was coming, the fact is that he was also Prime Minister 17. On the 6th, or in June, he pointed out the second wave, and some sense that the ministries were unable to prepare matters was generated. And when I'm in school, I'm really asking you one more time, so distance education. You've obviously decided on this scenario relatively quickly. You didn't kind of insist that schools would be the last ones to close. So we need to know how we can approach these pressures. How did you prepare the scenarios for students with learning problems to receive as much education and education as possible from a distance, so that after a while we can say, yes, we have a learning behind, but we have minimized what has been given? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u71	If we are talking about the current period, then let me tell you what was going on, so that we are now ready for the current period. In addition to the experience we have had, in addition to the experience of not only the Ministry, we are talking here about the experiences and reactions of the relevant profession and what the competent profession has been doing and carried on as some good solution for the future. I am talking about what has also been done at the level of school management, what individual teachers have done during this interim period, what children themselves or their parents have done in the final stage to prepare themselves during this period. What I can say, and it was fundamental, what we did, is what we did. At the level of the Institute of Education, we have digitized all curricula definitively, then attributed them with all the electronic learning tools that teachers can use in their work in case education goes further. This was successfully completed and is ready. During this period, we again carried out a number of retraining activities through the Institute of Education, mainly of teachers who needed some additional skills in distance education, and this in relation to the use of these computer tools and educational tools. Then we got new equipment, at this time additional computer equipment, 4 thousand new computers. We gave Arnes an additional EUR 4 million to prepare for this period. And once again, I apologize to all of you for what happened to Arnes this morning, and I also expect a report and explain why it happened. We have also worked intensively with Microsoft in this period, which provides MS-Teams, such as this fundamental single education platform. In short, there was a lot going on in these segments. What we have also decided in this current decision, which is really only related to the fact that it is now necessary to protect individuals from infections, we have left all schools for children with special needs open and have this moment in fact education in schools for exactly the reason you mentioned. We gave instruction to our school staff that for those students with learning problems who are in need of individual attention, they are paying real attention to them. Even though it is going, and I sincerely wish it were just one week of this temporary measure, we are, believe me, extremely considerate and must be.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The next question will be posed by Predrag Baković, Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u73	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! The independent Slovenia met with mass migrations in 2015, the first wave reached us somewhere between 17 and 22 September when about 3 000 500 people arrived in our country. Our country for migrants all the time, and so it is today, represents a transit country. In the first wave of some major problems in the transition of these people we did not have; the second wave of migrants, when almost half a million migrants arrived in Slovenia, reached Slovenia on 16 October 2015 and this wave lasted somewhere until 8 March 2016. The daily number of migrants ranged from 8 to 9,000, and occasionally these numbers also exceeded the number of 10,000. The most problematic was the 21st. Ten. 2015, when some less than 13 thousand migrants arrived in one day in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. That's more than we've detected this year in nine months together. Due to these truly large numbers and outstanding problems, which at the time posed a real challenge to the police, the then government prepared and the National Assembly was 21. Ten. 2015 confirmed the amendment to the Defence Act. At that time, the 37.a Member was adopted today, which provides for the possibility that the National Assembly, with a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present, on a proposal from the Government, decides that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who participate with the police in the wider protection of the State border may exercise certain powers, such as warning, travel, temporary restrictions on the movement of persons and participation in the management of groups and crowds. The National Assembly authorised the powers provided for in Article 37a of the Defence Act, the Slovenian Army, between February and May 2016. During the period from 1. 1. 2020 and 30. 9. 2020, so in the first nine months of the year, police officers in the country dealt with 11 000 855 illegal crossings, and in the same period last year 11 000 931, so the number is comparable or is currently less than 0.6%. Friday, 9. 10. a meeting of the National Security Council was held to discuss both the covid-19 disease epidemic and illegal migration. In parallel with both themes, the desire to activate Article 37a has reopened and I therefore ask you: Will you give an initiative to activate Article 37a and when? What are the reasons for this activation under Article 37a of the Defence Act? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member! In the introduction, I would first like to stress what you, Sir Baković, correctly concluded that in 2015, 2016 and in recent years, these numbers are unmatched. On the other hand, it is not only an incomparable number but also an incomparable way of controlling or identifying migration issues. So if in that year, as you said, even with the amendment of the Defence and Activation Act 37.a., we gave the police additional assistance for those exceptional conditions, however, it is fair to say that this Slovenian public knows that in those years it was actually about how they organized the transport of all these people through Slovenia. Remember those recordings from our southern border, especially there in Brežice, on the Coast and around there, when these people who came from Croatia were processed, misled, loaded or boarded either on buses or on buses and via Slovenia only transited. In the coming years – this was particularly intense in both last year and this year – it is a completely different type of migration. Thus, it is to a large extent a fully dispersed migration, in particular this year an intensive identification of so-called organised gangs smuggling people, i.e. smugglers trying to get people out of Eastern countries either to Italy or to Austria. That is why these things are quite incomparable in 2015 and today. Hold what you said last year's numbers are about the same as last year's. However, I have already made it clear on SNAV that these two numbers are also slightly incomparable, because we must be aware that this year we had a good two, almost three months of complete lockdown, when there were no migration crossings when people did not flee Bosnia and Serbia. And given the intensity or number of people we have here today, we can talk about this intensity being about 30% more intense from January to September. What happens to the end is hard to predict. It is true, however, that the activation of Article 37a itself was never a policy proposal, but always the police. So, the first proposal for the activation of Article 37a was submitted last year, I speak by the police, in the government of Marjan Šarc. By then, the police had already proposed that the military should be further involved. That first proposal did not receive a green light, nor did it come to the offices of the ministry or then the minister. After the interviews I had in the parliamentary groups, the decision not to get things done even to Parliament was taken by the then national security adviser, Mr Črnčec, with the argument “the police will be able to do it already”. So this is, in my opinion, quite uncreditable also because, after all, it is not just about finding out how many of these migrants we are able to intercept, but on the other hand, we need to find out how much they are being squeezed out, because, finally, we are paying this price in this year, when we accept or when we owe debt under bilateral agreements to migrants from Italy. The next proposal was made immediately after our term of office. As you recall, I came before you Members with a proposal, unfortunately I was unsuccessful, although I did have some indications in my delegation and in the LMŠ party, or perhaps naively calculated that this proposal could have been accepted, but eventually it fell. Last week, I think it was last Monday that I received a repeat proposal from the police, i.e. the Director-General of the Police, to activate this article. I immediately ordered the professional services to begin to coordinate matters first inter-departmentally. As you know, this proposal must first be adopted by the Government. I am counting on this proposal to be intersectorally coordinated by the end of this week, which means that it could be held at the government's meeting next week. Then, of course, as I did in the first round or for the first time, I will come to all the parliamentary groups and explain or explain extensively why this proposal is back on the table and ask for your support again.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. My friend Buckowitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I agree with you that this is a slightly different migration issue. It is more dispersed, and there are also many perpetrators who commit crimes, but it is still a matter of transit through the country. So the target country of these migrants is not really Slovenia. In particular, I would like to point out that we Social Democrats are both committed to human rights and, of course, we also understand the plight of the people at the southern border facing this issue of irregular migration. And in this context, I remember the last time, I'm going to say what you're doing in the post of Minister, you're going to say several times that you're going to remove a certain number of police officers from the border because of the problem within the country during the corona crisis. Let me remind you that the state border, which is also the Schengen border, is protected by border police officers and is so-called Schengen personnel, who, with all the techniques available, carry out border tasks and are generally not allowed to be used to perform other tasks within the country, nor are technical means, vehicles and so on. And their task is to prevent illegal border crossings, to deter cross-border crime and to take action against persons who have crossed the border illegally. That's why I want to know: Is your initiative after the entry into force of Article 37a of the Defence Act linked to difficult security conditions or is it here intended to remove a certain number of border police officers from the country? In this context, I am also interested in: How do you, in practice, understand the content of a constitutional decision determining that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces exercise their powers exclusively and, when exercised, exercise them together with the police, which means they cannot exercise them independently? I'm also curious: Do you know how many times between February and May 2016, when Article 37a was activated, the Slovenian Army used one of the four powers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u80	Yeah. If I start in the back. Hold what you said. In general, the police have specific tasks in control of the state border, special powers, including special equipment. No one has talked about it, nor has anyone from the border to withdraw at this point. It is true, however, that in the event that this coronation actually collapses in some way and that these police officers are more needed within the country, we will, of course, be forced, even I think, to help citizens first. So first there will be the life or death of our citizens, then there will be our health, only in the third phase will there be this eventual prevention of the intrusion of migrants, which I think is perfectly logical. As for the activation of Article 37a and what the military can or cannot do, we have already tried to prove to you at our last joint presentation or my presentation that, of course, it doesn't matter or the soldier works only after the 37th or even after the 37th article, because in the first case it is only in some way the eye or the ear of a policeman, that is to say, accompany the migrant, then call the policeman, tell him, there and there, or listen, however. However, in the case of Article 37a, certain powers may apply where the mandate is particularly important, according to my assessment, which allows for the retention and direction of these migrants, which means that it can in some way block the transition itself and direct these migrants to the relevant police officers who are in charge of the procedure, who have these powers to conduct the procedure. Nobody imagines a soldier doing things on his own. Always and in any case, it will be under the control or guidance of the police. However, we are also slightly different here, so it is my opinion that if a police officer directs two soldiers at the border, enough for a chief of police to do so, there is no need for any soldier to be accompanied by police officers, because what matters is the direction and direction of such actions, not the operational walk or the operational control at the border itself. How long was the use of the powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in 2016? I can say that the majority of these powers were largely not used because the type of migration was different. At that time, the army was very helpful in two segments. One was the possibility of holding people back that it wasn't some free walk at the border crossings. Another part, which was also very important from these powers, was an order or a journey. At that point, if you remember, the army actually somehow directed these people either to the trains or to the buses. But as far as cooperation with the mayors is concerned, this is my estimate of relatively good and somehow, as I know [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by colleague Alenka Jeraj, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Brickler to the King.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Minister, welcome to the rest of your colleagues! In recent months, we have read again about hungry children, malnourished children, and so on, although at the same time we are looking at articles on overweight children. Given the development of our country and the financial situation and so on, it looks at many state institutions that are supposed to take care of the socially disadvantaged in this country, I estimate that such children should not be. That's why I'm asking you: Do you have similar information with you at the Ministry or are these more of a press story, although certain records are, if we also monitor how many people are helped by the Red Cross, Karitas and so on? In the country we have organised centres for social work, which should be able to detect potential needs on the ground and also to take appropriate action. I want to know: Do social work centres detect needs and act, and how do you assess the effectiveness of social work centres? Since we reorganized them years ago, I'm curious: Is their work more effective? Has this reorganisation been effective and brought better field work or better perception of all the problems that we are supposed to be dealing with? Has the reorganisation been effective, and are we now better at addressing the problems of social exclusion and threats? Please also say: What does all the country provide for socially disadvantaged families or individuals whose ratings are granted or who are assisted? How much does that actually benefit them? What kind of financial resources are these for the country?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, thank you for this question, which I have received at the very end of the week, when we are also marking the day of the fight against poverty, which, too, this government is paying great attention and, of course, its framework to the ministry I am leading. In the prevention of child malnutrition and hunger, it is essential that these children have a timely and effective response. Social work centres are those institutions that have to respond first in the field to check the situation when they receive any notice or are in any way aware of the child’s risk, including hunger or malnutrition. In the system of hungry and malnourished children, the most easily detects the healthcare system, in the framework of mandatory systematic checks, which is particularly important for pre-school children who are not involved in organised pre-school care, and in the education system where children are involved. It's a good thing you asked me about social work centres and this reorganisation a few years ago. Social work centres which are placed in this system as central institutions in the field of social protection and also as those who decide at first instance on rights from public funds and rights from parental protection and family benefits are very important in this system. This reorganisation in 2018 was intended to enable professional workers in the units of social work centres to save time for bureaucracy, if I may say so, and to give administration and thus more time, more room for manoeuvre to work with persons, with families whose survival depends on social assistance. Now that we're visiting the terrain, and as part of my field visits, I usually also receive opposite responses from social work centres in the areas we visit. Professionals at post-reorganisation social work centres also experience more pressure on the work of administrative work and less opportunities for professional assistance and time for direct work with individuals and families because information systems are not optimally integrated and adapted. Here we have a great challenge to ensure in the near, medium-term future such a way of working, such an organisation of work, that professional workers will have sufficient time and opportunities for professional advice, help families to regulate relations between family members and members, provide professional advice and help with child care and train families to carry out their daily role. Otherwise, at the Ministry, we are working hard to ensure that all forms of social assistance aimed at helping children, in the prevention of poverty and incurring, not least, in order to achieve their purpose. With this broad range of measures through social transfers, we are working to ensure that the social inclusion of all individuals is as high as possible. If I am going specifically to help ensure adequate nutrition or prevent child hunger, I can say that there is a right here to grant snacks and lunches which are granted under legal conditions. We also provide the socially weak with financial social assistance, which also provides funds for children's nutrition. I can say that we have ensured in the covida epidemic, and this possibility is that those who are home-schooled have a problem, are socially weak, that at the social work centre they ask for extraordinary financial social assistance, are cited as the reason for this crisis and can also be helped in this way. So far, because I'm limited in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Madam Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u86	Yeah, I'll add that the minister will have time to say everything he's prepared. So maybe you could just keep doing that. Still, I'd like to ask you a few more words about this: What will you do now if this reorganization has not been successful? Have you done any analysis yet? Do you have any ideas yet? Because it really doesn't make sense that employees at social work centres only deal with papers if they're actually there because of people. They also studied this to assess people’s hardships and to help them, not to think that at the end of the day, everyone was simply folding papers and the hardships remained.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you very much. If you would really like to continue to answer the first part of the question, which also referred to the role of humanitarian organisations in preventing and assisting children's malnutrition and hunger. In addition to this lunch and lunch subsidy covered by the Ministry of Labour, food is also organised in schools, kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools: breakfast, lunch, lunch. However, since 2014, the Ministry of Labour has been implementing an operational programme for material assistance to the most vulnerable, co-financed by European funds. Under this programme, the Ministry will ensure the purchase of large quantities of food products, which are then distributed to the most needed in a public invitation to tender to the selected partner organisation, Slovenska karitas and the Red Cross of Slovenia. At the same time, it is important that these two organisations also implement a variety of accompanying measures, because only food is not enough. We are trying to ensure that this problem is addressed comprehensively. Volunteers and those involved in this operational programme also provide information, individual advice, education, workshops, camps, associations, teaching aids and the like. All of this is intended for aid recipients and their social inclusion and empowerment. Otherwise, on this operational programme in 2020, due to covid-19 and the response to this epidemic, we increased by almost a quarter the original funds intended to buy food products. This has also increased the quantity of products delivered from the originally planned 3 000 250 tonnes to around 4 000 tonnes. These food packages and all the accompanying measures I have previously listed are available to people in distress at more than 370 distribution places of both humanitarian organisations. I may conclude this answer with a brief answer to a purely final question. As you know, a fairer and more transparent system of social transfers in Slovenia is one of the three main priorities of my ministry and the team I run. By already looking for ways to enable social work centres and working advisers and advisers there to carry out their initial mission rather than to deal with administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Ambassador Matej Tašner Vatovec will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you, Vice President. Minister! Last week, the academic public was more or less upset about the agreement to appoint the director of the Pedagogical Institute. This is Professor Igor Žnidaršič Žagar, who led this institution during the previous term of office, the previous five years, which in some ways also put the institution back on its feet after the many financial problems it had and so on. He renegotiated on a public invitation to tender published by the institution in March 2020 and was also selected as the only suitable candidate by the Management Board of the Pedagogical Institute for reappointment. The Governing Board has taken this decision unanimously or without a vote against and has also obtained a positive opinion from the Scientific Council, where all researchers or those working in the Scientific Council have also agreed to do so. Thus, the Governing Board proposed to the Government or asked the Government to agree on this appointment, which the Government did not give, despite the fact that the procedure was formally carried out in full compliance, despite the fact that there were several candidates and that only one suitable candidate was found to be in the tender process, and this is the current director. Well, the government has decided not to give that consent. In doing so, she intervened in the decision of the Management Board. She thus trampled on what was also the position of employees at the Pedagogical Institute, as well as her two members of the Governing Board. There are also two representatives of the Government or two members of the Governing Board appointed by the Government who had no objections or voted against, not against, or against, the appointment of Dr. Zhagar. This decision of the Government came without any justification, without any explanation, but, to say the least, it is unusual. It was usually just some form of formality for the government to give such consent. And from this point of view, it is also a very grave intervention in the autonomy of a scientific institution. That's why I'm asking you two questions: Is this decision not to give consent coming from your side, saying that you ran over the board of directors and the scientific board at your request? Since you've told the press in response that he's very capable and you'll definitely choose a good candidate after the re-enlist, I ask you: Who forgot to sign up for this invitation?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you very much, honourable Member Mr. Tashner Vatovec. On 27 March this year, the Pedagogical Institute published an invitation to tender for the post of Director of the Pedagogical Institute on the website of the Slovenian Institute of Employment and on the website of the Pedagogical Institute. This invitation to tender was opened in due time by two candidates. Following a review of the applications received, the tendering committee appointed by the Management Board of the Pedagogical Institute found that only the role of Prof. Dr. Igor Žnidaršič was formally one that met all the conditions of the invitation to tender and, as such, was to be included in the follow-up procedure. On the basis of a presentation with the candidate, the tendering committee proposed to the Management Board of the Pedagogical Institute that the applicant be appointed as the Director of the Pedagogical Institute. Following the invitation to tender submitted and the positive opinion of the Scientific Council, the Management Committee of the Pedagogical Institute decided unanimously at its meeting on 19 June this year to appoint Prof. Dr. Igor Žagar Žnidaršič as Director of the Pedagogical Institute. We're at the Ministry after that. 9. 2020, three months later, received the role of the Pedagogical Institute to obtain the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be appointed with all the history I have now read to you. On the basis of this proposal, I have also signed this proposal and, on behalf of the Ministry responsible, forwarded it to the relevant college bodies at the level of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, there, the College body of the Administrative Affairs and Appointments Commission has taken a collegiate decision not to give consent to the appointment. All of this has been done in accordance with all the legal bases and rights and responsibilities that all of those mentioned in this process have. In this light, I also expect, and it is only legal that the Management Board appoints or submits a proposal to the new Director and repeats the call. What I want, and that's what I've been communicating with, is that we get as many potential candidates and candidates as possible coming from the highest possible professional and reference circles and at the same time have managerial knowledge to manage the institution and the employees in it. Why is this still so important in the light of my parliamentary response to your fellow Member of Parliament? Because I expect the Pedagogical Institute, with its expertise, to jump very intensively and actively on the train of those who are now at the lowest core preparing a professional basis for the further development of knowledge, visions of knowledge and the further role of the teaching profession in the very educational processes for the transfer of knowledge in the future. Unfortunately, I have to say in person that I have not been received in any form by the Pedagogical Institute since I was appointed. However, I do not question this in terms of respect or legitimacy for my function, but especially in terms of the relationship that everyone in our field needs to have, especially in our field, to develop science and knowledge constructively in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you. If I interpret, the answer to the first question is no, first, it wasn't your instructions not to give consent, but if I understand correctly, it was the Government's Human Resources Commission. Maybe I'll turn the question into this: Do you agree with this, given that you have given a positive opinion on the role of the Pedagogical Institute, do you think it is right that a commission, although college and all, has made this decision? What worries me more is this other part of the answer. You say that it is the desire to re-enlist as widely as possible or as widely as possible. But to my understanding, as many media outlets have reported, it will be very difficult to find an expert who is not Dr. Jagar. This should be underlined. And I am particularly concerned about this second wish that you have expressed that the Pedagogical Institute would be involved in these expert groups to prepare for the further development of the educational system. Could this also be part of the problem? I don't know why Dr. Frog wasn't named. The fact that he was, in fact, very critical at this time about your not-so-conceived management of the system at the time of the Coronavirus epidemic, whether it could also be one of the problems, in fact, and in fact these legal excuses that you mentioned earlier, are in fact in silence and in some way to facilitate that you do not actually recognize that either you personally or the government as such does not want any critical intellectual who runs the Pedagogical Institute, but you are looking for another more relevant person, I suppose, even more obediently. Maybe a sublime question: Is it true that the staff of the Ministry of Education send letters and call people if they are willing to apply for an invitation to the Director of the Pedagogical Institute?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll just say it again. I expect that, as soon as possible, the Management Board, under its legal authority, which has been drawn up by a new call, will be invited to the post of Director of the Pedagogical Institute and that the many experts and scientists we have in the field of the Pedagogical profession in our country will be invited to attend and that the best possible candidate will be selected, who will know constructively and with all his professional authority, as well as the leadership of the Pedagogical Institute for Development and the vision of teaching work and the relationship to the knowledge of the future, will be selected. That's what this company needs. I certainly think and also appreciate if the evaluation is as I understand it from your side, so that the current director of the Pedagogical Institute can also apply to this new call. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr President, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thanks again. Since I have not received an answer to my question or those answers were only partial, I will propose to the National Assembly that it hold a general debate on this issue from several perspectives. The first aspect is that it is a matter of, I must say, what is the acute intervention of the Government or of politics or of authority in an autonomous decision by one of the academic institutions. As it is said, given that there is complete agreement for the appointment of a director of a research institution, it is a little strange that the Government does not agree with this, and of course we can understand that the decision for this particular political nature, or the basis for such a decision to disagree with certain criticisms that someone from the very place of this institution, is said to be an institution dealing with the research of pedagogical science, pedagogy, directed to the roof or competent ministry, if you want, regarding the management of the school system at the time of the epidemic. For this reason, I believe that it is justified for the National Assembly to hold a debate on this subject, because this may be a dangerous precedent, so that in future such or other appointments can be carried out only on the basis of some kind of likeness or consistency with the beliefs of any authority, but not on the basis of arguments, scientific achievements and, in particular, professional questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Marko Bandelli will ask Health Minister Tomaž Gantar a question. The minister's gone. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you, Chairman. I'm still going to ask the question for our viewers. First of all, I regret his absence here today. Too bad, given that the epidemic was declared, I think he should be here and say more. Dear Minister Gantar, over the last period we have been following up on the controversy over the number of tests carried out on infection with the new coronavirus, in particular in the light of poor communication, doubts about the reliability of tests and incorrect data on the number of people infected by the individual municipalities. In addition to this, I am interested in information on errors in the reporting of test results; the gap between the number of infected persons recorded on Slovenian portals and the data reported abroad; data on the number of tests carried out, according to each municipality. But above all, I want to know: How is it possible that we had 50, 60 infected a day in March and there was chaos and panic, today we have almost a thousand per day, and your experts, of course, state that they control the situation? There's nothing clear to many people anymore. Please give me your answers in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ambassador Janja Slug will ask the Minister of Culture Dr Vask Simoniti a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have already, in fact, addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a single initiative that is actually substantively the same in this matter that I will ask you. This is an extremely important issue for the film sector in Slovenia, as it is evident from government materials that there are two documents of different dates and, in part, the different contents called the Proposal for the inclusion of ten projects and the Proposal for the inclusion of twenty-one projects in the current development programme plan 2020-2023, of which a total of 30 million is proposed projects for co-financing of around EUR 3.1 million. Given that the Republic of Slovenia has been in debt to domestic film productions for months on the basis of existing contracts, this is said to be mainly for projects for which contracts have already been signed, some projects have already been recorded in 2019, of course it is indisputable that the situation has become so acute that some of the affected and, I hope, even the injured are barely living properly. The State Secretary, Dr Ignacija Friedl Jarc, pointed out at the consideration of the amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 and 2022 on the Parliamentary Committee on Culture that you need a legal basis for the payments of the said treaties. You, Mr. Minister, said on Friday, October 9th on the third channel of national television in an interview that you were the ones who forwarded the said works to the General Secretariat of the Government. After all this, of course, I'm asking you: Why not approach the establishment of an appropriate legal basis if, of course, it holds the information provided by the Secretary of State on the home working body, so if there is no legal basis, why not approach its design? Why not make sure, in my opinion, what is your task, duty and responsibility, that the materials from your department, which you forward to the Government, are also dealt with in the Government and, if possible, accepted if these are valid obligations? And why not just in this, and in other areas of your department, do you avoid fulfilling the Ministry's obligations, that is, in fact, the country to cultural creators, which we all know and can monitor, that it has serious consequences for these people and their families if I leave cultural creativity as purely on the side?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you very much. So what the Member has found to be two documents, one that bypasses 10 film projects and one 21 film projects, at the outset, would say about the legal basis that, of course, until this year, it has been normal for the Slovenian Film Centre to forward these plans of development programmes in one piece, and it is in this regard and with all the procedures that relate to this, there has been an appropriate realization of this. By last year, for all films and projects, one project was, of course, one, while, this year 2020, the Slovenian Film Centre, in accordance with Ministry of Finance's instructions, had, of course, to send a development programme plan so that it actually had to present each film individually, so it included individual films. This was either the reason or the reason, of course, according to the Ministry of Finance, that it was of course the high values of individual film. And in view of this, there were, of course, certain backlogs or stops or, as you might say, certain problems. As a result of all these changes, government material has been developed in several tranches, and the Ministry of Culture has signed a plan of development programmes at the beginning of the year, or if we are precise, it was written off on 3 March 2020, while all the years earlier it was signed in early January, now signed on 3 March, I do not know why, under the previous government. We received this, and on 1 April we submitted an application for project classification to the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance received this role, we received the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on 5 May and this was the first tranche of 10 films. And then we received a second tranche for 21 films for 2020-2023 and submitted it to the Ministry of Finance on 21 July and received an opinion in early August. We then forwarded this material to the General Secretariat of the Government at the end of August, where the matter had actually stopped. We have then again asked for this in early October, and we are actually waiting for the result. This is a short road that concerns the fate of this film field. Once again, I'd say there have been some new changes in this arc of time. A new change took place in 2020 under the previous minister, who apparently felt that he must go on this path to the government and in several pieces and in the definition of each film individually. That's why I think there's been some backlog. As I said, on October 9th, we sent this back to the General Secretariat of the Government to put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you for that short oris. But it does not really seem problematic to me if such a directive of the Ministry of Finance has been given to the matter in several tranches, this is absolutely not disputed. I ask you, for the first time, about the Secretary of State saying that no legal basis has been created, that is, if that is true, or whether that is true and why you should not approach the creation of this legal basis. I also want to know: Is there in fact now information that the matter will be dealt with? Why has it not yet been, and why are you, as the responsible minister, of course responsible, more active in this regard, to actually ensure that the government's consideration of the government comes, that the material you've provided is considered, and that it takes a position or opinion? It seems to me that this is your task and responsibility as Minister of Culture. We all know that there are families back here, there are people, there's a struggle for survival.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, please, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Nice of you to remind me of my duties as Minister. I think I have done my duty as it is necessary and in accordance with my powers. Of course, I'm not avoiding my duties. That people, families, I don't doubt, that's a lot of things. I think it is important that film production, with social problems, must surely be sensitive, no doubt, nor should we use these things in one direction or another, it seems a little inappropriate to me, these fates are huge, no doubt, but I have done my duty in this regard carefully and also precisely, so that I cannot add more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Ambassador Dusan Šisko will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojsa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u110	Dear Minister, all present! Robbery and burglary are unfortunately a regular and frequent component of daily or weekly police reports throughout Slovenia. I am aware that Slovenian police are doing their best, but some signs show that more should be done in individual areas of the country to prevent such acts. I was approached by frightened citizens from two municipalities, from Kostanjevice, Krka and Šentjerne, who, in addition to all the problems caused by the Coronavirus epidemic, face a real epidemic of crime. In the last two months, the looting and looting of residential houses, which have not been remembered in these places since the 16th century when the Uskiks of the Gorjans were stolen and looted. Most of the robberies are in the elderly, when they're not in the house for at least half an hour, then they take their gold and their money. Interestingly, it happens in the middle of settlements, most often when it gets dark and later, but also on a white day when people are not home for a short time. From this, citizens themselves have concluded that these are well-organised criminal groups that have assistance in the field or who have previously observed the sites and then attacked them. When citizens turn to the police, he kindly explains to them that the perpetrators almost leave no trace and that the police are not enough to stop them. And indeed, a few days from now, a new robbery is coming. As a result, people are increasingly afraid. They put their savings on security systems, they light their lights at night, and they walk around their own houses and neighbors. They wonder if anyone can help them. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Are you familiar with the increase in the number of robberies in Dolenjska? Are you familiar with the problems of police handling these problems, and what will you do to prevent this from happening?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member! Maybe to start a little bit of statistics. In 2020, as compared to 2019, a slight decline in crime rates across the country shows. If there were 42 thousand 700 in the period between 1 and 10 last year, there were about a thousand fewer in this year. Of course, this issue is large and, of course, it cannot possibly justify everything or explain everything that is going on. It is essential that 65% of these crimes fall away from the so-called thefts, large thefts, robberies and certain other crimes, which, of course, constitute the most property crimes, or those of which you, the honourable Member, have spoken. In this year, we have also made thorough statistics on these two areas on the basis of your question. And I must say that in the Municipality of Šentjernej it is up to 15. This year, compared to last year's period, there were slightly fewer thefts. We're talking about relatively small numbers, so compared to last year's 19, there were 21 last year. But there was more to it than that, we're talking about bigger numbers, bigger thefts. If there were 22 in last year, there were 33 crimes this year. In total, it was at about last year’s level in this municipality. The same is true in the Municipality of Kostanjevica, Krka, where, according to the annual period, there was an increase in crime by about 10%, and thefts were also on the rise. If there were these robberies in last year's year, there were 11 of them this year. It should be pointed out that both municipalities, namely Kostanjevica ob Krka and Šentjerně, are relatively small in the region between those municipalities where this identification of criminal offences in previous years, which means that people have lived relatively safe there and, of course, every such matter as you say is, as you described, a major problem for the population, or it is all the more pronounced. In all these proceedings - I myself have requested a thorough report on the cases of this so-called criminal group, which is apparently confusing in these places - to these criminals. It is true, however, that we do not describe or announce this because of the very process of tracking these people. What you're saying is that the police tell people that they're too small, that they don't have enough teams and the like, of course, I think it's just a convenient excuse, not a fact. All police stations in this area are in fact staffed or occupied with personnel exactly the same as the rest of Slovenia, it is said that there is no shortage of personnel, it is a shortage of personnel throughout the police force, not just in these individual police stations. So these criticisms, if they have already been made by the police, as Minister, I cannot take over and, of course, I will be properly upset that such excuses will not appear in the future. Of course, I must say that the special area of the Police Administration of Novo Mesto is quite burdened by criminality related to members, of course there is not much to talk about, some other ethnic communities. We are talking about the settlements of other ethnic communities, which are quite widespread in this area and it is clear, of course, that the police are also trying, or are making great progress, to restrict criminal associations in the whole area. As far as the protection of the inhabitants is concerned, I must say that the police are also trying to raise awareness by preventive actions, to the extent that they themselves are doing the utmost to ensure the safety of their assets.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you, Minister. In part, I agree, I tell you, in part, no, I can also tell you in four eyes why. But I understand that there are dozens of robberies in Slovenia and that many cannot be prevented, even less so that they are completely eliminated. But something is very wrong, you know, very wrong, if seven robberies happen in a half-second month, and there are more of them after telling the locals, but they don't even hope to report them. The defendants received such answers from the police, and you may be surprised: “You were on the turn, your gold is melted, we can’t do anything because we are not enough.” Apparently, attacks occur most often when police officers take their vehicles to the Gorjani to hunt migrants. Think about what I just told you. Therefore, on this occasion, I would like to invite everyone in this assembly, especially those smart-ass people who do not allow our police to help keep the border. While you ladies and gentlemen are walking around Ljubljana, our citizens in Dolenjska and Posavje suffer terror from organised criminal groups and live in constant fear. Minister, I am aware that because of the situation with the coronavirus, the police are even more burdened, but I expect you to take real action. I hope that people will not have to organize village guards, as the Downland farmers did in the 16th and 17th centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u116	Dear Member, of course, in this part, which you have somehow said in the second part, I must fully attach it to you. As you know, I have been advocating for a long time that the police could at least help control the state border of the military on these border strips. Of course, I also have to say that if these statements you're making, what the police are saying are real, they're actually unacceptable. I have to say here, of course, that I'm going to check things out. What the police are telling someone, whether it's your turn or whether your gold is flooded or something like that, it's unacceptable for the police. The police are not there to teach people about their turn, but mainly to act. However, I have to say that I myself have received reverse information, not from this end, but from Krske, but from Brežice, where the mayors have informed me that some directors, especially directors or managers of malls, have somehow issued some guidelines to stop reporting thefts that are, I think, up to 30 or something like that. But this is totally unacceptable to me because it means that those who do it are usually, as we know, some other ethnic groups, still get wings. This is unacceptable to me, and I have already appealed to all mayors to give the competent directors guidance that, even if it is 10 or 30 euros, they should apply, because the police must process everything, that is, these minor thefts in essence. Maybe that's it. As you know, with a set of measures taken by the Government to relieve part of these police officers at the southern border, the Government has also provided considerable resources to the border municipalities, in this case of course also to those municipalities bordering the state border, also to enable mayors with their own investments to essentially improve infrastructure, including in terms of public education or the organisation of certain routes, so that either monitoring the potential migration crossings is better either to ensure public order and peace in the individual community.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ambassador Tina Heferle will question the Minister of Public Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. A nice welcome to the Minister! My question touches on the subject that I believe the wider Slovenian public already knows. Finally, at the time of our government, we have devoted a great deal of attention to the very important issue, which is the change in electoral legislation. We know that, in 2018, the Constitutional Court decided that electoral legislation was inconsistent with the Constitution and imposed a two-year deadline on the National Assembly to abolish this unconstitutionality. The fact is that we are running out of time, we are running out of time very quickly, which is only until the end of December. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested: What stage is the preparation of the legislative amendment? Are you doing anything on this change, what are you doing on this change, where the process is? What is your view of change in content? I ask now, but we are talking about the change in election thefts, we are talking about the change that we have been trying to make, the preferential voice and so on. I believe that at this time in which we are, while the coronation is really restricting us in our work, we are all burdened with it, but given that this government is doing other things all the time, from having almost a change of staff on the agenda to preparing legislation that directly cuts into some of the fundamental democratic norms that we have, I believe, and I hope that a change of electoral legislation is also being prepared. So once again, my question: What stage are you at the Ministry? Since you had a very successful predecessor, at least in my opinion, former Minister Bear has prepared the field nicely, I wonder: Or did you take advantage of that? In short, I'm asking for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you. In any case, let me first point out that I am aware that my predecessor, my colleague, Medved, has made a great deal of efforts to resolve this problem, namely to eliminate unconstitutionalism. The fact that this has not been successful also points to the great complexity of the area. As you know, we at the Ministry of Public Administration, as soon as Parliament has unfortunately rejected the solution to the abolition of electoral districts following the introduction of a priority vote, that is to say, sufficient political support was not received at that time; it has immediately joined in the preparation of further professional materials, this time with the aim of reshaping the electoral districts and thus implementing the Constitutional Court's decision. Coordination at both the professional and political levels has been taking place for quite some time, due to the fact that you have indicated yourself, a large number of different political interests require a great deal of effort and a little longer than anticipated. Member groups were invited to present a special application at the end of the previous year and in June of this year. It was prepared at the Ministry to ensure sufficient transparency in the current state of the electoral districts and the possibility of reshaping them. These presentations were essentially a workshop where we allowed representatives of the parliamentary groups, all those interested, to gain this ability to use the application and to somehow adapt or seek the optimum deployment of the electoral districts. The Ministry also provides technical support to allow parliamentary groups to harmonise their visions of the borders of the electoral districts themselves into a special application. There are already three professional proposals in this application, three different, depending on the possible deviations in the size of the electoral districts. We certainly want to meet the Constitutional Court's decision at the Ministry with this proposal. The deadline, as you said, is very close, this is December 21st this year. In addition to the size or criterion of the number of inhabitants within the constituency, not within Slovenia, we want to take into account geographical and cultural diversity and to the greatest extent also the principle of maintaining the integrity of the territory of the municipality within the same district, which is largely not possible in the municipalities. An agreement has also been adopted, as you know, that the amendment of electoral legislation is being tabled as a Member law and the Ministry offers and will continue to provide technical support to Members in setting borders. I am aware that a great deal of effort will be required to bring the Group of Members into line. And here I emphasize, not only do they harmonise each other, but also on the inside, and then on and on. However, I am sure that, with the technical assistance of the Ministry, as we say, we are available for the preparation of proposals and we are already making various proposals ourselves, I am sure that this will work for the parliamentary groups. There's not much time, but there's enough time. But it's weeks, and I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I agree, yes, time is not enough. And it is true that you have invited the parliamentary groups to participate, and I admit it, but it is true that you would expect a small number of activities from the ministry, which is the holder of the electoral legislation. If you remember, if you followed when we led this ministry, Mr Medved practically referred to meetings, working groups and so on at monthly level and thus involved all parties in Parliament to participate in the drafting of legislative amendments and at the same time to be aware of what the Ministry is preparing. We certainly agree that electoral legislation is very important and somehow goes beyond this party policy, it is some kind of state-of-the-art legislation. Therefore, in our view, yes, it would be a Member law, but the ministry must be more than just an aid machine for Members. Members, I hope we agree here, we're not going to draw any robberies. If you have accepted this option as the only solution, we probably agree that it will be very difficult to harmonise 90 Members in the drawing of the thefts. So I'd expect you to play a leading role here. And the third thing is, I'm not running out of time. Somehow I was informed that this law was already being prepared in some final form of regulation. I want to know: When will the Members be able to see him, as well as the opposition Members? I hope, indeed, that according to the procedures by which this government adopts laws, this will not be in the anti-korona package six after the urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you. I appreciate the humor, and in this spirit I will answer you in no way. Now, specifically. More activity - as I said, I am aware of all the activities my predecessor has done in this direction. Two expert suggestions were prepared earlier, but you saw what fate they had. I kind of stuck with the idea of first harmonising the matter professionally, there was a consultation in the premises of the State Council, where we came up with some very, I would say, fundamental findings that were previously neglected. For example, it is necessary to compare the derogations within an individual constituency and not between the largest and smallest constituencies at the level of the whole of Slovenia, so that we have equivalent criteria of geographical and cultural, historical rounding, that it is not only the number of voters or even more important, that the number of inhabitants is important, as this is a rule of law. So a few things in this brief like yourself, I thank you for that, mentioned, in this short time with the crown marked, we still managed to do what had been forgotten before. The fact is that a political consensus will be needed in the end. What you're saying is that you have unofficial information that the marriage text is ready is not to be hidden at all, because the marriage text has been prepared for months, but the key thing of this law is technique, but the key thing is how the constituencies will be drawn. This is where they will crash or the three spears of Members with their interests. I believe that, in the end, we will all come from the fact that this is a national theme, including the SMC, you know that it was basically and still advocates the introduction of a relative priority vote, and it is in the spirit of state-of-the-art that we have decided to approach resolution in a way that is more likely to succeed in Parliament because it will be accepted by Members. The legal text, as it were, is ready. What it is, the drawing of borders, the thefts, we run parallel. We are preparing several proposals. Everything that individual parliamentary groups propose to us as solutions, we also resolve, which requires enormous effort and expertise of employees at the Ministry of Public Administration. I agree, however, that in the end one proposal will have to be adopted in Parliament. However, we have estimated that it is more likely to succeed if we work in parallel and anticipate the possibility that any of these will not succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much. This topic, the change in electoral legislation, is really very important because it's kind of breathing down our collar. I hope that we are all aware of the consequences if the constitutional decision is not implemented in a timely manner and early elections take place at that time. In this situation, probably none of us want to be. However, I agree with you, Mr Minister, what you have just said is that the edges must be painted on a new basis, on the basis of all the professional parameters. The Constitutional Court has highlighted the number of inhabitants, geographical roundness and the highest possible integrity of the municipalities, and I am surprised that you, as a ministry, are on the one hand a political body, but you have some apparatus in the background that is professional, that you do not take this leading role more strikingly, that you leave this drawing to Members because we know that there could be 90 different variants. Finally, the decision will have to be made. I believe, as the ministry under the previous government finally drafted the bill, of course, it was tabled by Members, but the ministry is the one that, with all this apparatus, I have already said, prepares the version and clears the borders, so that here, however, my appeal or the desire for you to step forward and somehow make a final proposal and submit it to this house as soon as possible, because we are running out of time. If you return to the emergency procedure or to the swift, we will again reduce the possibility of a debate, and we will reduce the possibility of involving the opposition. So I don't see any added value here if you're waiting. The regular session is still November, but it's already recognized in December. Maybe there's a hurry in here. In view of the fact that I do not believe, I honestly do not believe that the amendment of electoral legislation will go through on a regular basis, it is my procedural proposal that a general debate be held on this subject and that perhaps this broader dialogue is ensured if we have an urgent procedure or a reduced procedure. My procedural proposal is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to hold a general debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Aleksander Reberšek will ask the Ministry of the Environment and the Mag space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, you are probably aware of many of the problems in the third development axis project, such as the insurmountable construction and technical problems caused by unstable terrain in the mining area in Velenje South-Gaberka section; the difficulty in obtaining construction documentation due to many of the actions filed as a result of errors and inconsistencies in pre-planning and placement; the insecure financing of this extremely high investment, taking into account the limitations on indebtedness and insufficient resources of Darsa; the opposition to the F22 route by local communities and civil initiatives. This means that the planned start and construction time is completely uncertain. Allow me to inform you and the National Assembly of some facts that should convince all of us that the project at this point is not only possible but urgently necessary to change. Evidence of the traffic inappropriateness of the route with the connection to Šentrupert is given in many professional bases. The route was chosen on the basis of political pressures and not arguments. Practically all arguments testify to connection in Arja village. The analysis of traffic trends and the volume of traffic shows that most traffic from Velenje is gravitating eastward, it is against Celje. A future highway with the Šentrupert connection after existing studies does not burden Arja Vas-Velje, as traffic would decrease by only 6%. All the references are from the professional bases that Dars ordered and were well known to the government of Mira Cerar and the ministers of the then government. On the contrary, in 2018, the government adopted a VAT regulation on the F22 route with the addition of Šentrupert from populist and pre-electional movements. Dear Minister: Do you think it's normal to have 28 infrastructure facilities, 6 tunnels, and 11 double viaducts on a 13km route? Why do we allow a mile of this fast road to cost 57 million miles on the fact that we built an average mile of highway, not a fast road, for 9 million miles? Mr. Minister, you have so much experience and are a credible man, help me and the inhabitants of the Lower Savinja Valley to place the route with connection in Arja village or in the Podlad. I also have a document from the Cabinet of the Prime Minister dated 26. 6. 2020, where it states that the Government has also set itself an important part of the third development axis, including the connection to the Arja village connection. Dear Minister, please trust me: What is the reason why you do not start placing the third development axis with connection in Arja village, but if we both know that this route, which is faster, significantly cheaper, environmentally acceptable, and especially for Koroša, is faster built? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Dear Member! I note that this question is addressed to the wrong minister. Point one, by the way, the third development of axles is divided into four sections and the state spatial plans have already been adopted on two sections. Among them is Section One, which is Šentrupert-Velje. This was adopted by the State Spatial Plan in 2017. By adopting this Regulation on the State Spatial Plan, the cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment and the Space in the role of the PRSP has ended and this Regulation has adopted an integral part of the Slovenian acquis as it is a regulation. The Ministry of Environment and Space manages infrastructure projects at the initiative of the initiators, this is in this case the Ministry of Infrastructure. If the Ministry of Infrastructure considers it necessary to amend or otherwise cut into this current State Spatial Plan, it must address this initiative, as provided for by law, to the Ministry of Environment and Space. We have not yet accepted this initiative. On the contrary, the Government has repeatedly considered and justified why this is not appropriate at this stage. So I ask you to address the questions to the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is, in fact, substantively responsible for the implementation of State spatial plans for infrastructure facilities, and the Ministry of Environment and Space is taking the procedure in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Member, please, you have the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I agree that the Ministry of Infrastructure is dealing with the construction itself, which our Minister will of course build. But the question was, are you going to put her in? This route is your responsibility, Minister Visjak. I only ask you as a member of the Lower Savinja Valley, if we can start by placing the route in Arja village or perhaps also in the Podlad. Both routes are significantly cheaper, they will be more quickly built, and above all they will reach the fast road. I'm also trying to think with a healthy farmer who tells me it's unnecessary to throw 57 million dollars out the window for a mile of fast road if we can build this fast road for less than 9 million miles. There are six mayors in the Lower Savina Valley; there are seven mayors in the Upper Savinja Valley, which is said to 13 mayors of Savinja Valley have five to ten musical or infrastructure desires, and the money for this is not because we build expensive. That's why I'm asking you, Your Honor, if you can start putting the route into the Arja village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u134	Dear Member, we cannot begin a change in placement at the Ministry of the Environment if we do not get the initiative of the Minister of the Interior, which is the Minister of Infrastructure. We cannot comply with the Slovenian legal order. Therefore, if there are these substantive reasons that you are stating, convince the Minister of Infrastructure to take these initiatives at the latest by the very beginning of the procedure or the conclusion of the regulation procedure, since the Ministry of Environment and Space is conducting procedures for placing them in the premises of the competent ministries. In this case, this is the Ministry of Infrastructure. However, documentation relevant to decisions such as a study of variants, such as the State Spatial Plan, together with the environmental report, is prepared by the competent institutes, not by the Ministry of Environment and Space. This is done in the specific case of Dars, which is also under the interference or substantive interference of the Ministry of Infrastructure. So please address the questions to the competent ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister for Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! For a long time, film makers have been pointing to the country's machete attitude towards Slovenian film, even though they have been recognized and rewarded in the international space. We are witnessing a procedural stalemate in the financing of Slovenian film production. The ministries, the Government and its departments or committees are carrying out the sector's rest, consciously as they have been alerted to the alarming situation in recent months by official channels and public performances by representatives of the film sector. However, the contribution to such a relationship is certainly also that film projects are seen as investments to be included in the development programme plan and prepared in advance by the so-called DIIP, or a document to identify the investment project. In this regard, you, Minister Mag. Spread out, I'm asking: For what reasons have film projects been included in the NRPs, development plans? Is it not just an additional bureaucratic measure that could be removed without prejudice to the state budget in favour of Slovenian film makers? What measures will be taken in that area to accelerate, debirocratise the procedures to which Slovenian film production is subject? Minister Mag. I thank the broad already in advance for his answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you very much, honourable Member, only Bevk, for your question. Here, of course, we must say that I can answer this question in different ways. The first is certainly the legal way, by this legal way, we are talking about the Public Finance Act, which provides that the four-year development programme plan also shows expenditure of the budget, including other resources for full implementation, both investment and state aid. So the legal basis is the Public Finance Act. There should be no problem from this point of view. Secondly, I can also respond from a point of view of transparency. Members often demand that the state budget is as transparent as possible, and, of course, in such a way that film projects are included in development plans, we improve the transparency of public finances, we know how this money is spent, we know what projects are being used for. From this point of view, this answer is justified. Third answer or sub-response from the point of view of State aid. Under European legislation, such projects are classified under the so-called state aid, which is state aid. We are, of course, talking about State aid granted. The creation of film production is also an economic activity according to the European classification. And since this is an economic activity, this activity is subject to state aid rules. In the area of culture, such solutions apply to all Europe and this co-financing must not exceed 80% of the total budget of this production in Europe. In this regard, we are talking about state aid. Also from this point of view, the project is, of course, made in accordance with European legislation. Finally, even with State aid, we have several types of State aid. One of these is the so-called de minimis, up to EUR 200 000, and this state aid is also used in film production especially when a public announcement is to be made and, of course, also the presentation of a particular film. From this point of view, this type of film classification is justified in the plans of the development programmes. And believe me, regardless of whether we could be classified in any other way, even though I have now answered why so, and here we have the legal-individual whole European foundation, probably the money for it would not be any more. Finally, the whole matter takes place within the budget and, of course, also within the budget of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much also to the Minister for the answers to the questions raised. It is true that the previous government has introduced the need for film projects to be included in the NRP. I don't think this thing is any good for a year before it wasn't necessary. Since your government is, of course, advocating the de-de-irocraticisation of procedures, I would suggest that you reconsider whether this is necessary or not. It is also important to know that from November 2019 to today, more than 11 months have gone by without the means to survive most of those who have participated and have already done more work on 31 film projects. So there's been a suspension of payment. From March to August this year, the Ministry of Culture proposed to the Government three requests for funding totalling €3.2 million. One was realized, and two are still waiting on the Committee on Public Arrangements and Public Affairs to send them to the Government and have not yet been considered. So I'm wondering: Does the Ministry of Finance also block the inclusion of material for film projects at the government's meeting and why? When is the government committee planning to turn on the green light for these projects? Can you speed up or debirocratize the procedure as Minister of Finance on this matter? Thank you so much for answering that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, please, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much. To me, precise information about these blockades or non-blocks and so on is heard, I also get a letter and so on, but here is responsible for this department. [[…]] However, from the perspective of public finances, I can say that in order to promote film production, I have annual data here, I do not know exactly what films are going on and so on, in 2019 4 million 964 thousand 996.25 euros were paid, in 2018 3 million 954 thousand 991 euros and in 2017 4 million 41 000 and 14 euros. That's what was paid to promote film production. Then it was also paid for the co-financing of audiovisual media projects and the development of technical infrastructure between 2.5 million and 2 million 999 000, in terms of this period 2017-2019, for publishing activities close to 4 million each year. Total for culture in these areas in 2017 10 million 336 thousand, in 2018 10 million 988 thousand and in 2019 12 million 760 thousand 234. I'm talking here about the annual data, I don't have annual data for this year because the year is still running. In other words, it is necessary to say that the State or Government, through the budget, also through the National Assembly, allocates funds for culture and for the promotion of culture and for film activity. On the other hand, certain producers are also financed by using their services, for example via Viba film, and this is then reported to the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance. Finally, it is direct funding, as I have already mentioned and financing through de minimis. I can serve with the data itself, whether it's big or not, of course, it's a matter for anyone to judge. The other is, of course, what is financed. This is done by the Ministry of Culture and not by the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Ambassador Violeta Tomic will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. It's a nice greeting for everyone! I think it's clear to us all that violence against women and all the weak have been getting worse lately. The fundamental element of criminal law is the silobar by which the victim can defend or defend his constitutional right to physical and mental inviolability. On the Police website, the recommendations on how to deal with attacks state that in the event of physical or sexual assault, we should use all possible means to deter the attacker. In the section Safety of girls and women The police on the website offer the following advice: »Consider your decision to deter the attack on us thoroughly. For self-defense, you can carry an electric paralyzer or a gas dispenser with you, and you can join the self-defense course when you are younger. You always have the right to say no to any unwanted sexual contact. If you say no, do not give a double answer. If a man is violent, be determined to resist physically. Active resistance by the use of hand objects (scissors, nail saws) and other self-defense items (gas sprayer) is in most cases very effective to deter an attack. [[…]] It is also advisable to shout out loud. If you experience sexual violence, call the police immediately.” Well, these police advices for the safety of girls and wives are very lifeless and are full of some sexual prejudice. How, and who, at the time of his attack, would have the time to think carefully? You must be acting instinctively. Or then think about why I didn't go to self-defense class. The recommendation on decisive physical rebellion and loud shouting is equally controversial and indicates a lack of knowledge of matter, for the victim of sexual assault is known to have a so-called peritramatic reaction when the victim freezes, remains paralysed and unable to speak, or even scream. In short, the way the police in the official communication frame sexual violence or the relationship between the victim and the perpetrator of the crime is unacceptable. I therefore ask you in this regard: Do police workers receive any education and training to work in this area to raise sensitivity and identify specific issues of sexual violence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u146	Dear Vice-President, honourable Member. Thank you very much for this very appropriate question. I must say, in fact, the answer to your question has already been somehow followed in the sense that you find these recommendations, which are currently published on the police's websites, inappropriate or lifeless. I must say that these issues are being prepared in a circle of experts, both police officers, who are, of course, experts in police powers or real situations, which police officers know to a great extent, as well as psychologists and all the other experts who are or have been faced with the issue. Of course, I can agree with you that at the moment a woman is attacked, she certainly doesn't go to read these recommendations, because it's really nonsense. It is, however, the fact that these recommendations are written, or somehow, in the police, that we read them when we are not yet directly threatened. Even as we prepare for a longer vacation, we can somehow read how to protect our facility. We know those actions or the awareness of the police, including the media, which somehow act preventively. I am aware that these are one of the most terrible or most vile crimes that may be in our society, perhaps equivalent to what is happening with violence against children or violence over the Internet against children or women, so we will take all your proposals seriously, review them and, if necessary, supplement these instructions, as you say, non-life recommendations. I must say that the police are especially at this time, so at the time of the coronary crisis, when it was actually to be expected that there would be greater proximity or a time when people were more together, either partners or children, as a result also perhaps greater tension among themselves than the greater presence of one and the other on the Internet. This, of course, meant the greater burden on children on the Internet, which means greater risk or greater exposure to the risks that children or adolescents have when browsing websites, as well as, of course, that at a time when people were more together, there may also have been some inconsistencies that could have resulted in some kind of violence or other. I must say that at least in the first part, so in that part of the months of March, April, it was also statistically found that some drastic increase in domestic violence was not detected. So here statistics spoke a little differently than our expectations. However, it is true, at least after some data, that there was a higher number of divorces during or after this period. As far as the police's website is concerned, that is, updating this data, I must say, the police have been since 21. 3. 2020, i.e. at this very time, published together 19 different specifically structured or newly-made preventive messages that specifically pointed out domestic violence, violence against women and violence against children, sexual abuse and so on. I will not list all of these, maybe just a few addresses: In some families these days there are relationships to a great trial, followed by content; Quarantine will pass, photos and data on the Internet will remain for ever – tips for safe work; Call to Neighbors: Report violence in the family, the victim may not be able; some children at home do not find safe shelter. Let's help them; in the days of increased internet usage, don't forget your safety – what goes up, don't go down again quickly, I'm talking about the Internet. And a few other addresses I could read [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u148	Thank you. You didn't answer me, Minister, by reading and quoting this. In fact, why am I asking you? Many testimonies say that police often conceal, act unprofessionally, and in the spirit of sexual stereotypes and prejudices of victims instead of supporting them and protecting them, further criminalize them. It's totally unacceptable to treat a victim where they tell her what you thought would happen to you if you had such a short skirt or to ask her how much she drank. These things are irrelevant, and this is how the attackers are protected, not the victims. That's why I'm interested, really, and once again, I'm asking you: Can you assure me that the police are correct in carrying out regular education in this area, that the police know how, you mentioned earlier psychologists, how to deal with the victim of sexual assault and not with the position of male police officer and sexist once again on the scene, psychologically, because then, we know, the judicial system is also doing its job? So I'm wondering: What exactly do you do and what do you plan to do in this area to improve police work and procedures? What training for the work of the police have you done so far, and how often do you do it? Are you working with competent experts against violence against women and non-governmental organizations and with which? Who's doing this education, I want to know. I also want to know: In your opinion, what assistance should the police provide to women victims of sexual violence when reporting and in the police procedure itself? How does the police respond and have appropriate mechanisms to ensure proper treatment of victims of sexual violence? Because we know that sexual assault leaves lasting psychological and physical consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u150	All or most of the education carried out by the Slovenian police is carried out at the Police Academy. There we invite outside associates, specific names at this time I don't know, but I can also get them and send them. I certainly have zero tolerance for such cases as you mentioned. Unfortunately, I have to be honest with you that I cannot assure you that there may never be such a case in the case as you said — that one of the police officers is disproportionately or improperly treating the victim. I'm sure that's what happened. I do not believe that it is – and according to the information I have, it is not – a rule. So there's no way I can buy or rent an indictory claim that all the cops across the street would treat this victim with some, if I understand correctly, mastic attitude, you know, what you're wearing with a short skirt or something. Just the opposite. All police officers are particularly alert to such cases, especially those trained. But it's like I said, but for each one of them, I can't put my hand in the fire. I can assure you that, in the context of what is already being done at the Police Academy, and in the context that, after all, there are more and more women within the new generations of the police, that women's interest in police work will also be increased, proportionately or appropriately, if I say so, a woman's component, and that there will certainly be no such type, under the terms of, of course, “abuse” or inappropriate treatment of those who are victims, that is to say, women or children.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you for your assurance. You know that police officers are individuals who have their own moral code, so they really need to give them very clear instructions on how to treat victims. I'm not generalizing that they're all the same, that we understand each other, but that didn't happen, that's what's happening. I'm not asking you because I'd know about one case, but because I know too many cases. That's why it's imperative that you act, and I'm putting that on your heart. Offences against sexual inviolability are criminal acts of physical and sexual violence that represent one of the worst interventions in the integrity and dignity of man. Believe me, I know a lot of women who would rather be beaten or worse than what happened to them. In short, the consequences for all victims are extremely severe, recovery is long lasting, many remain marked for life and have problems with relationships with the environment, work, family and so on. In short, the key to protecting the victim immediately after the report is police conduct, since the police officer is the first to arrive at the scene when the victim is very shaken. And then he really needs the greatest measure of professionalism, understanding and sense of security, after all. For a woman who has been abused, beaten, truly needs comfort, not even further hearings and such hearings. Therefore, it is essential — and I ask you to really warn the police here — that education is in this direction to ensure proper and professional treatment of victims of sexual violence. But if there's any more understanding besides this proper treatment, it'll be even more beautiful. I wish we could discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October, in the framework of the votes. Mr Ivan Hršak will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to John Cigler the King and the Minister for Finance mags. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honorable ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The ageing population is now one of the greatest social and economic challenges worldwide, with Slovenia in the European space in a more unfavourable position than other countries. We have generally adapted to population ageing through pension reforms. These not only exacerbated the pension conditions but also reduced the wage-retirement situation. It is inevitable that the economic standard must be maintained at least roughly in the autumn of life, as the cost of living generally remains at the same level if they are not even higher due to the health reasons they bring with them for years. To this end, the third pillar of saving for old age has been established. The purpose of voluntary supplementary pension insurance is to save an employee for an additional pension in his/her active working life. With some combination between public and private pensions, an individual should save the necessary resources to enable him to grow older. At the end of the insurance, an individual included in the third pillar has the option of raising savings once and may also choose to pay. My question relates to the taxation of the benefits which the insured person receives from this title. The amount of the tax or resulting loss of the capital invested as a result of the tax depends on whether it is a single increase of funds, where the tax base for the income tax includes the total payment of the purchase value and the pension method for the payment of the savings is taxed at 50 % of the income. The tax rate for both is 95 %. It is understandable that the less favourable tax treatment of redemption payments in the single amount is intended to discourage single payment and to encourage payment in the form of a pension pension, since the purpose of voluntary pension insurance is to ensure the social and material security of the individual for a certain period of time after retirement. However, it is not a stimulating rate of taxation, since the loss of savings in own resources is, according to my assessment, too high. That's why I'm interested in: Will the state's attitude towards this way of deciding citizens and citizens who want or are forced to take care of a decent age change towards greater promotion of voluntary supplementary pension insurance? Are there any positive changes planned for insurers in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you very much. First he gets the word Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Member Hršak, thank you for this question, which concerns a part of the pension system, which we tend to pay little attention to, but is still quite up to date. The voluntary supplementary pension insurance is a fundamental form of savings for the age of Slovenia, which the country encourages with tax reliefs. It represents, as you yourself have stated, the collection of cash in the personal accounts of insured persons involved in this form of insurance in order to ensure, at the time of retirement or the completion of a certain age, the right to an additional pension. This is very important and is a purposeful saving in personal savings accounts with a view to ensuring a higher or appropriate, decent standard, i.e. higher pensions upon retirement in compulsory pension and disability insurance. This insurance is promoted by the State during the period of saving with tax benefits for employers and for individuals who individually pay for supplementary pensions and also during the period of payment of supplementary pensions, since only half of the pension paid is paid. The regulation of the taxation of supplementary pension benefits is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, which will also give a more detailed answer to your question in this part. I believe, however, that the state's current taxation policy has paid out of supplementary pension insurance when additional pensions are promoted, and so far we do not have any major changes in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Even the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member Hršak. In addition to today's talk of changes in demographics, we are talking about the demographic fund, we are talking about the problems Slovenia will face due to population ageing, and this is one of the most topical issues. And more importantly, it's true, as you said, that if someone gets a so-called rent, then the tax is more favourable than if they raise the whole amount in a single amount. Also, because this is a different base, you mentioned it yourself. Here I would ask this question, if you would allow me, to look at it from another point of view, from a point of view of interest in some other forms, not only saving, but also saving money. On the one hand, we have pension savings, which is taxed, as you said, on the other hand, we have deposits where interest is taxed over a thousand euros if someone gets a thousand euros. Here, of course, you have to look at some analogy, but how the interest is taxed. After all, this can also be a competition for this saving. Someone's just gonna take the money to the bank and then have to look at how much it's taxed here. Life insurance for 10 years also needs to be looked at, as this also provides a benefit compared to the so-called pension savings. In view of the overall policy, we need to stimulate pension savings and also tax-adapt or equalise them. As a result, the Coalition Treaty also adopts a decision or plan, whatever the case, a measure which provides that the Ministry of Finance will analyse the entire tax system from a substantive point of view, draw up appropriate solutions and, of course, amend legislation on the basis of these relevant solutions and proposals. So we have this in the coalition programme, and in this context, it is also my job to focus on what I have already said, a real comparative analysis of how different savings systems are taxed, better, different and so forth, all in order for people to think about their age and that they will be able to secure money with pension savings.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We can proceed. Mr Nik Prebil will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister, the other two ministers, colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings! As many months as you could say, the directors of the National Investigation Office. So much, but if I'm exaggerating a little bit, it seems that when we look at this list of names that have been run by the elite authority responsible for investigating the worst forms of crime since the government took over. Mr. Darko Male had to leave first. Despite warnings of his possible illegal release, you chose a new, your own, trusted Igor Lamberger. And this one obviously wasn't placid either. The NPU investigators also conducted house investigations with Minister Počvalšk in connection with the procurement of protective equipment, we know. And although they were only doing their job, their professional work, respected, apparently went too far. And because he didn't protect them, so did he. At the end of July, you found a new, supposed faithful Urosh Leprechaun — and what followed? In less than two weeks at the NPU, you ordered an illegal review of some rebuttal cases, of course those SDS interests, i.e. the party in which you are. Then Leprechaun gave up for personal reasons. I'm guessing he didn't allow himself to be your puppet. I don't know, but maybe it'll be the Graw of Lazarus. We'll see. Minister, I ask you: What conditions do you think the Director of the National Investigation Office should meet when it comes to management experience, work experience, moral integrity and personal integrity? I'm asking you in your opinion, Mr. Hoys. So I want to know how many years of work experience, let's say how many years of leadership this is — three, five, seven? What you are doing at this office is really a failure of the fundamental values of some of the autonomy and independence of the investigative institutions that these should have. The key is this – so I said earlier that maybe Grah Lazareva, we don't know – what we learned today, and I will quote: “Police have to hire Dark Male back to the post of director of the NPU and reimburse him for the costs of the procedure. It has been misapplied by an uncriminal resolution procedure, which means that it has been disposed of unlawfully.” Minister, I'm also interested in: What do you think about the improper use of the uncriminal resolution procedure against Dark Male, which means that he was dismissed illegally? Please answer these two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u162	Dear Vice President, honourable Member! The first question is, in fact, pointless to answer, because it makes no sense for me to explain what I think such an NPU director should have, three years, five years, seven years, how much experience and so on. All these things are laid down in the law. So it's not my opinion that I'm discussing what I think, but it's my opinion or my obligation to comply with the law. The law states exactly what the conditions are for this job to be occupied. Article 49 of the Police Organization and Work Act provides that the Director of the National Investigation Office shall be appointed and dismissed by the Director-General of the Police. So the Minister does not have any powers in this regard. All the powers of appointment and discharge of this Director shall be vested in the Director-General of Police. At the same time, the law makes it clear that the procedure for this appointment or discharge is governed by a law governing the system of public servants on the appointment and discharge of the director of the body in its composition. Until this moment, I have not been informed that anything with this procedure would be wrong. If the court has issued a decision or a decision which you say has returned Mr Male to his old post, it is necessary to see first what it actually says in this court's decision. Therefore, whether the court has now annulled this part, which refers to the manner in which the Civil Servants Act is applied mutatis mutandis in this case. As you know, under the Public Servants Act, it is possible to dismiss the Director of the Directorate or the Authority within one year of the appointment of the new Minister or new government. For a period of one year after such a person, the Director, either the body in the composition or the Directorate, shall be appointed on the basis of a call for tender. We will therefore look at the matter, we will examine it, and only later can we give some relevant answers in this regard. As far as what you've been saying is that someone is obedient or unruly, or something like that, I have to say that all appointments so far, and so in advance, will be done by the Director General of Police. As you know, the replacement of Mr Male was carried out by Mr Anton Travner at the time and the other two appointments were carried out by the Acting Director-General, Andrej Jurič. Whether someone is suitable or not is, as I said, related to the legal conditions clearly defined in the law, whether someone is successful or someone is not successful, but another story. So someone can meet all the legal requirements, and, of course, he has formally qualified to be appointed to a place, whether such a person is capable or incapable, but there is another song. There is no doubt that the NPU has not been very successful in all its years of history under various directors. We can cast sand into each other's eyes, we can politically oppose each other, and the facts suggest that the NPU, that is, the elite group within the police, with elite salaries, with elite leaders, was less successful than usual criminal administrations in specific areas. I've said that many times. I have also said several times about the dissatisfaction with their results so far. And given that a number of proposals have already been made to define more clearly the function or status of the National Investigation Office within the Police Organisation and Work Act, in terms of the amendments to this law that we are planning by the end of this year, we will also approach putting this organisational unit more appropriately into the police itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm glad you don't have an opinion on such an important matter. It's nice or ridiculous, too, that you obviously don't comply with the legislation. Well, let's take a look at this official invitation to tender that was issued in June. Seven years of work experience was required, respected. Seven for the Director of the National Investigation Office. Once again, the secretary has to have at least eight, we all know that. Come in. No management experience was required, not for a year. There was no need to propose any vision of the functioning or development of the NPU or perhaps proposals for some systemic solutions, a way of doing business — nothing. In other words, you know how this works, so the invitation was completely general and unsolicited, so it was adapted for someone. And the next, you know, will be adapted to someone who is yours, but loyal, loyal, noding, grateful, in fact, a pet. What you're doing is really worrying. I don't know. The NPU is to be renamed a national investigative coup, and everything will be resolved. But as for the second job, I'll introduce you to the Secretary-General. The media report that the court has annulled the discharge of Dark Male, and the police will have to hire him back to the post of Director of the NPU and reimburse him for the costs of the trial. The key message to the public is that there was a Ministry under your leadership – you are always addressing the Director-General of Police, and we all know who gives the direction to the Director-General of Police, that is you. It is crucial that legislation has been broken, that the gentleman has been released illegally. You have been warned about this all the time not only by us but also by the media and experts in this field. I am really asking you, when are you and the Director-General of the Police going to stop political recruitment in this body? First of all, I would like to know, Minister, who will be responsible for such unlawful discharge. Who's gonna be cleaning offices at the National Investigation Office? Maybe the Graw of Lazarus? Maybe it's the CEO at the police station. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u166	At this point we have a current and legitimate officer of police duty, we have a current and legally acting director of the National Investigation Office. As I said before, we will be familiar with this judgment or this court decision first. It's hard to comment on something I don't know. I also find it difficult to comment on something that one or the other web portal wrote, of course one of those who have a great interest that nothing happens at the NPU or that everything remains the way it was. So after 10 years of this operation, the most serious crimes are not investigated or investigated. So it's hard to answer here. As for your repeated allegations that something illegal has been done, of course, I cannot agree that the invitation to tender has been illegal. If the invitation to tender was illegal, it would be necessary to draw attention to this already by the Official Council. As you know, all the calls we make or run are prepared by the police, as has already been said, and the call itself is conducted through the Official Council, which is not within the Ministry of the Interior, but within the Ministry of Public Administration. [[…]] So if it were an illegal or inappropriate invitation to tender, of course, I would have warned the Council of Officials, said that such an invitation to tender was wrong or that it needed to be corrected. That wasn't there. I am sure that all the things that have taken place so far in connection with the tenders have been completely legal, legitimate and, of course, perfectly legal. Your statement about this -- you kind of said -- that anyway, I'm ordering the police is a little bit, I'd say, a rough term. Not far back, about a month ago, you accused me in this room of making some sort of a move, if I couldn't direct the police, but now you're telling me something different. So, you're doing everything, just what you should be doing, no. What we would like to hear is, I don't know, but the fact is that the police are clearly in the exclusive hands of the Director of Police and not the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Allow me, however, Madam Vice-President, to make some final and final arguments before I make a procedural proposal. Minister, you're the one who runs the Ministry of the Interior, where both the police and the NPU belong and probably something else. So you are the key person who is ultimately responsible for everything that happens there. And the fact that you say that you are sure — see, you were sure of many things, not least of all about your resignation, but we saw where we came from. I just want such things to stop, to act democratically, professionally in this country, and to let the investigating authorities carry out their tasks as they have been asked to do with their establishment. I believe that there's a lot of things to fix and a lot of things to improve, but that doesn't justify the fact that you're going on a complete human resources tsunami, not just at the NPU, anywhere else. This is likely to be discussed further when more information is known. They're the last ones I told you. I certainly want this national assembly to speak clearly and loudly about this subject, and that once we really stop blinding ourselves, who is responsible for what in this country, and that whoever is responsible takes this responsibility and is responsible for it. Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we hold a general debate on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Primož Siter will ask the Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! We are at the time of the steep rise of covid-19 infections, daily reports of approximately 800 infected. There is also a growing number of tests, which is good news, and the problem arises when a person with a test is confirmed to be positive for covid-19, then they come into the type of information mechanic the infected and the persons with whom he has been in contact, i.e. families, associates, a wider social circle, and the provision of preventive measures to stop the spread of the virus or plague. As a rule, the National Institute of Public Health should, in accordance with the established protocol or plan, measure the extent to which a person has been exposed to others and then inform on this network, but in practice it has introduced some confusion. People waited several days for the results of the tests, and after some unverified information, even those who were not tested received the results of the tests, and so on. Of course, the most problematic part, which comes as a result, is the allocation of quarantines for the infected and those who have been in contact with them, because this ultimately affects both their health and their work, the social situation, and ultimately their survival. It happens that quarantine orders are waiting too long. For example, in our parliamentary group, the co-worker waited for an order of 10 days, and now I am reading on Facebook about someone who waited 35 days for a ten-day quarantine to be determined on a document. And, of course, this is where the problem of communication comes from, especially with employers. Then there are these last measures that have opened up the possibility of oral quarantine, which will, of course, further deepen the confusion in the determination, proof, exercise of quarantine rights. Purely fresh — that the infected should also inform their own social circle of self-isolation. My questions for the absent Minister of Health are: How, in what way does the National Institute for Public Health ensure that tested persons are informed of the test result on covid-19? How does he comment on reports of confusion when informing tested persons? In what way and within what time frame does the National Institute for Public Health provide the quarantined persons with documentation? Why is it taking so long to provide documentation? In what way will oral quarantine be arranged to ensure legal certainty? In what way does the employer’s worker prove to the employer that he has been sent to quarantine so that he can benefit from the aid offered by the State, especially if the order comes orally? What does the measure mean that, I quote the media, “the Epidemiological Service has been no longer looking for high-risk close contacts since last Saturday, which means that it no longer makes proposals for a quarantine measure”? I would ask that the Minister, given that things are changing very quickly. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I'll repeat for the magnetogram that you want a written answer. We're moving on. Mrs Andreja Zabret will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister Janez Ciegler King! I believe that you are well aware of the situation in which children with special needs were already in the first wave and that you are also aware of the pressures experienced by their parents. For reasons of inappropriate behaviour in the first wave, when these social groups have not been treated separately and when you have not recognized the necessity of considering this group as exceptions within individual measures taken, it is difficult to measure the consequences that have arisen due to these decisions. If we were able to understand the urgency in the first wave and we can still understand that things were going fast and that, as a result, there might not have been time to prepare special measures for this vulnerable group, but today, at the second wave of these excuses, we will not be able to accept. That's why I'm asking you: What exactly have you done in the last four months, and what will be the course in dealing with children with special needs in the second wave? Where can we see your plan of action for this social group?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mrs Zabret, thank you very much for this question. As Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, I answer this question in the work that is within our competence. Initially, I explain that the education and education programme being carried out in the social welfare institutions for children with special needs is currently being implemented unchanged, as is the case with education. I add that at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities in the event of further deterioration of the epidemiological picture with covido-19, we will take decisions on the basis of coordination with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Ministry of Health, as we did during the first wave of the covida-19 epidemic and in the meantime. In any event, in the event of the necessary necessary temporary restrictions on the education and education programme, our engagement will be based on increased provision of individual treatment and appropriate professional support to both pupils and users of these services and their families. As you yourself have stated, this is a very important vulnerable group which was, I repeat, also highlighted in the first wave of measures, in the context of the measures proposed by the first anti-coronapackets. I have also met with a number of organizations representing children's parents with special needs, listening to them, and we have undoubtedly found the actual system situation in this area extremely difficult. There are many challenges ahead of us to properly place care for this most vulnerable group, to somehow restore to them the dignity that each person, every citizen and citizen deserves, and which has been in the last, I can say, for decades or in recent years certainly overlooked and neglected. I believe that even in social welfare institutions, if your question concerns children with special needs or persons with special needs who are users of these services, the situation is similar or perhaps even more worrying. I am personally faced with the exceptional human, spatial and financial hardships of these social security institutions. We are aware of the importance of providing professional assistance to families of children with special needs, including the deterioration of the epidemiological picture with covido-19. In September 2020, we successfully completed the award of a contract for the selection of the basic education provider for the representative of the family, in accordance with the Regulation on the representative of the family in the area of integrated early treatment of preschool children with special needs under Article 11 of the Law on integrated early treatment of preschool children with special needs. I can tell you, and it's good that this education is already under way. As soon as the candidates for family representation have completed their education, the first part of this education has already been completed, we will publish a public call at the Ministry for the appointment of family representatives. By appointing family representatives, we will implement a new institute under Article 11 of the Law on the Integrated Early Treatment of Pre-school Children with Special Needs, which will provide families with special needs or risk factors with support through conversation, the provision of a wide range of information on family support programmes or assistance in cooperation with other institutions. At the proposal of the parents of the child with special needs for the purpose of supporting the family, the representative of the family will also participate in meetings of the multi-disciplinary team within the competent early treatment centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you want to complete the question? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u176	Minister, thank you for your answer or perhaps even say no. You were talking about system regulation and you also said that the situation was poorly regulated, but we're talking about emergency situations. These are children who need professional help, children with special needs. At the time of the first wave, these children were also deprived of their health services because of the measures they had taken, which has brought a lot of weaknesses in their development, and parents have also reported stagnation and even a decline in their psychophysical condition. You too have received a letter from Mavrica, where they speak exactly about these children, what it means to them. I have not seen from your conversation – you are in favour of systemic regulation and I appreciate it very much, but I have not received an answer as to what the parents of children can expect with special needs when they resume their activities, which is what is happening today. It should be borne in mind that the absence of adequate care for this vulnerable social group results in unfathomable and unfathomable consequences in stagnation or even reversal of their psychophysical condition. As I said before, we and you have been approached by parents of children with special needs, and I believe that you know that their call for help needs to be detected and read. That's why I'm once again interested in: What is the concrete plan at this time of emergency? I certainly agree that there is a need for systemic regulation. You are a minister who is very committed to your topic, and you are also very present in the National Assembly, and I do not doubt that you will try to do so, but I am really interested in what the parents of these children can expect at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As we have pointed out many times, and I myself, we are trying to deal with our colleagues in the Government in this way with the challenges of this time, so that on the one hand we can ensure the normal functioning of society as much as possible, and on the other hand we are trying to stop the spread of the virus, namely in a health sense, all with a view to protecting the most vulnerable groups of people in our country. Children with special needs, their families certainly belong to those whom we want to protect as a matter of priority. In this respect, I accept all the initiatives and also the representatives of these organisations. You mentioned Mavrica, I also met the company of the Happy Legs and some others who are addressing us with many suggestions. I really listen to them with interest and try to follow their direction in finding answers and solutions for a purely concrete situation in this difficult time. If social life stops more, it is certainly an extraordinary challenge to provide sufficient assistance on the one hand and, on the other hand, to protect their health. That is why we will do everything we can to take appropriate action – I apologize, I have one problem with my vote. I would like to conclude here and we can reply in writing below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zabrett, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u180	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Somehow I have to say that I'm still disappointed that I didn't get any concrete answers. At present, we have a 30-day epidemic and I think that this is a period that will once again affect children with special needs, and parents will face again the fear and uncertainty of what the consequences will be for their children. Therefore, in view of all of this – I think the topic is very important – I propose that a general discussion be held at one of the next meetings on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the October 21st vote. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Jožef Lenart will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u182	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Hello all present guests, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mrs. Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer! My question to you, Madam Minister, is addressing the problem of the disproportionateity of the study programmes that have been signed and the number of enrolments in colleges that have not followed the needs of the labour market in the last three years, and this could be said not to plan national education. Slovenian higher education is ours and yours, as well as general public responsibility. It is also among the development challenges of Slovenia that we want to create a knowledge society that will continue to develop. This is supposed to bring economic growth and greater prosperity. By increasing the quality of higher education, we increase the knowledge of the population and especially of our youth and create and fill better quality and well-paid jobs. The employment situation of university graduates is alarming. We still have no basis for our young people to be educated for those professions that are employmentable, which require both the public sector and the economy. We lack doctors, dentists, physiotherapists, nurses and technical engineers. Then we train over-graduate economists, lawyers, educators, graduate teachers and, above all, social skills. On my written question last year, the previous Minister, Mr Pikalo, acknowledged that between 2013 and 2018 at the Ministry you did not have traceable indicators of the degree of employment of higher education graduates between 2005 and 2018, which are now being prepared. We know you've only been a minister for six months, but I'm talking about what the problems were and what steps should then be taken to change this situation. I want to know: Has the employment situation of university graduates changed? Is the analysis done? How do you plan and implement new study programmes?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much for your question, Mr Lenart. First, let me start with the fact that education is also a living process at the level of higher education, which we can actually plan technically to a certain extent, and at certain points, life simply happens to us. Which means, in practice or in other words, that now that we have two Bologna levels of education, first and second, we see that the very large majority of students, after the completion of the first Bologna level, then go to studies at the second Bologna level, which is not necessarily the same as those at the first stage. In the meantime, something has happened whether they have found any new programming, content visions for their lives forward and — something in this sense. In short, the content with which they entered the educational process is not necessarily the same as the content with which they came out. From the point of view of planning a further career path, when you start studying, this so-called living process of life can happen and we need to have understanding in this sense. You are right, however, that in this context planning is necessary strongly, I will say, to paralyse the concept of the development of new study programmes, the number of places of entry and the need for the labour market and that this must somehow be a fundamental structure. And hand to heart, we don't have enough of that right now. However, we are taking very decisive steps towards this direction, primarily through a project that we are already implementing within our ministry within the framework of the ESS project, this project is called the establishment of a system to monitor the employability of higher education graduates in Slovenia and the modernisation of the registered system of higher education analysis in Slovenia. What are we doing? We obtain data from universities or colleges about graduates, and in addition to theirs, I will say that the purely socio-demographic structure is obtained about the groups of graduates and what happens to them in the first period after the completion of the study on the individual labour market. So that's where they work. Then we look at this from the point of view of professions according to the 2008 standard classification of professions and also review the employment activities of graduates following the standard classification of activities. This is how we acquire or build a picture. But this is just the first step we've taken. One important step is still ahead of us, a step where we will then connect this data with the data of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Employment Institute – it is said that we will really get one full picture here – now in this second step we will continue to work with Slovenian higher education institutions in a way that we will obtain more detailed feedback from higher education institutions on their qualitative analyses, findings, results, what is actually going on with their graduates, and also during the study process, what these data on the development of their students show about the progress of their students. And then we will bring this into what is called the labour market needs plan, which we will do in cooperation with the competent Ministry of Economy and, of course, the competent Ministry of Labour. It is the latter that is developing some employment platform on these grounds, which, according to the information I have obtained on the basis of your question, is available somewhere from 2023 onward. In short, it is a complex, important story, a systemicly important story, as you have pointed out, which we have been overly partial to and now needs to be placed together. We are also grateful for this opportunity, which we have in the context of European funding, that we will now be able to continue this project successfully and to achieve this objective, which I believe is in our best interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u185	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Members, do you have a request to complete your response? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u186	Thank you very much again. Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for those answers. If I can get it back up a little bit. You mentioned the European Social Fund. I am pleased that it is actually being implemented and is gaining funds to make progress in the field of education in Slovenia. Now, I'm not gonna be too critical about it, but we know we've been limping around here a little bit. So there's something else I need to ask you. Thus, for many years we have been going on and running regular study programmes, which are clearly known in the economy that they are not necessary. Too many people are also educated in the social field. I'm also curious: If the economy and the public sector know that we do not need to, then why are there so many of these programmes and calls, why is it that, say, more dentists and physiotherapists are not educated? I'm actually interested in this. Because, to be honest, we are here a little compared to other members of the European Union, it is true that we are leading the unemployed among highly educated people. In 2018, 17% of all unemployed persons in the Employment Service were educated at a 6th, 7th or higher rate. In 2019 also around 17% of all unemployed. In 2020, 18% of all unemployed people are already unemployed. And now, let's say of all these unemployed, even 5% in the Podravje where I come from. That's why I think it's really necessary here to do something that's also one of the reasons we have a brain drain. These are millions of losses for our country and, of course, we're wondering if this is what we're working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u188	As you correctly point out, it is not only enough that we approach the project, monitor and then respond at one point. As I spoke a few hours ago about the need for a new vision, a new perspective on the knowledge of the future, including the development of a new education system in this connection, this applies to the entire educational vertical. We start with kindergartens and really end with higher education in this regard and then continue with the concept of lifelong education. But what's crucial is what you're saying is that we have to educate highly qualified personnel for the needs of the market. Somewhere between 70% and 80% of the population is this profile, what we call a direct user application value of knowledge. Then we also have one share, which is still dedicated and must remain dedicated to the development of knowledge because of its own knowledge, which is the focus on more fundamental scientific disciplines and the attitude towards knowledge, even this work should not be ignored. But what is crucial now is to link the needs of one side of what society needs, what the system needs, of course, with desires, with some competences, with the preferences of future graduates, in order to do their job really well. In this light, even before it became active or parallel to the activation of this great national project, which I have described to you before, I must say that some of the faculties have already been monitoring these processes very independently, including through European funding, as well as through the co-financing of our ministry, when the activities of the so-called career centres were developing. Then let's say we have a direct project in cooperation with the economic and non-economic sectors. Let's say one such project is A creative path to knowledge and say Student innovative projects for social benefit and so on. In short, even these project initiatives within are those that then help students get to the first jobs they want. At the same time, once again, and you rightly point out this, we need to make a systematic review of what we are learning and what society really needs from both the market and from the point of view of these things, let's say, social and social skills and also scientific skills.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We're moving on. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister without a department responsible for development and European cohesion policy, Mr Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! We are all somehow aware that the covida-19 epidemic has greatly changed and reached into our lives, stopped the economy, in some ways caused economic damage as well. At the same time, it also presents a kind of opportunity for development. You will also point out several times, i.e. the Government, that Slovenia will receive €10 billion of development funding in the next financial perspective in the multi-annual financial framework during this period. There are a lot of questions about these funds, a lot of confusion. There are also newspaper articles that open up a series of questions and ask for answers. I'm interested, Mr. Secretary, in: What is the structure of the funds that we will receive in the next multiannual financial framework, how much per item and how much will we have to pay in this budget? This is very important to me because we are talking once about 10 billion, then someone is saying that we are going to have to pay into the budget, and I am interested in how much the difference between payments and payments is in this seven-year financial framework. Because if we talk - unofficial data is that we will get between €2 billion and €3 billion more than we will pay in the budget. This means that the proceeds of this 200, 300 million euros a year. It is very important to me that the European funds, which are practically the only development funds, are spent and invested in an appropriate way, so that as much as possible will be recovered from them. This information, which we have received today, which the Prime Minister himself has suggested – that the European Commission has tore up a government proposal on how this money should be spent, raises a number of questions because it does not send free writings to Brussels, but official structured documents, in line with the strategy that Brussels is prescribing. Here I would like to say that Brussels has already indicated at the beginning of this year which direction investments must go in which direction programmes must go, i.e. digitally, greenly, to strengthen the human economy. And when you read in a newspaper article that we are going to build and finance the construction of roads and airlines, of course, this is the shift that the European Commission has for itself, as we have now clearly witnessed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you very much for this question and that I can also repeat what has been said many times in recent days, as well as written, but obviously some read information only from one media. The European Commission has not torn anything apart because the European Commission has not addressed anything. The plan to recover and strengthen resilience will only be submitted for consideration when a regulation has been adopted in this regard. The Regulation is currently in coordination and the timetable set is that this Regulation is to be adopted by the end of the year. Once adopted, this Regulation provides a formal basis for the submission of a plan for the recovery and strengthening of resistance to the formal procedure. However, these plans may be submitted by the end of April of the following year at the latest. As you know, the government has set up a much more ambitious timetable a long time ago, which is why the starting points for the preparation of this plan have already been considered at a meeting of the Government on 27 August this year, a month after this financial framework has been negotiated, and on 8 October it was confirmed by the Government for the first draft of this plan, which is not the one sent to officials of the European Commission on 8 October. 7. and written about by some journalists. What journalists are writing about is a draft, a document created in working communication, in coordination between our officials and between officials of the European Commission. However, the purpose of this communication was to reach an improved proposal as soon as possible, which will later, when the formal procedure is also possible, receive as soon as possible confirmation at the level of the European Commission. So the European Commission didn't tear anything up because it didn't deal with anything. The working communication that has been carried out will also take place in the future and the opportunities for such and other articles will be no more. Of course, it will no longer be possible to write in the same way as it was in this case, because a draft prepared on the basis of the starting points that we have drawn up past the European Commission's guidelines, which it published only on 17 September. And you need to know that the document that was prepared based on the source that the government has already confirmed is 27. 8. Then, within a week, it could not be technically changed, and the main point of these administrative comments concerns the technical structure of the document. Much has already been said about the resources available in this perspective and the mechanisms under which these funds can be drawn. Finally, the mayors of the municipalities met twice in Brdo, 31. 8th and then in September as part of the Council of State. It showed that of this cut, which is above EUR 10 billion 200 million, it represents 3.6 billion in repayments, remains indemnities and that it is still necessary to draw about a billion more from the current financial perspective over the next three years. So we're talking about 12 billion, which, of course, you would say, is a challenge, but it's also a problem because this country has never been able to absorb more than 400 to 500 million euros. In the next 10 years, and by 2030, we will need to build capacity to be able to absorb annually between 700 and 100 million euro of European funds, which, of course, must be added to an appropriate part of the national envelope. So here we have a challenging task, which is why we have also accelerated it and we will also successfully complete it and complete it, so that the resources available over the coming years will be spent effectively. Three, four mechanisms meet. This is the current framework, which needs to be added to REACT funds of EUR 333 million at constant prices, then this recovery fund, where it is a billion 600 plus 3 billion 600 recoveries, where this plan was being prepared, and, of course, the next multiannual financial framework of 2021-2027, amounting to 2.9 billion from three cohesion policy funds, the ESF, the ERDF and the Cohesion Fund, and a billion and a billion and a billion and one billion 600 from two agricultural policy funds. Of course, the funds of the new Fund for a Fair Transition to which individual regions will be entitled should also be added. About the net position. The net situation in the coming period will be a positive net position between €4 billion and €5 billion. It's hard to estimate at this point, I'm talking about the amount at constant prices. However, I can tell you that Slovenia's net position so far has been good, from the start of the implementation of cohesion policy we record 3.3 billion euro net position funds by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mag. Raj, do you have a request to complete your response? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your comprehensive response. If I understand you correctly, we will get from the EU budget between €4 billion and €5 billion more than we will pay for it. Am I getting you right? I have not yet concluded the debate, but if I understand you correctly, please confirm to me that in the coming period we will receive from the European Union budget between €4 billion and €5 billion more than we will pay in it. This is of great interest to me because, according to publicly available data, I will say again, we will get €2.9 billion from cohesion policy, €1.6 billion from agricultural policy, €2.1 billion from grants and €3.6 billion from the recovery plan. I am interested in talking about the same figures as we are going to get more from the European budget than we are going to pay for it. The loan is not free money, and we know that we have to pay it out of the budget of the European Union. And I'm interested, please, Mr. Secretary, in discussing clear numbers here, and I'd like you to comment on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you very much. You got me right. Assuming we draw 100 per cent of all the funds that have been negotiated, and assuming that we are talking about constant prices, this net effect will be between €4 billion and €5 billion. But right now, it's hard to predict the exact number. It should be borne in mind that over the next period, we have a new mechanism called the Recovery Facility, where for about 2.1 billion funds, I speak at constant prices, we will not have to pay anything, and that we have five funds totalling over 4.6 billion euros in cohesion policy. So that Slovenia's position forward is favourable, but a little less favourable position is in the part where we face the level of preparedness of projects for which these funds can be used. We have looked at what has been done in the last eight years, and you will not believe in health care, because some in this room talk very much about investment in public health, there is not a single major project prepared so that it can be implemented in a short time. I'm not talking about a building permit, I'm talking about that no project has investment documents. In the area of the care of the elderly, where we currently record 12 thousand 221 bed deficits in nursing homes, according to the data of the institution, social institutions – if you look at the website, today this number is more than 12 000 – currently no public home is prepared in the sense that it can be implemented in the future. This is why we have only connected with the mayors of many municipalities and with their help we will be able to implement a number of projects that we should already be prepared and should now, at the moment we receive this significant financial cake, simply pull them out of drawers, but unfortunately we cannot do this. However, we will, of course, do everything in cooperation with all stakeholders to ensure that these funds are committed as soon as possible, that they are used economically and efficiently and that they are used for projects and not for studies as they were in the past. Of these studies, unfortunately there is not a single prepared project that would be ready to go today. I would also like to take this opportunity to debate whether Slovenia is the one at this point who has to use these funds to recover for large or small projects. See, there are no large and small projects, there are only projects that add value to people, and there are projects that do not provide such added value. Only this will be a criterion in the use of resources in the future. All projects that will be financed from any of the European Union funds will be projects that will add value to people, for someone a small project from a financial point of view is a big project and vice versa. We will follow this principle, leaving no part of Slovenia behind.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mag. Reich, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u198	I think this topic is very important and it is necessary to hold a debate in the National Assembly on the basis of these answers, which I am not satisfied with. According to my data and my calculations, Slovenia will receive between €2 billion and €3 billion more from the European Union budget than it has paid, and not between €4 billion and €5 billion from the EU budget, as stated by the Minister. I therefore propose to the National Assembly that we discuss this. Nor did the Minister answer my questions, he was essentially talking about the total amount of cohesion funds of €4.5 billion. I asked him clearly how much of these cohesion funds we will first pay in and how much we will get out, how much this difference, and how much this response has not given and how these answers are avoided. Therefore, once again, it is necessary and meaningful to discuss this subject in the National Assembly in order to finally identify those development priorities that will put the Slovenian regions on the German-French train and which will address all the challenges of our society. We also have experience and challenges in the area of long-term care, but unfortunately we still do not have a clear and uniform waiting line, so that these data with which the Minister operates were not accurate and are not true because they simply are not. Just as it is not accurate data on waiting periods in health care, although we have modern applications even for tracking people, the government and the ministry cannot establish uniform waiting lines in the state system. So, when a doctor issues a tip and receives it, a specialist should only enter this tip into the system and the waiting types in the system are known. With regard to European cohesion policy, many questions are raised, including this draft draft raises a lot of questions if roads were primarily involved and even the establishment of an airline, and the European Commission has a green and digital development strategy. I therefore once again call on all Members and Members to support me in the initiative and in the proposal for a debate on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October, in the framework of the votes. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Jani Ivanuša will ask the Minister of Public Administration Mr Boštjan Koritnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, all present, especially my Minister of Public Administration! People are dissatisfied with the work or work of public servants. But if there's no mistake, let's go in a row. My parliamentary question includes a bureaucratic part, only a bureaucratic part of the public sector, that is to say administrative units, inspections, inspectorates, financial administrations, ministries and so on. At the time of the epidemic, this one came back today, people had a lot of problems in administrative units. If you came to the administrative unit, you got fired, they said, you know what, you have to check in, you have to make a phone call when you called, and no one picked up the phone, and of course it didn't go through. Whether it's a citizen service, I ask. If you call the court, you can't get a judge if you call the hospital, you can't get a doctor if you call the FURS, you're in some kind of waiting line, and you're waiting so long for you to finally forget what you wanted to ask. Staff members of the Financial Administration shall take the lead among public servants. They require a number of information and information that can be obtained more easily and more quickly by themselves. Not all people at home have documents in the files and ready for work, so public servants should look for information and documents themselves at a higher stage. Public servants still do not know how to serve, since they serve customers instead of their officials and so on. Officials are late to issue decisions, although they have legal deadlines. They're a little dissuaded that these are instructional hands that have no consequences. Then why do we even set our hands in laws if public servants do not stick to them? I don't understand that. I allow the possibility that you will say that these are only flat-rate statements, but all these statements can be confirmed by documents, all of them. Therefore, I also expect your specific commitments to improve this situation. I want to know: When will you publish direct telephone numbers and e-mail addresses for all public officials? When will the automatic response systems be shut down? When will a description of their works and tasks be added to all the public officials you have posted online, so that people will know who is responsible for what? Can an ordinary citizen on the phone talk to a judge, and why not? Why are some public servants unavailable? How will you ensure that people will be burdened with submitting a number of documents and data to which public officials have easier and faster access? So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Ambassador! Yes, I will say that some statements were flat, and what you say you have specific certificates or documents – I recommend. Otherwise, from what you have said, it follows that the readings are flying mainly to the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, her employees belong to public servants, but I will be happy to review this documentation and place it to the appropriate resource in the rescue. The answer to the first question is why telephone numbers and e-mail addresses are not published. It is crucial that the parties communicate with the body, not with individuals. At the Ministry of Public Administration, we believe that such an announcement would be neither rational nor meaningful. So, people are turning to an organ. Imagine the dissatisfaction when in time, I don't know, the use of an annual leave, the absence of a hospital, the absence of official restraint, there would be no response. Of course, that wouldn't make sense. At the same time, we need to be aware that it is because of the catalyses that protect the rights of the parties, the system where the tasks, the roles, all communication are recorded. Imagine how it would be, if even possible, to record a communication that would take place personally between a client and a public official. The least we could do would be to record and copy the footage. I fear that with the multitude of tasks that concern us – and you yourself have mentioned that this was at the time of the epidemic – this is really counterproductive. Here I must point out that, at the time of the epidemic or in these emergency situations, even at the normative level, it has been established that urgent matters are not being carried out. However, from the experience of employees in administrative units, I know that many parties have not. We have come across from them, we have even made certain applications, such as the application of a temporary residence without the necessary instruments, such as a qualified digital certificate, only via e-mail. So in that sense, we went across the street from them. You asked me why it doesn't stop automatic response. We provide accessibility with automatic response not only during working hours, but 24 hours a day, so many information can be obtained by answering agents, if not by other directions. In any event, the authorities shall be made available within nine to half-fourth hours each working day and shall, as a rule, accept this, not by automatic means, but by a public official. Regarding the publication of the description of the works and the orders that people will know what someone is responsible for. Citizens, once again, do business with the Authority, not with individual public servants. The Authority is the one to ensure that the client is responsibly and adequately resolved, while the job description is consistent with the law as part of the job set out in the job system and as part of the employment contract, so that we do not see the practical, useful effects of the publication. These observations about inaccessibility also occasionally come to us, we check it all, but, as it is said, an individual public servant, including one who may have led the matter, cannot be available at all times, and that is why we ensure that the client is serviced by an authority, not an individual public servant. I can ensure that the parties, whether they will communicate by telephone or by e-mail, will receive an appropriate response or response. With regard to access to data and records, I agree, this has been a major problem, but it has been regulated for several years now that public servants are obliged to obtain for themselves the information available in the official records. Moreover, even if the authority in an individual case had requested a party to provide such accessible information, it could reject that party and not have any negative consequences. A lot of information from public administrations is available freely. The eGovernment portal is also, in principle, accessible without a qualified digital certificate, only exceptionally, this requirement is required for those applications or services where an earlier application with personal data is required, which, of course, makes it easier for that party to proceed again. Finally, your question about the judges and [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Minister. Your time is up. You'll probably be able to answer in the second part. Mr. Ambassador, do you have a request for a supplement? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Thank you for these answers, but in the part where you said it would not make sense for individual employees to publish their addresses and phone addresses, I don't know – if your body isn't responding via the phone, you were talking about the organ, and I was talking about individual employees if there's no response, but there's no response, no matter who's written up or not. That's my personal opinion. What else can I say? In Slovenia there has been so much talk in recent times about digitisation and electronic commerce. Minister, I don't know if your public servants are really promoting electronic commerce. It's not detectable. Public officials often demand that documents be sent by mail. They also require original documents. They demand that the body be personally visited. So you come there yourself because they don't believe you on the phone or anything. They do not wish to provide any information on the phone and refer to the Regulation on the Protection of Personal Data. They shall even question the powers when the parties have delegated the power of attorney. I have three more questions: How should people deal with public servants electronically if they do not have their e-mail addresses? Can you check out your permanent residence by e - mail today? Are all public administration portals accessible with username and password? That's it. These are questions that I am further interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u206	If I may continue, I will not lose. You asked about the judge and the client's communication with the judge. Besides, it's not my department, but it's my career path. The judge is an officer. In any event, therefore, it is not a public official and, in order to ensure impartiality in the proceedings, it is crucial that the individual party cannot communicate with him, except through an official or a personal person. But as I say, this is more of a responsibility of the Minister of Justice. As far as communication with FURS is concerned, I can tell you that eTaxes are a system that has been mass in use for more than a decade, and all the information, all the documents that you said people have in the folder – I have not personally communicated with the employees of FURS for probably 10 years. It's all very easy to get there. Even if you do not have a qualified digital certificate, they allow you to log into the system, send a password to the home in the envelope, and you can easily access the system. As far as the original documents are concerned, it is also an experience of its own. It's sometimes very hard to figure out whether they're original or fake. As it is said, in my previous job, I have often been faced with this, very difficult to understand on a scanned document whether the stamp is really what it should be or not. Since public servants are obliged to check if they suspect an illegal procedure, they are obliged to verify it, I believe that they are rationally using this possibility to see the original if there could otherwise be a copy. As far as the phone and personal data protection are concerned. You know at this time how much trouble we have had for matters that were necessary for the protection of health, for the prevention of infections, with the views of the Information Officer, which, of course, requires the proper protection of personal data. So I kind of don't feel like a cover for that question. But somehow the general assessment is that we have such and different public servants, but these cauldrons that you listed today are mostly to protect the interests of the parties in the proceedings. And if a client can't call a public servant, there's plenty of other ways to get to him. So not personally, but to the organ. Once again, I ask you to understand that we are in a situation where procedures and requirements are even more, if not less than otherwise, and that other obligations are substantially more than normal, normal times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u207	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal, Mr Member. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u208	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. As far as the judge is concerned, he is not responding. We are Members of Parliament, but we are still responding to those who call us on the phone. It's our job. It's part of our job. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, however, I would like to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make one more observation, or an initiative, to this government team. Ministers and ministers of the former government, Mr Sharpe – I must tell you that we have just had our visits on their part. All ministers were members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. They came in with laws, they introduced us to laws, we didn't have to sign anything, but we knew everything, and we got so much information that we were able to define ourselves more easily. And from this ministerial team, I must say, apart from Mr. Tonin, there was no one here. But here I would give you one initiative to visit us, always welcome everyone, and to tell us more. Although we have signed an agreement with the coalition, it is a signature of laws to make it easier to communicate and meet them. But I do miss these visits. I'm sorry. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, since the lady for education was also, I'm already correcting my statement, but still. I'd like you to come over and tell us a little bit more about the laws that are always in the process of not hunting after, you know. That would be on my side. Thank you so much for the answers, but thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. We have traced your procedural proposal, which will be decided on Wednesday, 21 October, in the framework of the votes. At this point, may I remind all Members once again of the instruction given at the outset by the President of the National Assembly. And that is that in the procedural proposals we do not discuss substantively and thus prolong our questions or even anything else you have talked about. But let the procedural proposals be just to explain your proposal why a general discussion is taking place on this subject. Just enough to be right for everyone. Now we continue with the questions. Mrs Mojca Žnidarič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, all present! In the coalition agreement, we have also advocated, among other things, the arrangements for widow's pensions. In my opinion, the arrangement involves not only a rise in the dose rate, but a system of arrangements that will enable widowers to live a decent life after the death of their spouse or partner. Under the current regime, the widow's pension belongs to the person who, at the time of the death of the insured person or the beneficiary of the rights, is still a transitional period and this year is sufficient for 57 years, and there are still conditions to be fulfilled by the person in order to be able to receive the widow's pension earlier, such as that the widow's pensioner was completely unable to work until his death or one year after his death or that he has children who are entitled to a family pension after his death. However, the exercise of the right to work on a widow’s pension is somewhat different. Those who have the right to an early retirement and invalidity pension may, if they meet the conditions and are more favourable to them, also pay 15% of the widow's pension in addition to their own. The amount of part of the widow's pension must not exceed 11,7 % of the lowest pension base, which is only 104,70 euros. Dear Minister, my purpose, of course, is not to teach you what a system of widow's pensions we have. There are more than 600 000 pensioners in Slovenia, the number is rising and the problem of low pensions and poverty among the elderly is also growing. The essence of my question is to point out the non-lifelessness of the arrangements for widow's pensions in terms of eligibility conditions and in terms of the low amount by which the beneficiaries of widow's pensions barely survive. That's why I'm asking you: When and how do you plan to remodel the widow's pension system? What are the shortcomings of the current arrangements you are familiar with? Do you think that one of the possible changes in the arrangements for widow's pensions would also be a rise in the dose rate? Are you going to raise a portion of widow's pensions, which is now only 15% of the widow's pension, and it was 25% years ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u211	Thank you very much for your question. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, Mrs Žnidarič, for this question or questions. The arrangement of widow's pensions is certainly one of the areas of pension legislation that we will have to focus on in the near future and pay particular attention to, as you mentioned, to which we have committed coalition partners. However, changes to this area must take into account the foundations of the pension and disability insurance of the Republic of Slovenia, which is based on three principles. The first and most basic principle is that rights come from work. The other two important principles are the principle of intergenerational solidarity and the principle of reciprocity. These principles dictate the definition of the nature of the rights of compulsory pension and disability insurance in such a way that they are inseparable and can, as a rule, be acquired or enjoyed only by an insured person who cannot even dispose of them freely, since their primary purpose is to provide social security insurance. An exception to the principle that only an insured person can obtain a pension is the right to a widow’s or family pension. I must point out whether or not I want the acquisition of a widow's pension not to mean the inheritance of that right to which he was entitled, but rather the right of compulsory insurance which occurs in the event of the death of an insured person. Such arrangements provide for the material and social security of a surviving spouse or other family members when a loved one’s death also results in the loss of a foster family. In accordance with the above principles of the compulsory pension and disability insurance system and the obligation to provide social security under the evidence system, the percentage limit of the widow's pension is reasonable. I believe, however, that, given the responses that come from coalition partners and the coalition partners' commitment to the coalition contract, as by citizens and citizens after Slovenia, we must and are committed to looking at this regime of limitation of height, which now amounts to 70% of the pension to which the deceased partner was entitled. With regard to the shortcomings of the current arrangement of widow's pensions, individuals who, on the one hand, have proposed higher doses of widow's pension, and on the other hand the works of the widow's pension, which is indeed low, 104 euros maximum. I would also mention situations where the surviving partner does not complete the prescribed age for obtaining the right to widow's pension because at the time of his partner's death, he was too young and somehow lost that right. In paying off the pension, there is a second part of your question, I would like to point out that this institution represents a social adjustment, since in the case of work of the pension there is no insurance risk of losing the income of the foster family, since the beneficiary also receives his old, early or invalid pension. The social security nature of this right is pronounced in that part of the pension is recognised depending on the amount of the retirement, early retirement or invalidity pension, since not every surviving partner is entitled to it. However, I think that it is also necessary to check these effects of the amended regime before the increase in the proportion of the widow's pension, to compare it with the previous years, to examine how the individual proposed measures work together and to what extent this measure may already be applied in the context of the recent increase in the current percentages.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, do you have a request for a supplement? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u214	I would really like to appeal to the Minister to address this issue as soon as possible because time is running away. I know that we had a similar record in the previous coalition, but unfortunately we have not been able to realize anything, a percentage of the widow's pension was projected to rise from 15% to 25%. These percentages were indeed low and were already 25% years ago. Now I don't know if it's downgraded by Zuyf or any other law, but now that I've gone into this subject, I see that it's not the only problem, but there are really other different conditions for obtaining a widow's pension in general very large. I think that one difference, which I think is unjustifiable, is that if, for example, a woman gets a pension after a deceased widower, she can be different from someone who is employed, because then death is considered to be the acquisition of the first category and then is calculated in fact his invalid pension and then only after that disability pension of 70%. And these are really so low amounts that I actually think that statistics prove that among those pensioners who live alone with one so low pension is really very much poverty. This is how I really urge that, despite all the other obstacles you have in your ministry, now also with your co-vide and everything else, you focus on this topic as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, is there anything else you'd like to add? No, no, no. Then let's move on. Mr Aljaž Kovacič is next. He will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, hello for the second time today; colleagues and colleagues! My parliamentary question will be about sport. I will not lose words about how sport is important for all people in the world and how Slovenia has a special relationship to sport, to all success and also to recreational sport. This composition of the National Assembly was also accepted on the holiday – the day of Slovenian sport. At that time, I said that Slovenian athletes and all those involved in sports would have nothing to do with this if the state did not take care of sport. In fact, in the past, sport has not been taken care of as it should be. In particular, I am saddened that sport has completely forgotten all the billions that the government has dedicated to various groups. No PKP actually mentions sport and is not helping it. In the long term, many Slovenian sports companies will unfortunately fail, because the economic crisis and various economic facilities will not simply have the money to help and donate to sport. The other thing that has affected sport is that unfortunately, because of the epidemiological picture, viewers cannot be at various sports competitions. And that means an extra minus for clubs that are also living with it. The third thing that has affected sport is not about professional athletes, but mainly about young people. Young people cannot engage in sports, we know what this means for their health in the long term. In fact, as a young man, even as a parent, it hurts very much, because if Slovenian clubs fail in the long run, young people will not have to go anywhere else after the crisis. I would like to ask you two specific questions and ask you for an answer: With all the epidemiological conditions we have, don't you think it's fair for the state to make sure that the clubs are paid covid tests, given that the clubs are in crisis? One of the handball clubs in Slovenia calculated that it would cost more than 100,000 euros per year for covid tests alone. And I don't know where they'll get that extra money if we know they'll actually get less money. Do you find it fair that Slovenian clubs lose European competitions in European Cups because of the rules Slovenia has so different from other European countries? We know what that means for clubs, we know less money again.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Kovačič! I've been trying to structure a number of your questions. If I understand correctly, we're talking about three things in the context of what you're asking me. First, about the attitude towards sport by the State and by an individual as a citizen. Actually, let's take care of the sport ourselves first. No one else, I believe, forces us to do what we can and cannot do to our bodies if we want to be as active as we are ourselves. This is the first and only right and healthy decision. As far as the role of the State is concerned, it certainly is and must be encouraging. She needs to be assisted, not in such a way as to do everything she can instead of sports. Sport is, in the first place, a very independent activity, and so is it. The predominant majority of high-level sport even has in it, and that is also true, during this period the moment of so-called economic activity. And here too, the country is actually called or somehow expected to help. And if I move now to the financial part of your question in support of the state. It will not be true that the state has not helped the sport during the current period of covida. As part of the first anti-Korona package, all those engaged in business, employment or public sports activities were included in the implementation of their mission, part of the anti-Korona package. There they received direct financial assistance or payment for lost income or wages when they were unable to carry out their activities due to restrictions. A very similar story will happen with the fifth antikoronic package, which I believe you voted on Thursday at the vote. There, too, you voted on two important financial measures that will help some of the winners of the annual sport programme who have failed or will not be able to spend their entire amount because of cot restrictions this year. By means of this anti-korona law, they have been given the opportunity to apply, if requested, their costs beyond the usual criteria for the use of the annual sport programme, of course under appropriate arguments or descriptions of why and how. It will also be possible to allocate a relatively unused part of the funds at national level among other operators of the annual sport programme, which will show the costs incurred through the accounts. And between these costs, testing costs will also be possible if the operators choose to do so. As it is said, there is also a number of such financial assistance. Not to lose too many words now; in the budget for 2021, on which you will vote, I hope you will vote a historic record of six million, almost seven million, to be allocated to sport infrastructure in the budget for 2021. To know how high this amount is; the second highest so far was in 2016 – 3 million 355 and the next highest will be in 2022 – 3 million 638. Then you can have nanism for a number of other measures, which the government has released from the first in the package to reactivate the sporting activity of citizens and also of top athletes in this particular period of time; and the fact that sport is still very active now that we have been doing the incarceration measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Member, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u220	Thank you for your answer. In the first part, I wouldn't agree with you when you said you didn't stop anything. The fact is that many sports, especially recreational ones, are disabled, in your opinion, as you said, because of some safety. I find it incomprehensible that I can't even ride with a friend, but I can walk around malls where there are hundreds of people. These are some illogical measures that do not give rise to any confidence in this government in the eyes of the public. When you said about the PKP1, the financial part. Yeah, it might have helped some club staff who are professional, but the fact is, most athletes have espies. And these people weren't actually helped because these forms about self-employed people, even though we warned them, you didn't want to get involved. I am pleased about these covid tests that this will be so that the clubs will be eligible for funding, because the problems are very large as far as finance is concerned. If everything was as good as you say, we, members of the opposition, and in fact the whole public would not turn to the industry, such as basketball, volleyball, football and handball, which have the greatest success as regards collective sport in Slovenia, and they have pointed to many things that are wrong and have not been done in this situation. Once again, I would ask you for an answer because you did not answer me about the case when one of the Ljubljana teams lost the European game because Slovenia has rules compared to other European countries, that the player should not then play if it is negative, although they have done many tests. Does that actually sound wise to you?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Yeah, you're talking about the case of the lost game of the Cedevita Olympia basketball club at the so-called green table. In this particular case, it was a situation where one of the members of the team covid was positive; therefore, on the basis of a professional epidemiological decision, the entire team had to be quarantined so that it could remain healthy and not spread any further infections. This is how students in their class are sent home if they face a positive infection. This is how teachers go; unfortunately, some had no masks in the halls last week, and one of them was infected, all of them had to go into quarantine. These are the rules that we must respect, because unfortunately we must act in a health-responsible manner. And that is, unfortunately, also the situation. But it's not the first one, not the last one, not the only one. And, as it is said, this moment is like this, but it will not be necessarily soon, provided that we are now able to squeeze our teeth and behave reasonably and in some way responsibly toward this situation. On the other hand, we also have many examples of team sports, where the relationship was fundamentally different, diametrically different, reasonable. Let's just say I remember this extraordinary, bright case of the entire decision of the volleyball association in the spring when the epidemic became active. Precisely because of prevention, care to prevent infection or transmission, they were instantly understood. In some ways, too, from the point of view of their decision - making, everyone is looking at business, looking visionaryly from his point of view. Once again, not only in the field of sport, everywhere, in all areas of social life, we must look at health first today. Even more, we need to avoid the situation when we have to look first from the point of view of life, then health and then economic activities. We really need to be aware of this now and take a responsible approach to it. And believe me, before we do that, we'll get through this before we can get back to a healthy world with one different freshness.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Aljaž Kovacič has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u224	Yes, even when I advocated all of this and listened to all of these trade unions, they always said that within certain rules they would be. Yeah, it certainly goes to all the clubs. Almost 90% of the competitions were cancelled and suspended in March, although then the clubs had to pay the players by the end of the official season — and that is also correct. Although they didn't compete, thank God, I hope, at least after most of them paid to survive. When you made a comparison with the teachers, with the students. It's still a bit of a specific matter here. When you, like, went into isolation, you could work from home. And even if you didn't do anything from home, you could get back to your job without a hitch. It's a little different with an athlete. If he goes into isolation on Sunday and does not train for the next 14 days, and his body is accustomed to crossing a bicycle every day to say 100 kilometers, then it is totally inhuman to expect that after 14 days of quarantine he will be able to sit on a bicycle and cycle again 100 kilometers. What I'm trying to say is that we're also putting ourselves at risk, and I'm not going to say life, but we're putting athletes in a situation where they can also get hurt in such a way that they have to end their career. And we know what it means to have a 20- or 25-year-old actually end his career. Many years, including money, free time, and everything he invested in it. In sports it is not so easy to say – So now you will be 14 days at home, the opposite team will be fully trained for 14 days and then we will meet on Monday for a basketball game or a five-hour tennis match. Here, such injuries may occur that the athlete ends his career in a moment. In view of the importance of sport in general, both for health and everything else, I propose that the State Assembly at one of the following meetings hold a debate on the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Mag. Meira Hot will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler King and Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar, who is today a percentage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Although I have already addressed several questions and initiatives regarding effective support measures during the epidemic for children with special needs and disabled children. However, I think it is urgent, especially given the marked deterioration of the epidemiological picture, that we are also discussing this today in the National Assembly, because I fear that there is still no proper hearing or solution for this particularly vulnerable group. The fact is that the measures make it harder for people to get a doctor, to get a proper treatment. I fear that some health services will be again cancelled for those of the most vulnerable children in whom any treatment lost is a huge loss and a setback in their development and progress. Children may lose certain skills they have already acquired. In some cases, developmental retardation may be increased; in the case of motor-obstructed people, poor joint movement may also occur. And it would be sad that the effect of long-standing regular and consistent therapies, including self-paid treatments that are extremely helpful to children, would now collapse within a few months. Of course, I am aware that the epidemic must first be contained, but I expect the government, together with the experts for those most vulnerable groups of children, to adopt more tailored, more lenient measures. We can't throw them all in the same basket, by the way. This is a special group requiring a different treatment. And you are probably also aware of Mavrica's letter of challenges, in which they point out that the measures taken in the past period, namely the failure of health services and the education of children with special needs, have brought enormous weaknesses and harm to these children. They caution that such measures are not reintroduced in the event of a deterioration of the epidemiological picture, but also propose some concrete measures. If I list only some: access to regular health and dental services, provision of uninterrupted therapeutic treatment, provision of self-paid therapeutic treatments, provision of the possibility for children in the institution to be visited by their parents, continuous access to educational institutions where children receive special pedagogical treatment and so on. In view of the above, I ask the following questions, Madam Minister, and at the same time ask that Mr Tomaž Gantar submit the answer in writing, because I think the matter is very urgent and there is no time to wait for the next meeting. So I'm asking: Are you familiar with the letter from Mavrica? Will children with special needs and disabled children be able to easily access regular health care if the epidemiological picture deteriorates? Will children be able to continue their schooling without delay this time, where special pedagogical treatment is given? How will visits by parents in institutions, with all the necessary safeguards, of course? Will parents be able to visit their children? Will you ensure the purchase of protective equipment for parents of children with special needs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u228	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador Hot. I sincerely thank you for this question, although it is very much linked to one issue raised by a fellow Member earlier. As you have already predicted in the question, much of this also applies to other resources, something to the health sector, and something to the education sector. I will try to answer this part of the question as comprehensively as possible concerning the competence of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. Otherwise, I would have explained in the introduction, as did my fellow Members, that the education and education programme carried out in the social welfare institutions for training children with special needs is currently being implemented unchanged. This is also taking place in the field of education and is therefore a competent education centre. We add that at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities in the event of further deterioration of the epidemiological picture, we will take decisions together with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. This has been our permanent way of working for the last half of the year, since in just a few areas we share competences with these resources, or especially with the health sector. In any event, in the event of the necessary necessary temporary restrictions on the education and education programme, our acquisitions will, as so far as is necessary, be based on increased provision of individual treatment and appropriate professional distance support, if necessary, to students or users as well as to their families. With regard to the availability of health services, dental services and other health matters, I believe that my fellow Minister of Health, Gantar, will be able to respond. With regard to the adoption of restrictive measures in the field of institutional protection, such as the restriction of visits, the decisions are linked to the epidemiological situation, the occurrence of infections in an institution or to a potentially stronger or worse deterioration of the epidemiological image in the local environment where the institution is located; when adopting measures, we and the social security authorities always weigh that on the one hand we protect the life, health and safety of users who are a very important vulnerable group. On the other hand, to ensure that they are in contact with their parents as much as possible, since these contacts are the child's right and, as you have already stressed, are extremely important for its development as well. The aim of contacts is to ensure the healthy and integrated development of the child. In accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Family Code, the principle of the child's benefit must always be the main guide in the decision-making of public authorities, public service providers and public authorities, and of course of all others. Contact with parents is vital for the health and development of children, as you yourself have already said in your question. It is therefore necessary to do everything in our power to ensure that these visits to parents in such exceptional circumstances as we are witnessing to them take place as smoothly as possible. If I can only stress that we are truly committed to taking the measures we are taking to ensure the lives and health of users, i.e. those most vulnerable groups, and not least to all citizens and citizens, as a minimum, to the normal lives and relationships of all people; on the other hand, we have worked as effectively as possible. This is our guide in taking these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member of the Commission, if you would like, a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you, Minister, for that answer. Of course, I can only agree with you, especially in that the child's benefit is what must guide us in deciding on these groups. But from this very point of view, I must remind you of the situation as it was at the time of the epidemic. We read in particular about how the country forgot about children with special needs, how they were isolated and how the whole burden of care fell exclusively and only on parents. That is why, of course, we are so much more concerned now, and that is why you may be answering similar questions twice today because we fear that the situation will happen again because we fear that these most vulnerable groups will remain somehow ignored or forgotten. Of course, health care is a primary concern, but health and life care is a key issue in this context, because if they are not provided with adequate care, they can go a long way and the damage they cause will never come back. And since you mentioned it yourself, I was wondering whether to address the question to all three ministers. The fact is that the Ministry of Education has an extremely important role to play; and in this context, it may only widen the issue. The fact is that parents have warned that this is one of the problems, that this issue is one of three ministries; and that sometimes this communication did not go as it should. In order for the Government to establish a very special office for children with special needs, because they did not get the right answers at the time of the epidemic, did not get the right care and were left alone. Schools were closed down, there were no day security guards, for example, where some of the children were enrolled. Their parents were with them 24 hours a day, on their own. And none of us want this to happen again, even now that the epidemic has been declared. And once again, I appeal and ask that it not only remain in words, but also that it actually applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like to add something? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u232	Thank you very much for complementing this issue and for caring for the most vulnerable groups and children with special needs, who are certainly a vulnerable group to which we must pay particular attention in finding suitable arrangements or solutions in this second wave of epidemic. If I may, in the first wave, my ministry, my department, to name it, has received the greatest expressions of distress, despair, the powerlessness of many groups of people, including families of children with special needs. In the given situation, we remember March 2020, that is, half a year ago, when the whole world didn't actually know the virus, when we didn't know what was waiting for us, what its characteristics were, we knew that it was spreading very quickly, we also knew that it could be potentially dangerous for the health and life of people, it was, in fact, after medical, health and social protection experts at the time – and I stress that – especially to ensure that these most vulnerable people were protected, or the belief that by temporarily limiting visits we could best respond to them. Of course, there were great hardships for parents and children, for those in institutional protection. For those at home who lived with their parents and, of course, were home for 24 hours, so there were no daily activities, and these hardships were still potential. We have tried to respond to these hardships, we have heard these societies. And I still owe you an answer to that question. We are, of course, aware of the letter from Mavrica of the challenges and will also address these initiatives or are already being addressed in the context of the preparation of future measures. But you see – and that is why I am also very under attack from the part of the Slovenian public – that we are aware of this, that we are aware of the importance of contacts, of maintaining openness to contacts. And, of course, we appeal to all employees and social security authorities to ensure this, of course, while respecting all preventive measures. And here we are looking for this balance to allow these contacts for family members as much as possible. And we will also provide the operators with the means to finance the necessary security equipment, as you asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Meira Hot, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u234	Thank you very much again, Madam Vice President. Yes, the subject is really very important. It's touching three different sources. And as I said before, in practice, the question has proved to be whether such an arrangement is even appropriate. We are at the time of the epidemic, we are in a very difficult time and in these times we still need to take more care of the most vulnerable groups. I believe that this is a subject that requires a debate in the National Assembly. I believe that this is a topic that needs to be answered in a broader debate, so I propose that a debate be held at one of the future meetings on children with special needs, in particular with regard to measures taken during the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u235	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Wednesday in the framework of the votes. We're moving on. Mr Janez Moskrič will ask the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! The Honourable Minister of Justice, Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich! The first judgements of the European Court of Human Rights against Slovenia due to inadequate conditions in Slovenian prisons were delivered in 2011 and the first compensation was paid a year later. The European Court of Human Rights has awarded compensation to detainees and prisoners in the Ljubljana prison, while all 145 complaints of alleged inadequate housing conditions in the prison at the Age were rejected. The most critical are the Ljubljana prison, located on Povšetova Street 5 in Ljubljana. The architecture of the prison building is from the Maria Teresa period, and the building was later renovated several times, but never completely. In particular, the complainants highlighted severe overcrowding, excessive restrictions, time outside the prison cell, inadequate health care, exposure to violence to other prisoners due to insufficient safety. In the light of all the information presented, the country was also aware of this in the past. As the main problems were also in the prison in Povšeta in Ljubljana, and in view of the general lack of facilities in prisons, the country transferred land years ago near the Lithuanian road, which is in the administration of the Ministry of Justice, in the fourth community of Sostro, is the village of Dobrunje, Municipality of Ljubljana, with the aim of building a new prison. The relevant documentation was also prepared, the City Council of the Municipality of Ljubljana also adopted a more detailed municipal spatial plan 147 in 2019, representing the Dobrunje prison area. I am interested in the value of the investment, the capacity of the prison and the short oris of the accompanying activities. In view of the question raised above, I am also interested in the amount of compensation that has been paid during this period. I'm asking for an answer and thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u238	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Member of the Commission, Mr Moškrič, thank you also for the question. Yes, some Slovenian prisons are not worthy in terms of providing spatial opportunities and also implementing the international standards that are prescribed. The day is also the prison of Ljubljana, as you said in your question. In 2011, the European Court of Human Rights found that the Republic of Slovenia was in breach of the ban on torture due to the spatial conditions of detention and imprisonment and prison sentences in the Institute for the Ending of Prison Penalties in Ljubljana. On the basis of this judgment, compensation amounting to EUR 173 000 277 was paid, and on the basis of the other claims brought for compensation, additional compensation was made before the domestic courts and on the basis of the settlements concluded. A total of 58 complaints were filed, 57 relating to prisons in Ljubljana. Here the State concluded 42 settlements and 16 compensations were determined on the basis of the judgment and the total amount was 194 thousand 119.48 euros. So 57 refer to Ljubljana, one to Maribor, but the procedure has not yet been completed, so the compensation has not yet been paid. A short time ago, however, the Advocate for the principle of equality, by its decision, also found a violation of the principle of equality, i.e. discrimination in the Igu prison. In other words, an administrative dispute has been brought here, but in the event of a positive solution for the Advocate of the principle of equality, compensation may also follow here. As I said in the introduction, it is extremely difficult to provide for international standards that are prescribed at some point, for reasons, you have indicated that these are buildings which were not intended to do so. Another reason is that our prison population is increasing, mainly due to detentions. In 2016, the number of detainees was 210, and in 2019 – 348 this year this number increased tremendously, mainly due to State border violations, illegal arrivals are said to be. All prisons, all institutions in the Republic of Slovenia are occupied more than 100%. We all agree that we need new places to jail in Ljubljana. In this way, Slovenia would finally resolve the issue of inadequate conditions for prison sentences for prisoners and also for employees, as employees also work in impossible conditions. At the same time, it would provide spaces that meet modern energy efficiency standards, as well as facilities that would allow judicial officers to be trained appropriately. Another aspect prevents such a situation. Last year, nearly 700 cancellations were made to the courts due to the lack of judicial officers. The creation of a special room in which individual hearings could also be conducted could ease this problem, since there is a special hall in the plan where such hearings could also be conducted in prison, it is said that it is not necessary for judicial officers to drive to the court, but also for competent officers to come. The current situation at the time of the epidemic presents an additional problem. Inadequate spaces make it impossible to ensure that infections are safe in a manner similar to that of other institutions, and therefore the measures we have taken in the PKP1 and now in the PKP5 are necessary to prevent the spread of the virus. Let me say that we have been relatively advantageous in the first wave, in the current situation, and in the second wave we already have quite a number of people infected in the Maribor Institute, especially among employees, as well as among certain people. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Your time's up. Mr. Member, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u240	Thank you very much for the comprehensive report on compensation. But I'll be very specific. Since the documentation for the new prison of Dobronje is prepared, I would like to ask for an answer for this part: When will the building permit be filed? The amounts of the budget are somehow foreseen. Or you can introduce them. I would point out, however, that the land has been owned for some time now and that there are actually maintenance costs. This is an abandoned grammar, which is suffocating, the people of this part of Ljubljana accepted this investment of the country, did not object because it was properly presented to them at the time, with the aim of regulating this degraded area as well. At least that part was saved for you. When will the investment be made that people will then be informed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u242	Thank you very much for this supplementary question. I should like to start by thanking the people that they have accepted and agreed to build a prison in this area, so that the activities have been carried out since 2017, as you said. We will apply for a building permit this year to the Ministry of Environment and Space. This investment is referred to as a strategic investment within co-vid recovery projects, so that we will also receive a building permit or priority treatment as a priority. It is envisaged that in the following year at the beginning of the year they would obtain a building permit, and then also in the same year they would execute a public contract for the selection of the contractor for construction works. In 2022 construction would start and take about two years, so that in 2025 they would also have a residence. You asked me at the beginning what the surface was. The total net is the floris 22 000 square meters, which covers the premises of detention and imprisonment, the open department, especially the premises for employees, the training centre for the justice of police officers. This investment is worth 72.8 million. By the end of 2020, we will be able to draw $5 million out of this and we also have the resources provided in the budget. However, this will represent a capacity for 388 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u244	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. I'm just going to tie myself to the Minister's debate when he was talking about October 17th, which is the international day of the fight against poverty. I must admit that in this year it is even more pronounced or socially visible that those who are the weakest in our society, and also those who have been pushed to the most social side, have also been under more stress or even greater loss of such and other goods. However, I would like to read to the Minister the declaration of the Ombudsman, at least the part he had on the international day of the fight against poverty. I'll just read one piece. “Slovenia is a social and rich country, the standard of living of its inhabitants is relatively high, but unfortunately not for everyone. Too many still live below the poverty line, among them the most pensioners with the so - called silent poverty, for they do not even hope to talk about it. The pensions they receive are so regular and even more invalid that they are so low that they are far from the poverty threshold. It is unacceptable that people who have worked for 40 years and paid contributions to the pension fund receive unworthy pensions at the age of.” That's part of that statement. That's why I'm interested in: When - and if at all - will you allow disabled persons at least to live and raise all disability pensions at least to the level of the poverty risk threshold of EUR 703 for last year; or at least to the minimum cost of living of EUR 613? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member of Korazi, thank you very much for this question. In the introduction to this reply, I should explain that the disability insurance scheme is part of a pension system based on an insurance principle and that the disability pension is the same as the other pensions, depending on previous pension and disability insurance. The invalidity pension shall be a pension benefit belonging to the insured person at the time of the disability, provided that he, of course, fulfils certain conditions for it. Its height depends on the pension age reached and on the basis of which contributions were paid. Unlike other transfers, such as social transfers that are regulated through the social security system, the creation of an insurance case is not only sufficient to obtain the right to a disability pension, but also pre-inclusion into insurance. It is true, however, that this system is not a pure insurance system, but also based on the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. In the case of invalidity pensions, solidarity is introduced to a higher extent than in the case of old-age pensions, as the law specifies certain specificities in the assessment of invalidity pensions, so that it is not measured only from the pension age achieved, but is added to the system of built-in special guardians, for example, to the period which is supposed to add to each insured person a lost pension. But it's true, and I realize that disability pensions are extremely low. I am approached by many citizens, citizens, beneficiaries of a disability pension and some of their relatives, relatives who point to this pressing problem. This is a systemic problem that must be addressed as well. You have asked very specifically, honourable Member of Koražija, about the level of invalidity pensions, when they could reach the poverty threshold or at least minimum income. We must be aware of the relationship between the amounts of all pensions in the Republic of Slovenia. The dose of disability pension depends on the cause of disability. In the event of damage at work or occupational disease, this pension is measured at 63.5% of the pension base, which means that an individual has a guaranteed right of 40 years, i.e. that he would have had 40 years of retirement without totality. However, if the result of injury outside work or disease in general is not a occupational disease, the percentage determined for the old-age pension is measured according to the supplementary pension age. However, after the end of the transitional periods, according to the preceding novel ZPIZ, this is ZPIZ-2G, at least 40 %. This year, 37% for men and 39% for women due to the transition period. The percentage measured is gradually and slowly rising, but I believe that this is not a sufficient response to this low dose or a low amount of disability pensions. Allow me to mention at this point that the percentage of the 15-year premium, which is the minimum to obtain this right to an old-age pension, is much lower than 29.5%. Here we face the challenge of fully Slovenian pensions, in the relationship between them and, of course, in that the beneficiaries of invalidity pensions who have paid, who are not to blame for their disability, could also be granted a decent amount.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, you have a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u248	Mr. Secretary has now explained the matter very well. But I'm interested in this systemic one that you've just explained: Have you had any dealings with anyone about interdepartmental matters? And I would also like to draw attention to one thing that this coronation has also shown. Being one minister for work and family for other things, I think it's too much for one minister. And I think we should really think in this direction about how to share this ministry so that it can cover better and more comprehensively, because you actually cover as wide an area as few ministers, frankly. I think it would be right that once it happens, thinking also in the direction of dividing or dividing this ministry in certain areas. However, I am interested in what you mentioned earlier: Is there anything more you can tell us about this systemic solution to this problem? Have you made any progress in any negotiations or discussions on these matters? And I would also like to draw attention to one thing: how unfair it is in society. When we talk about the weakest and the most affected, we need to negotiate so much and talk so much. I know Mr. Secretary has a social sense. I know he's gonna try to do something this way, and he's gonna do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr Koražija, for this addition to the question. If I start with your conclusion on the width and complexity of the core that I'm currently running with the team, I can only say that I can agree. This is a very extensive and complex area. This can also be seen in solving or responding and finding solutions to the challenges posed by the covid crisis. For example, to illustrate, the area of my headquarters in Brussels is covered by four Commissioners. So we coordinate with the four Commissioners in my department and are also preparing for the forthcoming Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia and setting priorities and programmes. In this sense, it is very extensive. However, I think that without a good team — and really thank all my fellow workers — this area would be very difficult to lead. However, I think it is because of their dedication and expertise that we are doing well so far. If you don't mind, I might be able to complete my answer on disability pensions. In view of what we have previously found together, the levels of invalidity pensions may be very different. At the same time, it seems important to me to point out that the pension is only one of the forms of social security that is available; and that social protection measures are also available here, which are not linked to previous insurance and in other ways offer an improvement or an opportunity to improve the social situation. In this context, I would in particular point out the right to a protective allowance. Also permanently unemployed and permanently unable to work, i.e. disabled pensioners, are entitled to a protective allowance if they meet the conditions. The amount of the protective allowance for a single person in compliance with these conditions shall be determined as the difference between the amount of the disability pension and the amount of the protective allowance, which shall be EUR 591. Where the beneficiary of a disability pension is not a single person, the beneficiary of a protective allowance shall be identified in relation to the income and social status of the entire household or family. Finally, it may be true that older retired single women are one of the most endangered groups at risk of poverty. And here it is. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, do you have the floor for a motion for a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u252	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. There has also been a great deal of talk about this coalition – the opposition. And in fact, when it comes to such issues that we must all pay attention to when it comes to the weakest in our society, I think it is right that such issues should also be discussed in this national assembly. However, I would dare to quote Mr Cigler King's statement from this very last visit, if I recall when you were in Koroška, when you said about this international day of the fight against poverty. I will quote you: “We will continue to respond actively to the hardships and needs of people and propose measures that reduce poverty.” From this point of view, I propose that a broader debate be held in this national assembly as well. I hope that then some common points will be found, because I think this coronary crisis has just proved that it will be necessary to step up and listen more together; not each one in his own way, in his own way, but together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u253	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2020, in the framework of the votes. Igor Peček will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to John the Bricker King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! On 1 October 2018, social work centres in the Republic of Slovenia were transformed under the Social Protection Act. The reorganisation has merged several social work centres into social work centres covering a larger area; while the centres continue to act as entry points for all users' rights and the area centre also decides on rights. A foreign citizen with a temporary residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia is granted the right to a child allowance. A foreigner who has a residence permit, as well as the right to financial social assistance. In case of suspicion that a person does not actually reside in the Republic of Slovenia and is a permanent residence only fictitiously, the Centre for Social Work shall carry out the findings procedure. In the event that suspicion is confirmed in the verification process, the centre of social work shall notify the administrative unit which is competent to carry out the identification procedure; and only after confirmation that the actual person is not present at the address can the right be withdrawn. On 18 July 2019, the Government of Marjan Šarca set up an inter-resort group to examine the issue of fictitious residence registrations of individuals, and to this end the related abuse of social transfers. According to employees at social work centres where annual rights are exercised, there are many problems – the submission of incomplete applications, the lack of knowledge of Slovenian language in applicants, the problem of obtaining data from official records of movable or immovable property abroad, the lack of data from the Central Register of Residents, the lack of data on the status of foreigners from the country of origin, the problem of meeting the conditions of actual residence at a given address and the consequent abolition of a particular right if it is found that a person is no longer in the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, Mr. Secretary, I am interested in: Is the Interdepartmental Group continuing its work? What is the stage of her work if the work continues? What are the findings of the Interdepartmental Group? Does he have any concrete solutions yet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u255	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u256	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member Patchek, for this question. As you know, a transparent and user-friendly system of social transfers is one of the three main priorities of my mandate. In this area, we will propose a number of measures to increase transparency, but some of the measures that you have already mentioned are already in force. The Ministry of Labour is obliged to exercise control over the use of public funds and has already taken a number of measures to ensure that rights from public funds are properly received. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and Social Work Centres under Article 51 of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds shall obtain free data for persons from existing databases. Unjustifiable receipt of rights from public funds reduces the ability to obtain data on persons and their assets and income from 48 official data records, database managers through the information system of social work centres. In this way, the system or the information system prevents abuses to a certain extent, while at the same time preventing unjustifiable accumulation of rights. A system of communication of changes is established in the information system of social work centres. In accordance with the legislation, social work centres are obliged to establish the existence of circumstances that are detrimental to or in favour of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Labour in the information system of social work centres has established automated monitoring of changes to the so-called flags. When an official record with which this system is linked, i.e. one or more of the 48 which I have previously mentioned, comes to light, or notices the change in the circumstances underlying the decision-making process, the Centre for Social Work shall, after an official duty, re-judge the recognised right. This may include changes such as the exemption from unemployment records, drop-outs, entry into kindergarten, change in schooling status, e.g. death of a person, change in permanent residence and so on. In particular, I would like to point out that the parties are also obliged to report changes in the circumstances affecting rights from public funds. If the party falsely presented or silenced the data, the Centre for Social Work may, within three years of the termination of the right under the official obligation, initiate the procedure and determine the termination of the entitlement to the right, determine the second level or the second period of receipt of the right; and a person may not exercise that right within three months of the completion of this decision. Moreover, the person must also repay the funds which he has received unjustifiably. As you also mentioned the challenge for foreigners in Slovenia with permanent or temporary residences, which are, of course, the basis for certain benefits from public funds, I can say that we are working with the Ministry of the Interior to inform social work centres about the detection and reporting of abuses to administrative units. In case of suspicion that a person in Slovenia is not actually staying, the Centre for Social Work shall carry out a finding procedure in which that fact shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. For example, a survey shall be carried out at the address where the application is made. Social work centres may check the validity of the application data in the competent administrative units and administrative units shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Residence Registration Act, establish a process of determining the actual residence. Where the procedure establishes that an individual at the address where his or her registered residence is located does not reside, his or her residence at that address shall cease to be registered. There are already a number of procedures or possibilities for finding procedures to prevent and eliminate potential abuses of rights from public funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Peček, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, Minister, I thank you for this answer, and we both know that in practice things are going a little differently or much harder. I cannot say otherwise because we have legislation in force, and there is absolutely no doubt that the centres for social work carry out their tasks in accordance with the legislation. You probably know that, within individual local communities, consultative commissions are already in operation, which, by working with several stakeholders – such as the Slovenian Employment Office, social work centres, the Financial Administration – are studying this issue or looking for solutions. You are also probably aware that on 8 October 2020, the President of the Government and the President of the National Assembly received a letter from the Municipality of Kranj, which has major problems in this area, with concrete proposals. A number of 24 concrete proposals have been made. I'm not gonna tell everyone because I don't have time. I'm sure you know them, Mr. Secretary. Among other things, they propose that harmonisation of legislation is necessary, both the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Security Benefits. The letter also states that certain other conditions should be met with regard to the acquisition of these rights. Let me say that in 2019 the country paid EUR 246 million on average to 90,000 people. If we add to this the payment of extraordinary financial social assistance, it is almost 300 million. I want to know: How can you comment on these proposals? Do you think it makes sense to include them in a certain amendment to the law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u259	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for this supplementary question. With proposals and calls from the Municipality of Kranj and others, such as representatives of local communities from other parts of the country, we are informed; however, it is true that the Municipality of Kranj has specifically highlighted the issue and also proposed solutions. I agree with you that we must respond to such calls, that it is our duty to establish and maintain a fair system of enforcement of rights from public funds or social transfers; and that we must take a strong inter-sectoral approach here to solving these problems. We certainly share this determination here. Once again, this is also our commitment and our duty to regulate a more equitable system of social transfers within the framework of our three priorities in this ministry during this term. I may also mention what you highlighted in the first part of the question is the problem of fictitious residence applications. With regard to this issue, it should be clarified that the Residence Registration Act governs the application and cancellation obligation in a manner that pursues the objective of registering individuals at the addresses where they actually reside. Foreigners are only obliged to register a permanent or temporary residence in the event of a prior authorisation for temporary or permanent residence and only in the event of actual residence at a specific address. A fictitious application with a view to the exercise of rights which would otherwise not have belonged to an individual without a registered residence is not admissible. As you said, legislation is relatively good, but it is certainly our challenge to optimise the system in practice and somehow motivate all stakeholders to be motivated to respect this legislation. These measures concern only some aspects of this important issue. We are already preparing a set of measures with colleagues, professional colleagues at the Ministry, to ensure the upgrade of this existing system and to increase transparency on the one hand, while ensuring greater fairness in the direction that you have indicated in the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u261	Would you like a word, Mr. Peček? No, we're moving on. Andrej Chernigoj will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u262	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister! The story of the almost completed home of older citizens in Vrtojba has not moved from a dead spot for 10 years, although the needs for such capacities in the North Sea Region, the Vipavska Valley and the wider part of the world are very large. For 10 years, when the various governments and competent ministries failed to find an appropriate solution in this regard. At the start of the current government, I was approached by the initiative of the citizens of the congregation Šempeter - Vrtojba regarding the home of older citizens in Vrtojba, with which I then addressed your ministry. For many years, citizens have been concerned about the inaction of the left governments and the Minister of Social Democrats in completing their home. They expected a greater involvement of the local Social Democrats' party member and the Minister of Social Democrats, who was responsible for the centre of half the stagnation time, five years from ten. I am glad that things have started to move in the last half year since the work started with the current government and since you took over the competent department, in a time of extremely difficult circumstances due to the spread of covid-19 or invisible enemy disease. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What is the latest information regarding the home of elderly citizens in Vrtojba? Thank you very much for your answers and explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member Montenegro. As you said, the building of the social center of Vertojba as a whole is one story, for which one of the media wrote that after years of stagnation light comes at the end of the tunnel. As an investor, the social centre of Vrtojba began to build a private institution for the construction of a social centre, founded by the Municipality of Šempeter - Vrtojba and a private partner. There are two facilities within this social centre. In the first building 120 beds are provided for the care of the elderly or for the institutional home care of the elderly, while in the second building 38 apartments are provided. The construction started in 2009, but unfortunately ended in 2011 due to poor investment planning. Due to outstanding debts, these properties were transferred to the DUTB, i.e. to a bad bank after the home that owned this building until recently. Here we probably know that the completion of this facility in Vrtojba is also an extremely important priority from my area for this mandate in the coalition contract. This means that the commitment of all coalition partners was strong and that the commitment of my team is also strong and that we are aware of the responsibility to resolve this matter positively. This time, however, I can confirm that at first by a bad bank this facility, the centre of Vrtojba, was sold to the company House Management, the company for investment, management and maintenance of the facilities, d. o. o. I can confirm that, in the context of the invitation to tender, there are thousands of 100 concession places for the provision of institutional protection in the homes of the elderly, that the application was also sent by this provider for the provision of institutional protection in Vrtojba. The role of all applicants in this call will be reviewed in the coming weeks by the expert committee for the review and evaluation of tenders received for the award of concessions for the performance of institutional protection in nursing homes. Following a review by this expert commission, a single decision will be issued to grant concessions for the performance of institutional protection in nursing homes. But what is very important is what you have highlighted; after a decade of stagnation and, we can say, the collapse of this unfinished building. Many commissions have now seen the state of this building. Some parts of the installation, electrical installations and some other things are completely destroyed, they will need to be restored. In view of the state of the matter, and given the dismay of the local population, it is extremely important that, with decisive steps, as demonstrated by the current actions, we take decisive steps to ensure that this story will be in Vertojba without starting, I can say that it is already taking place and that it is going in the right direction. I believe, however, that we are all primarily committed to providing sufficient capacity and responding to the need to protect the elderly in nursing homes in the area of Spiny and the surrounding areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Next up is Robert Pavšič, who will ask the Minister of Defence mags a question. Matthew Tonin and the Minister for Environment and Space Mag. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u266	Thank you very much, chairman. Good evening, everyone! The centre of the Slovenian Army Poček has a long history. According to the profession, it is potentially a sleeping ecological disaster. For the exercise is located in a wide area of the karst world, and all hydrological movements are unknown even to the beauty institute ZRC SAZU. Of course, military activities have an environmental impact. These activities and this influence should be regulated by Slovenian legislation. Let us recall that the Constitutional Court repealed the State spatial plan and ordered the State to regulate it. On 14 August 2018, the Ministry of the Environment announced the initiative and a comprehensive environmental impact assessment was required. Now, at one of the meetings of the Defence Committee, we have learned that it is only this year that Morse has only now issued a call for an opinion. I am particularly interested in the comments of both ministers and the question: Why is it that only now has the invitation to tender been issued if the assessment was required two years ago and according to my information? And for the Minister of Vision, one more question is explicit: What is happening to the water protection regulation for this area? What is the current legal protection of this water source, especially in comparison to or a visa of activities carried out at Poczku? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor to answer. Which one's first? Mag. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u268	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. The adoption of a new State Spatial Plan for the Central Training Centre of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Poček, is necessary by virtue of a decision of the Constitutional Court, which repealed the 2014 State Spatial Plan in force at the end of 2017 due to unproduced or missing professional grounds for the protection of groundwater. In 2018, the Ministry commissioned these professional bases and they were completed and revised in accordance with the rules at the beginning of 2019 and then presented to State agents and local communities. It follows from the professional grounds that the activity of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the exercise does not pose a greater risk than the rest of the activity in this area; however, the professional bases have also proposed measures to actively manage the potential risk of military activities. And at the Ministry of Defence, we are eager to have a dialogue with the Municipality of Postojna, so that these things will be settled and settled as soon as possible. Let me mention that we're interested in cooperation. It was only this year that we reached an agreement with the Brežica municipality, which was allocated EUR 820 000, and an agreement with the municipality of Pivka, which was allocated EUR 380,000, and an agreement with the Municipality of Kočevje of EUR 56,000. For us at the Ministry of Defence, clean drinking water is a priority, which is ultimately also the constitutional right of all citizens and citizens, so we are prepared at the Ministry of Defence to co-finance the infrastructure to provide citizens and citizens of the municipality with clean drinking water, including to co-finance monitoring of this water source. We can also identify an institution, together with a local community, that will control these things. At this point, I would like to give the floor to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u269	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u270	Dear Member! The Ministry of Environment and Space prepared a draft regulation on water protection areas for the municipalities of Bloka, Cerknica, Ilirska Bistrica, Loška dolina, Pivka and Postojna, which was in the public awareness process about one year ago or until September last year. The Regulation was then supplemented by water protection zones for the capture of Knezak 1-4 so that it was published again last August on eDemocracy. The Regulation lays down measures, prohibitions and restrictions on the use of groundwater from groundwater aquifers protected by this Regulation, as well as measures to prohibit and restrict the exercise of activities and behaviour in the coverage area. This also raises a number of open issues, including local communities, which plan their infrastructure management development activities and remain in these areas, and this dialogue is therefore open. In particular, this year, Cerknica is being held intensively with the congregation, and unfortunately also due to the epidemic, some meeting was cancelled in springtime, continued later in the summer, and will continue when the situation allows. The ILO, when preparing the provisions of the draft Regulation, was based on the professional basis produced by the Geological Survey for preparation; including the expert bases of the Geological Survey for the purposes of DNN OVAD. The latter is located in the narrower water protection area 2 and the wider water protection area 3, the area for the coverage of Malni. In particular, it should be pointed out that remedial measures are, of course, not the subject of a water protection regulation, although this was in fact the result of public comments. Sanitation measures have legal basis in the Environmental Protection Act and not in the Water Protection Act. In summary, the preparation of the regulation is in coordination with a number of commentators and also with the projects planned; it is not true that this matter is not compatible in the opinion of the profession. The preparation of the regulation shall take into account the professional starting points which they have drawn up for the purposes of the VAT.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u271	Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I haven't been able to tell anyone that anything about the expertise is done. We now know or know for a long time that there is no State Spatial Plan and there is no Water Protection Regulation. Both documents are still under development, in the process, together, even with some professional starting points. I want to know: What is the current legislation to protect this area? Because if neither the VAT nor the water protection regulation apply, someone has to exercise control there; but if there is no legal basis for it, it cannot. Has any environmental inspection been carried out at Poczk in the meantime? I am pleased that the Minister of Defence is offering the local community's hand with regard to monitoring, which was also the decision of one of the Defence Committee's meetings before your term of office, so that I expect only the speediest realization and the link to this decision adopted by the Committee, I think, even unanimously; and that something will actually start to work in this area of environmental protection, in a credible way. And if the local community is involved or can participate in this process, it is only so much better. There is something to point out, however, that no compensation can account for the potential ecological disaster, I am talking about the potential. No one claimed otherwise, but activities affect the environment. If they did not have an impact, the Constitutional Court would not also require a comprehensive assessment of the environmental impact prior to the drafting of the State Spatial Plan. I only ask Mr Visionak to be more specific until the current situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u273	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u274	Thank you very much. At present, there is also an old regulation in force in addition to the law from the previous country, as far as I have information. After that, we can tell the Member exactly which sub-legislative act currently protects water resources in the area. However, the problem is that whatever it is does not respond to the challenges of time and the development needs of the environment. Many municipalities in this area have their development needs and water resources must be protected on the one hand and, on the other hand, the development of this area should be enabled. This is why a new regulation is being created, which is also closely aligned with local communities. The problem is that, contrary to your efforts by the municipalities or the users of these lands, they seek to make more liberal use of these lands, and it is necessary to weigh protection on the one hand on the one hand, and on the other hand some possibility of using these lands as well as compensation for farmers who have their lands in water protection areas and must be treated differently under the regime than otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u276	Thank you very much. What you have just said would actually be the ideal starting point for a broader debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u277	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, Minister Mag. Tonin wanted another word. I didn't see it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u278	No problem. I'll do it later.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u279	I would only point out that it is essential for the new State Spatial Plan to be adopted as soon as possible, as it will prescribe additional environmental impact monitoring, and therefore, from an environmental point of view, it is also necessary to adopt it as soon as possible. This is in the common interest of us at the Ministry of Defence, at the Ministry of Environment and Space, as well as the municipality of Postojna, that this matter is accepted as soon as possible. Otherwise, the matter is clear and unalterable that only pure drinking water is involved for us. In this direction and in this way, we will also act, which means that all the expert evaluations will be followed, as well as the work up there, so that no water source will be exposed to any pollution or anything else that might contribute to the absence of pure drinking water in the congregation of Persistence. Pure drinking water is a basic axiom, which no one deviates from. As I said, however, we are prepared to agree because it is in our interest that things are clear and transparent; that the local community is involved and that we are jointly carrying out measurements, so that at any time it will be clear how things are.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u280	Now your word, Mr Member, is for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u281	Thank you very much again. Well, I am pleased and wish you as constructive arrangements as possible, not only with the Postojna Congregation, because we know that the water supply from the Municipality of Postojna, which is Malnov, provides water to two municipalities and is also a reserve source for the municipality of Logatec. The matter is truly broad and has a very large public interest. What Minister Vizjak has pointed out is, in fact, a broader debate on what is expected from the entire area. Because some, you said yourself, expect more liberal treatment, especially probably farmers due to the use of herbicides, fertilisers and all that. Water protection areas are therefore designated to protect the integrity of water resources. I believe that the profession here will be able to set the right starting points and users will also set themselves the right limits, of course with the help of the State, but this complexity of the whole process and also the use and placement of the ground as such would be an excuse for a really broad debate. I see that, although the possibility of voting on such proposals is minimal, but if both ministers had taken one step forward and agreed to such a debate, I think we could do a lot of good, especially in terms of restoring confidence in the local people in the national institutions; not only the ministry, but also the Parliament and our role as politicians in this process. I propose that a broader debate be held on this subject, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2020, in the framework of the votes. Jože Lenart will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršku, who is absent, and Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister Zdravko Restoršek! I am very sorry that Dr Jožeta Podgorška is not here today, because it was my intention to ask both of you this question about forest chains. This action plan was adopted by the Government in June 2012. This year, however, this action plan expired. I have pointed out this issue several times in the National Assembly, and I have also asked the previous Minister Pivec this question, and I have never received a concrete answer. So let's not do it again. We know what the goal of the government was then, or both ministries, was to do more with our wealth, our timber, which is the second, third richest forest in Europe, at the added value of bringing back the 20,000 jobs that were lost at that time. I want a very concrete, well-respected minister to come up with an analysis in this forest-forest chain action plan: What was done, what was not done, and why was it not done? But the next thing that bothers me is the next. The last time we met together in Koroška, this was in February, if I am not mistaken, in Prevalje, you have made it very optimistic for Korosks to know that this wooden centre will happen. We know that four wooden centers were meant from this forest and forest chain. But when the Minister of Agriculture comes up, he says it's not possible that the analysis doesn't point in this direction. As an economist, as a financier, I cannot believe that with such a mass of wood that is in Slovenia, in the wood industry that we knew — and I will say it on purpose — even in Yugoslavia, when all these things somehow failed to be established. But there's been a lot of damage. Four squirrels were in Slovenia, there is no more today. The last time I worked together, we did a good job at the time, but we sold it to the worst buyer. I have a number of analyses at hand, including the draft Slovenian Industrial Strategy 2021-2030, a draft of your government. On this sketch it is very well presented, this round of wood processing to final products, with a higher added value, all this has already been done in Koroška. Unfortunately, this is no longer the case today, of course because of poor governance, not just governments, but others. And here I would really like you to give concrete answers and that both ministries will start working well together and that you will make more of this. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u285	Dear Mr Jože Lenart, Honourable National Assembly, Chairman! Thank you for asking. The area of wood is an important priority of work in our ministry. The action plan you are referring to defines wood as the strategic raw material of Slovenia, which still has a lot of untapped potential. The working group, which has been established for this purpose in recent years, has been working under the direction of our ministry and the action plan has contributed to the positive results of the forest and forest chain. Of course, they have been made, as far as I am concerned and my view of the matter, only the first steps in this context have been taken by the Slovenian State Forests society to make – at least I hope – a step towards a higher level of forest management. On the other hand, what was urgently needed is not done to make the wood more processed at home. And it's still happening to us that most of this is being transported out. This story is led by different stakeholders: economy, ministries, universities, public institutions, scientific research institutes, schools, chambers, associations. The government is married once a year. In our ministry, we carried out our activities mainly to promote the timber chain. We have supported a number of positive stories in recent periods in several million amounts, but once again – we do not have a real complete story. We have implemented incentives to increase wood-processing capacities, develop new products, promote demand through promotional activities. Our aim is to further intensify measures to accelerate the development of the wood-processing chain. That is why we have placed the forestry sector as a special chapter in the draft Slovenian Industrial Strategy. We are aware of the development potential and the importance of this industry in terms of positive environmental and economic impacts, in terms of providing more self-sustainment and self-sufficiency, and also in terms of wider social importance. We are also preparing development measures for the wood-processing industry under the new European funds from the Recovery and Resistance Fund and the Multiannual Financial Plan 2021-2027 and other relevant programmes. I think that with these additional resources we are coming up with a tool with which we will also be able to support slightly larger projects. This year, the government adopted a list of strategic projects on which seven wood-processing centres, whose total investment value exceeds EUR 140 million, were also placed on the proposal of our Ministry. Here I would like to say a few things from our point of view that this year the importance of wood has also been recognised by the European Commission. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen spoke at a plenary session of the European Parliament on the priorities of this Next Generation EU instrument on how to move from a CO2-generating sector to a sector that represents a long-standing rise in CO2 through the use of wood in construction. Here I would also like to say that this action plan is really running out, that is what you mentioned, but it was set up on 27 June 2012. By 2020, Les is expected to achieve the key objective of this action plan – creating a market, increasing deforestation, forest management, wood processing, new jobs, and increasing value added for workers in the wood-processing industry. In doing so, it must be said that within this we have a strategic project on the list, which is seven wood-processing centres. When we are talking about wood-processing centres, it must be said that these must be stories that have economic foundations. By the way, we're going to make a buy-in place to collect wood and transport it again across the northern border, it's not enough. We know absolutely what we want to do; I respect what you said, and we will do as much as possible in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u287	Thank you very much. We don't have enough time today to make this a matter that I don't know how to set it wide. But since we are both at the same wavelength, here is the SIDG report, which hardly mentions forest-forest chains, although it should be the first to do so; especially those goals that were set at the time, almost nothing. Although; when you read like that, wonderful results, 20% profits, but damage to so much wood for 270 employees. That's the point of not apologizing. I also have here a report, an analysis done by the National Assembly at the end of 2014, where a very fine comparison with Austria, which is four times the size of us, has so many more inhabitants. After the weight of the forest, it is about a third smaller. According to the number of timber companies, there are about 60% more; as far as wood processing, added value and realisation are concerned, there are 11 times more. These are the data on which to build and some concrete steps to be taken, as you yourself said. A lot of wood, not so much from SIDG, the Slovenian state forests, but from the privates goes up, up and up we support them to have better results, and with us 80,000 unemployed, which could be reduced by at least 10,000. I know we can't get those 20, 25 thousand jobs back because productivity is so much higher today. Today, however, with up to 10,000 employees, we could probably create as much as we once did with 20,000; or we could be comparable to Austria. I'd like to ask you to complete what I've been trying to point out right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u288	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u289	Thank you. Despite the positive developments in the field of wood use in recent years, there has not been a more visible development breakthrough, which will allow ours, we can say, the most important natural raw material we have in Slovenia besides water, to give higher added value. I have said many times that, as far as wood processing is concerned, not exactly, but about as at the beginning of World War II, when we were exporting the cold, then we came in one of the highest development periods to have more than 40,000 people working in the wood processing sector, to the point that we are now on exporting the cold. But still, wood is our strategic raw material. The annual increase is about 9 million cubic meters. We don't cut it, we don't cut it; we only process 1.9 million cubicles of it at home. This is the data for 2019. The information you gave, everyone holds and hurts, it's important to say. It is exported abroad for about 2 million, and then we import — that is additional pain — semi-manufactured products or timber products. And I would like to point out that we have seven wood-processing centres on the list of strategic projects, but when I say center, I'm thinking about famous investors in the back. There may be a misunderstanding between us, some who have a view that we should have a well-known investor who will be able to complete such a project. At least from what we have prepared as a plan, there are three in Koroška. In particular, Koroška – firstly, a production line for investment composites of 41 million with 445 cubic metres per year capacity; Notranska – wood collection and production of glued laminated wood at an investment value of 8 million with a capacity of 20 thousand cubic metres per year; Loška valley – production of noticeable panels at an investment value of 27 million euros with a processing capacity of 400 thousand cubic metres per year; Koroška – wood collection and production of cross-sticked wood at an investment value of 13 million 20 thousand cubic metres per year; Gomilsko – sawn wood project, 40 million, 300 thousand cubic metres per year; Koroška – construction wood production for construction at an investment value of 11 million; Kočevsko – modernisation of the plant and production of sawn wood at an investment value of 1 million 400 thousand euros. This is about projects with which, I believe, we can radically change the story in the field of wood, and the optimism I have since earlier further reinforces the potential of these new European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, do you have the floor for a motion for a procedure? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, this second part of the answer has been as optimistic as you have just said, that is to say, the plans are, and I myself agree that the state cannot set up factories, if we say so in saying so, I agree with that. But just as municipalities do industrial-zone crafts, the country should also set some conditions. I think that this area, as you said yourself, is very important in itself. And since this action plan, which was concluded this June, did not give its epilogue, it is said that it was a done and presented analysis, given that the Government has accepted it and also the National Assembly, I do wish and appeal to you, Minister-in-chief, to this end. That is why I expect you to give your word, too, so that this general, broader debate on this will take place in the National Assembly. But if that doesn't happen, believe me, I am very clear on my part – even because of my Korosci, because I know what we've lost because of the negligence of the country that left Iverka and the wood industry at the time, I sold to the wrong buyer – that, I will say, I want to see the meeting, or else we will try to call the meeting ourselves. But it would be more appropriate to have a general debate, where your ministry would also be involved, you also have a wood department. To come to this and to tell the public in particular what is planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u292	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2020, in the framework of the votes. Željko Cigler will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u293	Dear Mr. Secretary! You have started building the 3rd development axis in the mining area of Pregogovnik Velenje on the section of Gaberka, which is characterised by active and uneven land tenure. This is reflected in the Landowners Forecast and the measurement data of Coal Velenje in the area of the planned route 3 of the development axis, which was created in spring 2019 and was not taken into account in the 2013 State Spatial Plan or in the 2015 environmental agreement, not in the December 2019 construction permit. The documents were not seen either at Dars or at your Ministry, nor were the members of the chosen consortium who would build this road. But we traced him, this document, to the Velenje Coal, which he won't give us if the contents of this document are not of an informational character. I would like to tell you that Coal Velenje is owned by the State as a subsidiary of Holdinga Slovenske Power Plant, which is owned by the State and belongs to the Infrastructure Ministry. The Aarhus Convention, which has been part of the legal system of the Republic of Slovenia since 2004, provides that the signatory countries, i.e. Slovenia, will make it possible for the public to have access to environmental information, especially on the state of the environment. The state and dynamics of the land in the mining area through which the State is now building public infrastructure is a fast road is undoubtedly the state of the environment, as defined in the Aarhus Convention. Mr. Minister, I ask you: What are the rules under which an unreviewed internal document can be the basis for spatial, environmental and construction design and the construction of public infrastructure with public money? How will you act as a resortary minister to respect the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and present information of a public nature to us and to the public, this is a document of the Pregnost of Landowners and the measurement data of the Velenje Coal Mine in the area of the planned route 3 of the development axis, which is in the possession of the Velenje Coal Mine? On what basis, on the basis of what input data is the State Spatial Plan for the location of Gaberka developed? On what basis do designers plan construction work? On what grounds do they intend to change the vault into a viaduct? Who and how will ensure constructiveness, stability of this bearer viaduct if they do not have important data with this document?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u295	Thank you so much for asking. Dear fellow Member! With regard to the issue you are referring to in your question, you have already received a written reply to your letter dated 13 October. We have explained to you that in the framework of the Velenje–Slovenian Section Project, apart from other professional bases, we also take into account the internal survey of Velenje Coal Mines, which relates to the forecast of land tenures and measurements of Velenje Coal Mines in the area of the planned 3rd development axis. You have indicated that Coal Velenje belongs, but this is true, under our resort, but you know how corporate governance is shared in the Republic of Slovenia. It is not the ministry that says this to the coal mine and you must do it, but we also have the Slovenian State Holding and all the other authorities that are competent in the direction of corporate governance, not the Ministry of Infrastructure. It was also decided by this decision of the Ministry on 26 August 2020 that the Ministry should not have access to this alleged controversial study. The Ministry has only a technical part of the laboratory, i.e. a new road link from Velenje south to Slovenia Gradec south connection, a project solution on this sub-section where the results of this study or research by Pregogovnik Velenje were also used as an expert basis. In addition to additional geological research, Elaborat was also the basis for a change in the project solution in this road section. The request for information of a public nature or an insight into this study was also transmitted to the Ministry by another investor, not only on your part. However, since the Ministry does not have this document, the decision of the Information Officer was issued which rejected the applicant's request, as it was found that the body with which it did not have the document could not intervene. And even from your previous question until now, this document is not in our possession. If you're saying he's on Velenje Coal, then you have to go into a completely different procedure. I am not the owner of Coal Velenje, but because of this we have here the Slovenian State Holding, which is under HSE and so on, the structure. It is not the Ministry that directly sets up the Coal Supervisors Velenje, which would have a direct impact on Coal Velenje, but here is also the Slovenian State Holding. I agree that it is the obligation of the debtors to provide access, as far as we are concerned, only to existing information, but I am not obliged to give you data that I do not have at all because I cannot give them. But I can help you in such a way that if you need to write one letter to Slovenian State Holding and so on, but I am available to help. There is no reason in this professional matter for the Ministry, anyone at the Ministry to conceal a document we do not have. We do not have this document. This means that the criteria of materialised form are not met in a particular case. If we had this document, we would have handed it over to the Information Officer, because we don't have it, but we can't. You know how Velenje Coal is managed – through the Slovenian State Holding. And that's where I think we'll be leading the process to this document. I can't let myself in professionally, I trust the profession. That's the last time I've answered, and it's going to be like this in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u296	Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u297	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you haven't answered anything. But this is all I want to remind you of. From the available documentation, more precisely from the Master's Department of Andrej Pal from the Faculty of Natural Engineering in Ljubljana 2017, it is clear that he did calculations to keep Gaberk's people active until 2038, Minister, and not to be overlooked until 2041! I'm asking: How was the Gaberk area where you are now building a fast road repaired between 2013 and 2020 so that active owners 18 years before the professionally rated consolidation suddenly no longer threaten the construction of a fast road and today the fast road is built through the occupied territory of the Republic of Slovenia? The same negative assessment of the inadmissibility of this section for the construction of fast roads through Gaberk was made in 2008 by the Minister of Environment and Space of the first Janšev government, Janez Podobnik, when he replied to the question from Velenje: "Knowing the effects of demolition processes on the surface, Premogovnik Velenje, d.d., has produced a forecast of the expansion of the effects of mining coal on the surface. It follows from these that, in the case of past downturns, further possession is envisaged in the area west and north of Velenje, to the eastern edge of Šostanja,” listen now, “in particular, the area of possession will spread north towards Gaberkam.” Your document is available in the archives of the National Assembly, where I got it. So, you, Minister Jernej Vrtovec, in fact the Minister of the Third Janševa Government for Infrastructure, buried the first shovel for the 3rd development axis right in the place for which Prime Minister Janez Podobnik, on the basis of mine analysis, found and decided that it was inappropriate to build the road. And I would say that, and all the data that is obviously hiding from the public and the Members point to how dangerous the situation is when public funds for public infrastructure are invested in a building that is spatially and environmentally unthinkable and constructionally dangerous. Minister, this is the essence of the question, and you are as a minister who, as previously asked by your colleague, Minister Vizjak, you are the initiator [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u299	This supplement concerns what does not concern my ministry at all, but I will say this: we would like to have everything, good infrastructure, connections, everything, but when it comes to some placement, either route or anything, we would have changed things 15, 20 years ago. It's not working. It will be necessary to decide whether we want to have infrastructure or whether we want to complicate things over and over again. You know how long it takes to put into space, fight against civil initiatives and also the Public Procurement Act to get to certain infrastructures. I'm not asking you anything, I'm just, look, I'm not an expert, and neither are you, that you can decide where the property is, where the road is problematic and where it's not, so we have experts in this country who have put up the road, who have paid for it, who I believe are doing their job well. We ask that our answers be based on empirical evidence, on studies — why? Because that's what you see in the case of a covidus, when he falls for false prophets through Facebook, through other networks, it's said, we have people everywhere who get to know each other. My job is just to build as much as possible for the money we have in the budget through European funds to keep things moving. But I'm not going to be the one who's going to be the manual or the brake when we have the chance to build as many as possible. And as for the 3rd developmental axis, I am pleased and proud that the first shovel was planted in my mandate and that we finally ended this Gordic knot, which lasted for more than 15 years, and so long the Koros and the inhabitants of the Shale Valley have waited for this road and are waiting for it. My job is to move things forward. I'm not going to change things that are already decided, because then we're going to be spinning around in circles, not taking important steps.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u300	Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u301	I will make a procedural proposal for this matter to be dealt with at a future meeting of the National Assembly. Mr. Minister, the Members want to help you. This is an important national project. Koroška actually needs this fast road and it needs to be taken to it. However, objective circumstances are such that the roads there simply cannot be taken. I have listed the data and also the analyses of Velenje Coal Mines, from which I come. I have also received information from Dars today that there has been no risk of possession on this route. Then please tell me why they went to change the route of the road so that the road runs through a covered tunnel into the overpass. And there's land all over the place. See, perhaps Minister Janez Podobnik did not speak in vain when he replied to our late fellow Member in 2008. He referred to the analysis of Velenje Mine. Mr Minister, in this way, if the government works like this, Koroška will never reach this rapid link. I think you have all the competence to order, immediately order a revision of this part of the route to see if there are valid comments not only of our Members – we come from expert data, from warnings to the professional public that the road here simply cannot go. I ask that the National Assembly address this issue at its future meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2020, in the framework of the votes. Mateja Udovč will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u303	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister! In September 2017, the Automotive Vehicle Charges Act was adopted, introducing a duty on decommissioned vehicles. The levy was introduced with the aim of preventing any abuse associated with the cancellation of a vehicle from transport and on the basis of foreign experience and recommendations of the Court of Auditors which carried out a review of the system of management of used vehicles. The obligation to pay the duty shall first occur after the expiry of one year of the vehicle's cancellation and shall be paid every year for 10 years from the last cancellation of the vehicle. The law in Article 16, paragraph 7, lays down the conditions under which the obligation to pay the duty on a registered vehicle shall cease. That is to say, if the liable person submits: a certificate of destruction of the vehicle in accordance with the regulations governing the protection of the environment; a police record showing that the vehicle has been stolen; evidence that the vehicle has been registered in another country; or an export customs declaration confirming the exit of the vehicle from the customs territory of the Union. In practice, with regard to the payment of the duty on checked-out vehicles, sellers of used unregistered vehicles are faced with a problem, as the sale of such a vehicle itself does not ensure that they cease their obligation to pay the tax on a registered vehicle. In fact, these sellers have no assurance by the buyer that the vehicle will be registered or transferred to destruction. As a result, several times the seller of such a vehicle still remains liable for payment of the duty, even though the vehicle is no longer actually available. Moreover, it is even possible that sellers, despite having a vehicle re-registering certificate, must pay this duty because the competent authorities do not take this fact into account when issuing decisions. That's why I want to know: Is there an amendment to the Law on Automobile Charges, in such a way that the obligation to pay a duty is terminated even if the debtor submits a copy of the invoice paid or the purchase contract to the administrative unit or to the holder of the public authority, or in such a way that the sellers of the vehicles used would not be liable to pay the duty on checked-out vehicles? What will you do to ensure that sellers no longer receive decisions on the payment of this duty in cases where registered cars are sold and reregistered within a period shorter than one year? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u305	It's a very mid-term question, because it's really a problem, not just a topical one, but it's been dragging for a long time. But it's not one layer. It is also noted from the complaint claims concerning the duty on checked-out vehicles at the Ministry that sellers of used unregistered vehicles do not properly implement the whole process of changing ownership of a registered unregistered vehicle. The change of ownership must be made in the register of registration vehicles managed by the Ministry. However, it must be based on this record that the ownership of the registered vehicle was transferred to another person. The owner of the vehicle shall also be bound by the law itself, the Motor Vehicle Act, where it is expressly stipulated that any change in the data on the marketing authorisation must be notified to the registration organisation within 15 days. The failure to comply with this obligation is also defined by law as an offence for which a fine is imposed. The conclusion of the sales contract alone is not sufficient, but it is also necessary to change ownership of registered vehicles. The owner of the vehicle is a person who is also registered in the register of registered vehicles. In order to avoid the difficulties faced by the owners of the registered vehicles, particular attention should be paid to the following. First, by signing off the vehicle from the transport, it becomes the owner of the registered vehicle liable to pay the duty on the registered vehicle. Second, when a registered vehicle is sold, it is also necessary to regulate the ownership of a registered vehicle to a new owner, otherwise this duty applies to the registered vehicle in advance. It is therefore necessary to pay this duty for the registered vehicle further. A copy or change of ownership of a registered vehicle may be made, as I have already mentioned, by registration organisations. The application shall be accompanied by the following evidence: last traffic licence; instrument of modification of the ownership of the vehicle, if any; certificate of destruction of the vehicle for the used vehicle, in accordance with the environmental rules; evidence of the identity of the parties to the procedure; evidence of the registration of the place, for example, to the competent police administration and so on. And what doesn't matter. In the event of a change of ownership, the identity of natural persons shall also be determined by checking the EMHO and the address of the place of residence and the vehicle VIN number, which is the identification number, as required by the law itself, the identity of the seller and the buyer, the authorised person of the registration organisation. When a vehicle is cancelled due to a change of ownership, it is also mandatory to record the new owner’s data on the registered vehicle, whether or not it registers the vehicle immediately or not, otherwise it is not possible to sign off the vehicle. The statement of identity of natural persons shall be entered in the register of registered vehicles as a note in the vehicle subject to change of ownership and shall be clearly and clearly indicated from this note of the identification of the seller and the buyer, whose identity was then verified. The procedure for determining the identity of natural persons shall also be carried out in the case of a change in ownership of an already cancelled vehicle. The proposal that the obligation to pay the duty should also be terminated if the debtor has submitted a copy of the invoice paid or the purchase contract to the administrative unit or public authority, or in such a way that the sellers of the used vehicles would not be liable to pay the duty on the checked-out vehicles, is, in such a form as we now have legislation, somewhat difficult to accept directly. One debate needs to be opened on this. Why? Because the owner of the registered vehicle must regulate the change in ownership of the registered vehicle in the manner prescribed by the Motor Vehicle Act. Here we must first change the primary legislation, the Motor Vehicle Act, and then we can think about it. If the sellers of vehicles within the year strictly regulate only the change in ownership and supply all the evidence, they will not receive certain items.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I think we understand that the problem is complex. Perhaps the only solution would be to make it easier to change ownership in the registration record. It is said that the change in ownership itself could be made on the basis of a sale contract or on the basis of an account, but not by the buyer and seller together to the administrative unit or to the authorised organisation, in order to then make a change of ownership. Maybe it's thinking this way. I believe that all vendors of such vehicles want, in particular, easier to change registration records. Probably a lot sooner than to avoid paying the tax. Because the problem is that the seller usually sells itself and administrative units have very limited time, electronic commerce in this area is not possible. The seller may, however, attest to the fact that the contract has been certified by the notary, which means that the costs and the reinstatement of the job, together with the purchaser of such a vehicle, are again incurred. Maybe just thinking this way, maybe if you have any comment on the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u309	This needs to be changed because then we will make life easier for many people who sell vehicles. Each of us has ever sold this, and you know what the procedures are like, so that we all go to the administrative units and so on. But there is one more thing to mention. Unfortunately, in practice, according to the data we have, the sellers of checked-out vehicles do not hold the time limits set for changing ownership and delivering evidence of registration of vehicles abroad, for example. They therefore receive decisions on the payment of the duty on the cancelled vehicle. So, they don't stick to all the procedures. That's a fact. However, if we want to debirocratise society, one of the important things is also the change in this law and these procedures with regard to the cancellation itself. That's a fact. Because there is no need for two people to still physically go to the administrative unit in the digital age and wait and look for and see when the administrative unit will be open to make all the necessary changes. I fully agree with this and it is a very good initiative to change the law and procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Ambassador Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojsa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u311	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Alesh Hoys! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia Committee on State and Public Affairs, which you are chairing, has been given the authority in the past to provide, at the last stage, a substantive review and a decision-making process, documentation related to the completed contracts of the national film programme operators. This documentation goes before your committee through four preliminary reviews. First, the team that shoots the film must pay the external auditor, then the documentation of the review of the Slovenian Film Centre with which the financing contract is concluded. The Slovenian Film Centre submits the documentation for review to the Ministry of Culture, and then to the Ministry of Finance, which also reviews the documents, confirms them and then submits them to the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for State Administration and Public Affairs, which re-examines the documentation and submits it to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for decision. In addition, the previous government has classified audiovisual creation from the subsidy programme among the programmes requiring the preparation of identification documents for an investment project called DIIP, which in practice means that any slightly more difficult film almost requires documentation and procedures as necessary for the construction of a second track. All of this shows that the previous governments have extremely complicated bureaucratic procedures and have by no means taken into account the principle of subsidiarity, which is, for us, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, one of the fundamental values in policy-making and governance of the country. The content of individual projects for which contracts are concluded by the Slovenian Film Centre should, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, be under the supervision of the Slovenian Film Centre and the Ministry of Culture, and not subsequently the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for State Organisation and Public Affairs. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Will you take advantage of the opportunity and opportunity to assist in debirocratising Slovenia and simplify procedures for the validation of documentation of audiovisual projects that have been unknowably complicated by past governments? When will the government implement the principle of pacta sunt servanda, which means when will payment follow the work done under the 2018 and 2019 contracts? Thank you very much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, Mr Horvath, thank you very much for this question. The content of the question itself has already been presented in some of the replies sent today. Thus, we were able to listen to the procedure presented by Minister Simoniti and later by the Minister of Finance, on the subject itself, so I would focus more on the procedure or on what you have actually said, on the de-de-merocracy to which this government has committed itself to a great extent. Hold everything you've said. It is true that, after all these procedures, there is still a matter for the State Regulation Committee at the end. The work for this committee shall be prepared by the General Secretariat of the Government and all that is indisputable or included on this committee shall be considered by the Committee. However, sometimes it is in fact that, even on the committee itself, it is found that things are still inconsistent, that individual ministries are opposed to what they are opposed to, so, in fact, the matter can be stopped again, even if it has already gone through all of this, as you yourself have said. Undoubtedly, there will be a sieve at the end of either this committee — in fact, this committee is not a sieve; in the end, however, the government remains, irrespective of all the contracts signed. Because we need to be aware that the government's money is ultimately contributing to these specific films, so it comes from the state budget. As was the case in the first phase or in the spring detentions of the temporary implementation of the budget, when the financing of the already signed contracts, which received co-financing for the pluralisation of the media, was delayed, I am sure that the matter will be settled here in a relatively short period of time. We're talking about the release itself. As far as debirocratisation is concerned, I must say that at least in our ministry we took it quite seriously. I can say that we are currently in a stage where we are preparing so-called e-procedures to sign all contracts. Unfortunately, it's not in our ministry yet. I remember that this was actually introduced at the Ministry of Defence in 2012. He's not here yet. This will be one very important thing that will largely debirocratise our business. Another issue is the preparation or development of an application that will be linked to public procurement. We will set matters there so that, at any time, both the guardian of the contract and the management of the ministry will have an overview of what is currently ordered, the stage of the contract, whether the contract is executed or whether the complaints are made. Of course, at any time, both the Minister and everyone else in charge of the ministries will have the opportunity to see and also the possibility of an appropriate response. As far as what I think is very or almost the most important right now is the so-called debirocratisation that we have engaged in is about payout. We have, as you know, over 8,000 employees in the police force. Our proposal was, given that an extremely large number of hours are spent every month in salary calculations for the preceding month, given that wages are paid on the fifth of the month, to postpone payment, which is still in line with the law, to make payments on the 15th of the month, which means that all those charges for the preceding month would be dropped and the payment sheet for each policeman would in fact be clear every month, which means a reduction in the costs of thousands and thousands of hours of unnecessary settlement and, of course, additional red tape on police administrations. I must say that we have given this proposal to the world, i.e. to a forum, namely Mr Simic, who is leading the world for debarcation. The issue was absolutely supported and I must say that we have the first preliminary results or the consensus of the unions that agree to such extension. Which means that for police officers at the end of the month to get a clean payroll, they know exactly how much they've earned in the past month, and in some ways we're reducing thousands and thousands of hours of extra, unnecessary costs. However, we will probably do so in the spring months, in order to help the liquidity police in some way, which means that during that month we would pay the regress and salary of the 15th in the month, which means that the police would have no difficulty in liquidity or paying the bills.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answers. I am pleased that in my question you have felt a great desire, because, last but not least, this is our coalition's project, which is a debirocratic project. At the same time, the background of my oral question is also put to you through the prism of the economy. You, Mr. Minister, know our economic agenda, know our attention to the small and micro economy, which is also an important creative sector within culture and art. Audiovisual content is a central cultural property in the 21st century because it is very communicative and has an outstanding reach among the audience. Among all artistic and cultural activities, the audiovisual sector is the most economically oriented. Economically oriented. This is proved by serious economic studies both in Slovenia and elsewhere in Europe and in the world, so we should all finally be able to put it at the heart of our thinking when we are talking about the successful present and future of Slovenian culture and economy. Specifically. The audiovisual sector as an economic sector in Slovenia contributes between €50 million and €60 million to gross domestic product. Only 10% of this money is a state investment in artistic and genreally more difficult audiovisual projects, international cooperation, cultural heritage, education and infrastructure. So I am pleased that we are both aware that in this area this content will actually have to take some concrete de-democratic steps. Thank you for any comment on my complementary implementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I don't really have an answer to this, because everything you've said is actually a naked fact. In fact, the things you mentioned can be read in numbers, i.e. in statistics, even in the realisation of everything that has been done in the past in this area. However, I must say that the audiovisual part itself, or this industry to a large extent, at least to my mind, is still in some way extremely connected to the budget itself. Here, I believe that the opportunities are also on the free market, not just the commitment to the state budget or the municipal budgets, which, last but not least, appeared through the calls mentioned by the Minister of Culture and were linked to the co-financing of the media. At that time, it was often said that they did not have any other income, and later it turned out to be a much wider possibility of income. It's the same here. Of course, I am aware that it is not possible to cut things off at once, that those things that have been contractually determined and promised or, I would say, concluded co-financing should be carried out to the end. I'm sure it will.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u318	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. The first is Boštjan Koražija, who will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Mags a question. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u319	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. In the beginning, I will read and remind all of us, or remind us of some of the fires that occurred at waste dumps in Slovenia. In July 2013, there was a huge fire at Gorenje Surovina in Maribor. This fire lasted several days and the damage was more than EUR 3 million. In May 2017, it burned in the Upper Kemis. We all know of the consequences, the ecological disaster, which then happened or happened at Vrhnika. Only two months later, in July 2017, it burned on the depot of Ecosystems in Stock at New Town. In May 2019, which was, I will say, a very black year in relation to fires at landfills of waste, burned at the waste of the publicus municipal company in the Municipality of Command. Last year also in Ruša, and worst of all, even five times – in the case of two different companies dealing with waste disposal or waste sorting – in Lenart Municipality. I also recall the statement made by Mayor Kramberger at the time, and he was completely dismayed or completely dismal, how it is possible that this could happen five times in his congregation or in his city. Then I would point to the area from which I come, called Lower Podravje. Last year, May 2019, it was burned in the centre for hazardous waste management in Kidrič and this year it is unfortunately CERO Gajka or Gajka Waste Management Centre on Ptuj. These matters are a very serious problem, or some type of indictance, what happens at these landfills of waste, so many fires or many self - incinerations. What's the problem? Is it due to improper waste disposal, such as batteries, chemicals, and the like, or could it even be something else? I therefore have the following questions for the Minister: What about monitoring the operation of landfills? How many regular and extraordinary controls have been carried out this year and even in the previous year? What are the findings of the controls at the landfills where the fires occurred? What are the most common causes of these fires? Can you tell me the root causes of these fires? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u321	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question on your part: “At the 21st regular meeting of the National Assembly, I will ask you an oral question on safety at landfills of waste.” Now you want specific information from me on the number of inspections, the causes of irregularities. Of course, I will be happy to answer the written question where you will ask it. But today I'm going to tell you some numbers. The number of fires at landfills or waste warehouses was in the years you listed, 2017 and 2018 also something in 2019, so in 2019 we began to closely monitor these debtors and over the year 240 debtors were inspected, of which 10 of them no longer operate. Environmental inspectors found violations against 88 debtors, issued 41 decisions and 56 warnings, and also established 12 criminal proceedings and one executive proposal. I believe that, as a result, there have been slightly fewer of these unloving events this year. Last year, the Regulation on the storage of solid fuel waste in the open air was also adopted, which will significantly regulate and lay down new conditions for this area. It is true, however, that there has been considerable difficulty with regard to the feasibility of this Regulation in view of the public hearing and also the comments. Therefore, the transitional period is three years. This Regulation was adopted last year and will be fully implemented 14. 9. 2022. I basically told you what was in charge or what my predecessors did because it was in 2019. But personally, when I took over this area, I faced full landfills, especially municipal waste packagings, because, at the end of last year, environmental protection was allowed and waste packaging companies were no longer able to dispose of all waste packaging. This has accumulated and in the summers has been a great threat to the ignition of this, so we have already prevented this further accumulation within the covidpack and by public means have saved the thing so that the warehouses are empty, and this will significantly reduce the possibility of fires at these warehouses. So, on the one hand, there was a lot of tighter inspection, and the country has exceptionally regulated the export of this waste packaging, which was only for this year, in the future it will be the debtors who place the packaging on the market. A regulation has also been adopted which significantly exacerbates the conditions for the storage of waste fuel in the open.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u323	Thank you for the first part of the answer. I will refer to the Regulation on the storage of solid fuel waste in the open. So, in three years. You're actually already checking the implementation of this regulation, aren't you? Are you going to wait for this right now to check for this three-year term, during this period, this Regulation? [[…]] Oh, okay, okay. In fact, there is another problem that also arises because of this. The thing is, you know, all the people who live by these dumps, normally, fight for their health, for the health of their families. There are many cases of self-inflammation or contamination of drinking water in fires on these landfills. I'm also curious: What measures have been imposed on depositors? What sanctions or penalties did they receive? You mentioned the number before, and then I will ask you in a written question from the Member States to give me an even more detailed answer. In this regard, I am also interested in: Do you even have any information on your own which penalties have been issued for non-compliance with the law? Is it being considered in the direction of making further changes in legislation? Since you have also talked further about packaging, which is simply to be arranged, properly deposited or in any way organic and sustainablely sorted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u325	Dear Member, we share with you the concern that these unloving events do not occur and cannot come. That is why, of course, we will continue to exercise stricter control. I believe that the result of surveillance is also that there were no major problems this year. You mentioned one case on Ptuj, or there were no cases. And that's why we're going to continue with this surveillance, which is the best wedding to make it quick and clean up irregularities. With regard to the individual categories of irregularities, it is difficult for me to answer you at this time and I will be happy to answer you with a written question, where the inspection will also prepare a report on this. However, as far as the regulatory regime is concerned, this week it will be considering the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, which introduces the extended producer responsibility when it comes to waste packaging, which is too often the cause of these fires. We are also preparing a regulation that will be additional – or the regulation is already under public scrutiny. This Regulation needs to be notified to the European Commission and is expected to be adopted by the end of the year. It extends the responsibility for payment of the packaging for all those who place the packaging on the market, not only those who give more than 15 tonnes. In short, we also want this extended producer's responsibility to be both financially and organisationally responsible for those who place waste or waste packaging on the market. Again and again, for the first time, these wastes would be less and less, if they were to be reusable, recycled, reuse, and only at the end of the day that it was either thermal treatment or deposit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u327	As I have told the Minister of Labour and Family before, I think it is right, even when the coalition has repeatedly called on the opposition to cooperate, I also call on the coalition to cooperate with the opposition, even when it comes to such important issues as environmental pollution or waste disposal. The fact is, in recent years or decades, we have marked this planet with more than some important things than waste itself. For this reason, I would like a broader debate to take place in the National Assembly. I will also ask the Minister and then send him a written question. Given that he was ready to respond, I am looking forward to the answers that we will be able to continue to apply certain things in this direction, as well as to improve the quality of life, especially for those citizens and citizens who live in these landfills and have many legitimate fears for their lives, for their health. This also leads to more and more such civil initiatives. It is therefore right to draw attention to the problems that arise in the local environment, even when it comes to environmental pollution.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2020, in the framework of the votes. Matey Udovč will ask the Minister for Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u329	Dear Minister, in August 2019 Minister of Culture Zoran Poznic, Mayor of Žirovnica Leopold Pogačar and Director of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests Irena Majcen signed a contract for the purchase of real estate with owners Janez Ark and Tanja Pangrec. It is a property in the immediate vicinity of Prešeren's birth house in Vrba. The Ministry and the municipality decided to purchase the property because they recognized the possibility of carrying out long-standing efforts to ensure uninterrupted access to the monument of national importance in Vrba. This is Prešeren's birth house, village lipa and St. Mark's church. In the municipality Žirovnica they want to train and use the facilities for the presentation of cultural heritage, history and development of cultural tourism in the area. The municipality has already prepared a document for the identification of the investment project, Revitalisation of the facility Vrba 1, a multi-purpose facility within Prešeren's birth house in Vrba. It also prepared an invitation for promoters to enter into a public-private partnership for the revitalisation and start-up of the inn and other activities in the building owned by the municipality. For a successful presentation of the time in which Prešeren lived and worked, with culinary and current customs they wish to revitalize the facility in the restaurant of the highest quality. The matter is also important in terms of the coordinated operation of the municipality and the state, since this part of Vrba is declared a monument of State importance. Prešeren's birth house is managed by the Zirovnica Institute of Tourism and Culture on the basis of a contract with the Ministry of Culture. If Prešeren’s birth house, the Lipa and the church of St. Mark were declared a monument of State importance, it would be right of the State to help the municipality and to take advantage of its readiness to co-finance in a protected area. All of this is extremely important if we want to develop, represent and preserve our cultural heritage in Vrba. A working group was set up at the Ministry of Culture to successfully implement the project and coordinate activities between the Ministry and the municipality, which is very resilient and inactive. For more than six months, no activity has been carried out in this area. On the other hand, the Ministry of Culture of the project for the restoration of purchased facilities owned by them has not included it in the development programme plan. I'm asking you: At what stage is the arrangements procedure for that facility in the title Vrba 1? Why is the working group you run at the Ministry so responsible, incompatible and inactive? Do you have in the budget the funds to revitalize the Willow facility, which you own? How will you cooperate with the congregation of Žirovnica and coordinate your activities in the future? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u331	With the problem that you are now familiar with the general public in the National Assembly, I must say that I was only made aware in the summer in a more comprehensive way. So I didn't know this problem before. I would answer you like this in this regard. Already in 2019, as you said, so at the beginning of last year there is a mag. Zoran Poznic appointed an expert committee to prepare the content of the project competition for the design of the integrated arrangement of the memorial area of the birthplace of Francet Prešerna, Vrba 1. The Commission’s task was to prepare, within one year, a starting point for an architectural and landscape-architectural solution, or to prepare a professional basis for a public competition for such solutions. The five-member commission appointed two employees at the Ministry of Culture, three by the Municipality of Žirovnica or the Municipal Public Institute for Tourism and Culture and one member by the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage of Slovenia. As far as I am aware, the Commission has not completed its work at this scheduled time, nor has it submitted any proposals to the Ministry's management for the extension of the mandate or for the termination of its operations. Is the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage in the Summer, 22 / 22 6. 2020, developed a precautionary framework for an idea plan for regulating this area. In it he stressed that the purchased house Vrba 2, together with the economic building, represents the rounded whole of the mountain farm home, which consists of all the typical elements: a residential building, an economic building with a yard, a garden with a well and a orchard. This offers a real possibility that the surrounding area of the home will also be reopened for visitors to Prešeren's birth house and that the eastern part of the village of Vrba will be properly arranged. The Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage also proposes that basic bases, geodesic and architectural recordings, plans of municipal waters and the like should be obtained before the competition is conducted. At the same time, to draw up a plan for the management of the monumental whole, part of which is also a plan of conservation works and a plan for the interpretation of the entire area. Thus, the Ministry of Culture has obtained basic guidelines to regulate the area of the monument and the contents of the birth house itself, which is supposed to become an exclusive monument and from which all other content is excluded. An invitation is also being drawn up to obtain the idea of a monument and an area arrangement that will be in line with the cultural protection conditions of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Unfortunately, due to the retention of the budget during the pandemic, i.e. in those spring months, until summer, it was not possible to order the necessary professional grounds, and we certainly expect the financial cooperation of the municipality of Žirovnica. This is how we anticipate the publication of the invitation to tender in the following year, especially in view of what we have now adopted in these days. This year, we were able to clean up the area where we acquired certain property in Vrba, obtain protection guidelines and are in preparation for the invitation to tender. We will also propose to the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage to include in its work programme for 2021 the preparation of a management plan for the Prešeren’s birthplace. We will also propose that the modern interpretation of Prešeren's birth house be included in the promotion programme of Prešernovo Zdravljica, which this year acquired the mark of European cultural heritage. We therefore wish that the story of a successful and modern way presented to the most important monument in Gorenje concludes in the shortest possible time, to the satisfaction of the Vrba locals and all those who are Prešeren as a symbol of Slovenia and as a great poet close to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u333	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answers. I am pleased that we will continue with the project we started in the previous composition of the government. I wonder if I've understood you correctly: Has the Commission set up at your ministry stopped working or will the Commission be able to continue working? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u334	The Commission will certainly be able to continue its work. I do not see any problems in this committee, except, of course, that it was relatively unsuccessful this year. Some people who haven't shown too much in the ministry lately, and I also have this feeling when we look back, we've changed, so we're going to have a commission with some of the people who are at the Ministry, too. But there is another problem or something positive. As you yourself mentioned, and I myself mentioned that part of the area is owned by the Ministry of Culture, which has a certain influence in this area. I am inclined to suggest that the whole area, which is now a comprehensive and comprehensive treatment and what you yourself have said, also involves certain guest services and similar matters, which would allow this matter to be competent itself, one would say, to be able to maintain. I would see for myself, in fact, in the same pattern, but only in the same pattern as that of the Bled castle, which we handed over decades ago and more to the municipality, in order to actually put the entire area in charge or to take over the entire area into the administration of the municipality itself and then freely dispose of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Dusan Šisko will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u336	The Honourable Minister and everyone else present! From the field we receive numerous complaints against the work of the Labour Inspectorate. Inspectors monitor very closely the wearing of masks, the setting of disinfectants, the distance between persons, the ventilation of spaces. They control and deepen the craftsmen, merchants, innkeepers. So the ones that have already been most affected by the epidemic. I thought the Labour Inspectorate would focus on the problems of working law, not on masking and disinfecting. According to the government, there are still over 110 000 workers without this year's regression, more than 60 000 workers are still waiting for the 2019 regression, and we are at the end of 2020. Workers still don't get their salaries in writing, this year a lot of workers have been fired, and they don't know how or why. As long as it's the biggest problem that someone doesn't wear a mask, and not that workers don't get paid or regressed, then the Labour Inspectorate completely missed the purpose of its existence. They're focused on the wrong area. That's why I want to know: What instructions does the Inspectorate have for work on safety and health surveillance at work? Did you, Minister, or did the government give any additional instructions or directions to the inspectorate for tighter controls?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u338	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr Šiško, for this important question. Let's get down to business. With regard to the statement on the number of workers still waiting for the 2019 and 2020 regressions, I would first suggest that if and who has any specific cases of data to violate the labour legislation, they should be informed of the competent authorities to report this to an inspection which can then also deal with matters. With regard to complaints against the work of the Labour Inspectorate, I would also suggest that if you have any specific cases because you have said that you are receiving complaints to inform the Inspectorate that you can also deal with them. However, if, on the other hand, the non-conclusion of the debtors, employers with the measures granted, they also have such legal protection in the form of a complaint against the measure issued or in the form of a request for judicial protection. While the inspectorate's data show that in an estimated 15 000 inspections a year, between 20 and 30 complaints are received, which is quite small, at the work of inspectors. However, requests for judicial protection are only received for about 2% of the measures issued. The powers and powers of inspectors are defined in the Inspection Control Act. This applies practically to all inspectorates. These rules set out the key bases and principles for the work of inspectors, in addition to the Law on Offences and Material Regulations under the supervision of the Inspectorate. If I focus on the safety and health controls at work that you have specifically raised in your question, inspectors have priority over the protection and protection of workers' lives. In the last period, i.e. during the crown period, controls pay particular attention to preventing the spread of coronavirus. This is also extremely important in the light of the fact that all the activities of our ministry and government and the broader focus are to enable and ensure the best possible and as smooth a functioning of the economy as possible. The jobs we protect by this are invaluable in maintaining our condition and, finally, by measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we have mitigated the decline in GDP. Therefore, it is also very important for inspectors to check and pay great attention to preventing the spread of coronavirus. Specifically, what you have highlighted – the use of protective masks, the provision of distance, the presence of disinfectants. I believe that even so, in the first wave of the epidemic, we did not have an outbreak in the economy, but even now that we were in the second wave or in the interim period, there were no major stories that would endanger the wider economy. It was about individual stories, but for now, thank God, they've ended happily. However, I must point out that the inspectors are both repressive and advisory, and this is also my doctrine or I myself agree to such an operation of inspection. They do so depending on the situation on the ground and the situation actually established. The law also provides that, in addition to carrying out inspections, it may provide professional assistance to employers and workers in respect of the implementation of laws and other provisions of collective agreements and general acts under its jurisdiction. So I understand that some are awkwardly surprised that the supervision of the Labour Inspectorate at this time is also the most up-to-date verification of the use or the possibility of preventive measures to prevent the spread of the coronary virus. But at the same time, as Minister, I think that in some ways this is pure in terms of prevention, which we are all doing together, is extremely important to keep the economy working, in the best possible condition.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Comrade Shisko, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u340	Thank you, Chairman. Look, Minister, I've been in here for almost three years and I've always advocated both ministers and secretaries of state. The ones who are preparing for you, they've prepared it as if they were going to see the kid in the ninth grade and told him to give me an answer. Sorry, it's not your fault, like I said. I'll tell you what's going to happen next. I was at the Labour Inspectorate a summer ago. Chief Inspector Jadranko Grlić is only a thorn above the lack of personnel, but he has no organisational and motivational solutions. Given how many personnel this government has already replaced, it would also be good to consider refreshing the labour inspectorate. Inspectors have been bragging that they've been at the inspectorate for 15 or 20 years. We should hire a younger staff who has experience in the economy and is motivated to work. Minister, you've been following the Inspectorate's report for a long time as a professional associate in the National Assembly. How pleased are you with their work or their efficiency and how many new inspectors will you hire in 2021, given what I just told you?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u342	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, honourable Member Shisko, for the additional question. Now we can argue about how or who or what the views of the inspectorate are. Of course, the situation is always such that something else can be optimized or improved. Maybe with respect to employment, human perfection. In the last two years, the Inspectorate's Human Resources Plan has already increased by an additional 15 jobs, with 91 inspectors employed at the end of 2019. However, on the other hand, the number of business entities controlled by the Labour Inspectorate is increasing from year to year. At the end of 2019, 220 thousand 236 business entities were registered in the business register. The inspectorate receives around 7 thousand applications annually – in 2019 7 000 215, by the end of September 7 thousand 190, so there will be more of these applications. Approximately 80% of them are excluded from the labour relationship control inspection. The content of applications is difficult. Inspectors are increasingly confronted with those who avoid inspection, and the involvement of lawyers in proceedings is often prolonged so that it takes more and more time to complete individual controls. But it is true that with some solutions we will try to help the Inspectorate for work. We have now received 10 quotas in the framework of the Joint Staff Plan for the Ministry of Labour, and from this we will also, according to our assessment, assist the Inspectorate if necessary. However, it is not only in the additional staff, but you yourself have found that, but also in the field in the process of matters, it is necessary to optimize so that the inspectors will be effective in responding quickly and that, as you said, they will also be able, professionally and efficiently, also energetically, to remedy violations with some authority and also to prevent them in the field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Shisko, would you like to make a procedural proposal? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u344	Thank you, Chairman. Following Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the State Assembly hold a debate on the Minister's response. But since I still have some time, it's actually true, and we can talk about the inspectorate not going out on the field. But if he goes to the company, it's gonna have to be a check-in. And that's what we all know in here, even employees know how to say, if the applications are coming and the inspector visits the company, the next day those employees will be waiting for the book. And that's the problem. It's the easiest thing to do for an inspector. Inspectors, when they go for masks, see if there's a lot of distance, if they're disinfected on the table, if the right prices are on the articles. But if the worker doesn't get the regression, like I said in the first place, he won't go to see it. Work is also done for more than 184 hours. We know cases. But the workers don't want to report it because they know what's gonna happen to them. The union then comes to our house, shut down the stores on Sundays, and take care of the workers there when they're being laid off for overtime, and don't take care of the union. I think in this country, both on the left and on the right hand side, we're going to have to take a little look at where these problems are. Because, as we discussed, for 2019, when it is legally stipulated that the regression must be paid by 1 November, but today we are in mid-October 2020, the regression has not been paid to another 60,000 people. That's a shame. And here the inspectorate does not seem to be doing its job. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u345	Thank you very much. I would like to warn the last debater that, in the case of a procedural proposal, an explanation of the procedural proposal is made, but not a substantive discussion. Your question, my dear fellow, will be decided on Wednesday, 21 October 2020, in the framework of the votes. There is still the last one to ask the question. This is Željko Cigler, who will question the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac and the Minister of Environment and Space Mag. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u346	Thank you. Your Honor! Dear Minister Jernej Vrtovec! Publications in the media and presentations of the planned co-incineration of alternative fuels, that is waste and hazardous waste, in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica resilient public resistance is being softened, particularly the directly environmental and health-affected population from Šostjanje and Velenje. On the website of the Ministry of Energy, too, we have not observed that the Termoelectric power plant of Šostanj would request the addition or modification of an energy permit allowing for the moment a giant lignite with up to 10% of the mixed Indonesian coal. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Wrotec: Are the National Assembly and the Government aware of the efforts made by Holdinga Slovenski Power Plants to incinerate waste already in such an ecologically degraded Shale Valley? It should be noted that degraded environments should not be further burdened by environmental burdens under legislation, but that the degraded area should first be burdened with excessive environmental impacts, only then can it be adequately affected by legislation under European directives and the Environmental Protection Act. It is Article 24 of this Act and related articles. Next question: Has the thermal power plant Šostanj, for the first time, already been issued an administrative act under Article 52 of the Energy Act for the use of the new energy efficiency, secondly, the spatial situation of the environmental burden with the emissions from the power plant, thirdly, the estimated new risks in the environmental impact report and the revised building permit obtained for this purpose, all in line with the definitions of the overall environmental impact assessment of the procedure for the location of the Šostanj Termoelectrica Power Plant and the comprehensive environmental impact assessment of the procedure for the municipal space act of the municipality of Šostjanj? We would like to point out that changes to the building permit for the use of the Co-incineration Thermoelectric Power Plant should be subject to an integrated procedure under the EEA Directive. Next, Minister Andrej Vizjak. At the recent meeting of experts on waste management in Moravian spas, the profession to which you normally refer estimated that around 180,000 tonnes of waste per year is produced for alternative energy in the whole country. The Celje incineration plant consumes 23,000, which leaves 157 000, which is not enough for the planned combustion of the Šostanj incineration plant, which plans to burn 165 thousand tons of waste annually. The section further proposes several smaller regionally distributed incinerators. This would further reduce the environmental burden by transporting waste to remote incinerators or co-incineration plants. When will your ministry cut off the unreasonable use of public funds at the Termoelectrica Šostanj with the only reasonable decision on the location of regional incinerators, as proposed by the profession? Does the possible co-incineration of waste in TES make sense with the planned construction of several waste incinerators in Slovenia and what are the calculations of feasibility studies, rationality and acceptability of co-incinerations in TES?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr. Vrtovec, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u348	Thank you very much. To the extent possible, alternative fuels, due to the specific technological requirements of devices in the TES, should actually be used, they must reply to the TES because this is not within the competence of the Ministry I run. Whether the planned project of co-incineration of alternative solid fuels is economically acceptable for the TES, they must also assess it for themselves. Whether such activities would exacerbate the current environmental situation in the Salek Valley should be checked in the process of producing the report primarily on the environment. If the forecast is to be realized in order to plan what you say, the co-incineration reduces the negative effects on the environment, then we believe that this needs to be supported. But, look, these are things that don't belong in our work circle, but in the work circle that we've talked about before, someone else. So, finally, if the forecast is realized that the planned co-incineration could reduce the negative impact on the environment, then in our opinion this is to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u349	Thank you very much. There's still magic in the word. A visor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u350	Thank you very much. At the Ministry of the Environment or at the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, we are aware of the interest of the Termoelectric power plant Šostjanj in making adjustments that would allow them to use waste materials in addition to coals, while changing the environmental permit. I would like to stress here that such a change or adaptation requires a new environmental authorisation. To this end, the Czech Power Plant has carried out an environmental impact assessment of the planned SRF replacement fuel co-incineration from non-hazardous waste, stressing the non-hazardous. The application for environmental consent is also submitted. In this respect, Arso is in charge of a concrete procedure. In accordance with Slovenian and European legislation, it will be possible for the public, civil initiatives and all other stakeholders to participate or participate. However, it is my opinion that the key and professional question is whether these additional burdens, if any, would actually cause a deterioration of the environment or not. This is an expert question, this is not a political issue. However, I am aware of what you have pointed out that social acceptability, which can also be a completely emotional thing that is not based on data that is not based on arguments, is also worth taking into account, and should be taken into account in such projects. Let me just say that the concept of the Ministry of the Environment regarding the establishment of thermal waste treatment plants is different. Based on what you have also highlighted on regional devices of a smaller scale.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u352	Mr Andrej Vizjak, Minister, are you aware that the current co-incineration is technologically inappropriate without the relatively expensive upgrade of the thermoelectric power plant of Šostanj. Secondly, after the warnings we received, Thermal Power Plant Šostanj does not even have an energy permit for the use of an alternative energy source, which you have just told me in part. Probably not even an environmental permit. That's what you told me was happening. And if that's true, as I say, all procedures without legal basis are conducted, it's illegal. When Mr Vrtovec told me that how the co-conspirator is concerned is economically worth it. I must say, in Lafarg, in the Bellies, they virtually stopped making cement when they were prevented from burning hazardous waste. Dangerous waste is paid by those who deliver it to those who smoke it. In short, it is a profitable business and the creation of extra profits at the expense of co-incinerations that send into the air carcinogens dangerous substances, in particular mercury and some other carcinogens that seriously harm the environment and human health. The environment in the Shaleska Valley is health and environmentalally degraded. And such an intervention, this is a co-incineration that is clearly known, even after the experiences of Anhoveg, will further degrade the ecological and health-related area that has already been severely affected. Dearly noted, I would also like to inform you that when the survey was carried out in Šostjanje and Velenje, a strong majority of the population opposes the possibility of co-incineration of the Šostanj Termoelectricarium, thereby practically damaging health and indirectly by ecological degradation, killing people in this area of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u353	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, the supplementary question is intended exclusively for the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Visiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u354	Thank you very much. I don't have the information that the Shoštanj thermal power plant is already burning these wastes. They are in the process of obtaining environmental consent. Therefore, it is difficult to talk about intentions without legal basis. The intentions have a legal basis. They may apply for an amendment or for an environmental agreement. And they also did so on the basis of a preliminary report on environmental impacts. In addition to technical solutions, the report on environmental impacts should take into account, in view of the content prescribed, the assessment of environmental impacts, as well as the mitigation measures to control these impacts, that they are not essential. To talk about how inappropriate it is without an upgrade without knowing the report on environmental impacts and all the mitigating measures, speaking in mind. I propose that you also cooperate as a Member in the context of public hearings, because before the environmental consensus is issued, now the role is only in the verification of the Ars, and the public will be invited to participate. It is very difficult for me to comment on this procedure, which is in progress, as appropriate or inappropriate. I am simply explaining that there will be an appropriate space for professional discussion on the subject of the environmental and human impacts of this facility at the time of public disclosure or at the time of formal processing of this application. I would point out once again that the intention of TES after the co-incineration of such wastes, which is essentially one relatively high quality fuel, does not coincide with the Ministry's view on how to manage this thermal treatment in particular of municipal waste packaging and the like. The quality of such waste packaging does not correspond to the input parameters foreseen by the TEC in its intended co-incineration. In fact, it is one more or less commercial move by the thermal power plant Šostjanj, which is not in the concept, and it will also be very difficult to participate in a public call by the Ministry of Environment and Space for thermal treatment in particular of this municipal waste packaging.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Mr President, I propose that the vote be taken on behalf of the State Assembly in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to say this that the analysis of waste co-incineration in Slovenia, especially in Anhove and Trblja, has shown that there is a significant deterioration of pollution here, such as incineration plants, because control of discharges is significantly less under control. Above all, this control of air and environment pollution is not carried out permanently throughout the year through the work of an independent commission. I therefore propose that the National Assembly speak on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2020, in the framework of the votes. With this, I interrupt the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue on Wednesday, 21. 10. When the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 21st meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
